********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with the information included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other documents we file with the SEC.  The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we have identified as material, but are not the only risks and uncertainties facing us.  Our business is also subject to general risks and uncertainties that affect many other companies, such as market conditions, economic conditions, geopolitical events, changes in laws, regulations or accounting rules, fluctuations in interest rates, terrorism, wars or conflicts, major health concerns including epidemics, natural disasters or other disruptions of expected business conditions.  Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business and financial statements, including our results of operations, liquidity, financial condition and stock price. 15 Business and Strategic Risks The COVID-19 pandemic has adversely impacted, and continues to pose risks to, certain elements of our business and our financial statements, the nature and extent of which are highly uncertain and unpredictable. Our global operations expose us to risks associated with public health crises, including epidemics and pandemics such as COVID-19.  The global spread of COVID-19 has led to unprecedented restrictions on, and disruptions in, business and personal activities, including as a result of preventive and precautionary measures that we, other businesses, our communities and governments are taking to mitigate the spread.  For example, many governments have issued “stay-at-home” orders which restrict business and personal activities, and many employers are requiring employees to work from home.  In addition to existing travel and activity restrictions, jurisdictions may continue to close borders, impose prolonged quarantines and further restrict travel and other activities.  The pandemic has caused a global recession of potentially extended duration. The direct impact of COVID-19 and the preventive and precautionary measures implemented as a result thereof have adversely affected, and are expected to continue to adversely affect, certain elements of our Company (including to a different degree our operations, commercial organizations, supply chains and distribution systems) and the future impact may be material, though the impact on our different businesses and the different elements of our businesses varies (please see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for a discussion of how COVID-19 impacted our results of operations and financial position in 2020).  Without limiting the foregoing, we have experienced and/or may in the future experience: • adverse impacts on customer orders and purchases and unpredictable reductions in demand for many of our products; • constraints on the movement of our products through the supply chain; • adverse impacts on our collections of accounts receivable, including delays in collections and increases in uncollectible receivables; • supply chain capacity constraints and price increases, including with respect to freight services; • adverse impacts on our workforce and/or key employees; • unpredictable increases in demand for certain products; and • increased cybersecurity attack activity. In an effort to optimize availability of needed medical and other supplies and products in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic, we may elect to or governments may require us or our customers to allocate manufacturing capacity (for example pursuant to the U.S. Defense Production Act (“DPA”)) in a way that adversely affects our financial condition and results of operations, results in differential treatment of customers and/or adversely affects our reputation and customer relationships.  For example, certain of our customers are or have been subject to DPA requirements relating to the production of COVID-19 related products and have required certain of our businesses to also comply with these requirements under our supply agreements.  Further, the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority (“BARDA”) of the U.S. government has agreed to finance an expansion of production capacity at one of our businesses for COVID-19 related products, and in connection therewith the business has committed certain of such incremental production capacity to the U.S. government pursuant to the DPA.  In addition, unpredictable increases in demand for certain of our products can exceed our capacity to meet such demand on a timely basis or at all, which can result in negative publicity and otherwise adversely affect our business and financial statements.  The accelerated development and production of products and services in an effort to address medical and other requirements as a result of the pandemic also increases the risk of regulatory enforcement actions, product defects or claims thereof.  In addition, the COVID-19 vaccines that are developed may not all use Danaher’s vaccine development/production solutions, and/or may use Danaher’s solutions to different degrees; and if the number of COVID-19 vaccines under development declines (for example because one or a limited number of vaccines emerges as the preferred solution) the demand for Danaher’s vaccine development/production solutions may decline. Danaher’s COVID-19 testing solutions may also not ultimately be the preferred testing solutions for COVID-19.  Any of these developments may adversely affect our business and financial statements. Although we successfully issued debt and equity in underwritten offerings in 2020, COVID-19 has led to disruption and volatility in the global capital markets, which has increased the cost of, and adversely impacted access to, capital (including in the commercial paper markets) and increased economic uncertainty.  There are no assurances that the commercial paper markets or the capital markets will be available to us in the future or that the lenders participating in our revolving credit facilities will be able to provide financing in accordance with their contractual obligations. 16 While the pandemic continues we expect to experience continued adverse impacts on our business and financial statements, which adverse impacts are unpredictable and may be material.  Even to the extent COVID-19 conditions begin to improve, the duration and sustainability of any such improvements will be uncertain and continuing adverse impacts and/or the degree of improvement may vary dramatically by geography and line of business.  The actions Danaher’s businesses take in response to any improvements in conditions may vary widely by geography and line of business and will likely be made with incomplete information; pose the risk that such actions may prove to be premature, incorrect or insufficient; and could have a material, adverse impact on our business and financial statements.  In addition, any restructuring activities we undertake in light of the COVID-19 impact may adversely affect our business and financial statements. Conditions in the global economy, the particular markets we serve and the financial markets may adversely affect our business and financial statements. Our business is sensitive to general economic conditions.  Slower economic growth in the domestic and/or international markets, actual or anticipated default on sovereign debt, volatility in the currency and credit markets, high levels of unemployment or underemployment, reduced levels of capital expenditures, changes or anticipation of potential changes in government trade, fiscal, tax and monetary policies, changes in capital requirements for financial institutions, government deficit reduction and budget negotiation dynamics, sequestration, austerity measures and other challenges that affect the global economy have in the past adversely affected, and may in the future adversely affect, the Company and its distributors, customers and suppliers, including having the effect of: • reducing demand for our products and services (in this Annual Report, references to products and services also includes software), limiting the financing available to our customers and suppliers, increasing order cancellations and resulting in longer sales cycles and slower adoption of new technologies; • increasing the difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and the risk of excess and obsolete inventories; • increasing price competition in our served markets; • supply interruptions, which could disrupt our ability to produce our products; • increasing the risk of impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets, and the risk that we may not be able to fully recover the value of other assets such as real estate and tax assets; • increasing the risk that counterparties to our contractual arrangements will become insolvent or otherwise unable to fulfill their contractual obligations which, in addition to increasing the risks identified above, could result in preference actions against us; and • adversely impacting market sizes and growth rates. If growth in the global economy or in any of the markets we serve slows for a significant period, if there is significant deterioration in the global economy or such markets or if improvements in the global economy do not benefit the markets we serve, our business and financial statements could be adversely affected. 17 We face intense competition and if we are unable to compete effectively, we may experience decreased demand and decreased market share.  Even if we compete effectively, we may be required to reduce the prices we charge. Our businesses operate in industries that are intensely competitive and have been subject to increasing consolidation.  Because of the range of the products and services we sell and the variety of markets we serve, we encounter a wide variety of competitors; refer to “Item 1. Business—Competition” for additional details.  In order to compete effectively, we must retain longstanding relationships with major customers and continue to grow our business by establishing relationships with new customers, continually developing new products and services to maintain and expand our brand recognition and leadership position in various product and service categories and penetrating new markets, including high-growth markets.  Our ability to compete can also be impacted by changing customer preferences and requirements (for example increased demand for products incorporating digital capabilities or more environmentally-friendly products and supplier practices) as well as changes in the way healthcare services are delivered (including the movement of some care from acute to non-acute settings and increased focus on chronic disease management).  Cost containment efforts by governments and the private sector, particularly in the healthcare industry, are also resulting in increased emphasis on products that reduce costs and improve efficiency and effectiveness.  In addition, significant shifts in industry market share have occurred and may in the future occur in connection with product problems, safety alerts and publications about products, reflecting the competitive significance of product quality, product efficacy and quality systems in our industry.  Our failure to compete effectively and/or pricing pressures resulting from competition may adversely impact our business and financial statements, and our expansion into new markets may result in greater-than-expected risks, liabilities and expenses.  In addition, the Company’s competitors and customers have from time to time introduced, and may in the future introduce, private label, generic or low-cost products that compete with the Company’s products at lower price points.  Competitors’ products can capture significant market share or lead to a decrease in market prices overall, resulting in an adverse effect on the Company’s business and financial statements. Our growth depends in part on the timely development and commercialization, and customer acceptance, of new and enhanced products and services based on technological innovation. We generally sell our products and services in industries that are characterized by rapid technological changes, frequent new product introductions and changing industry standards.  If we do not develop innovative new and enhanced products and services on a timely basis, our offerings will become obsolete over time and our business and financial statements will suffer.  Our success will depend on several factors, including our ability to: • correctly identify customer needs and preferences and predict future needs and preferences; • allocate our R&D funding to products and services with higher growth prospects; • anticipate and respond to our competitors’ development of new products and services and technological innovations; • differentiate our offerings from our competitors’ offerings and avoid commoditization; • innovate and develop new technologies and applications, and acquire or obtain rights to third-party technologies that may have valuable applications in our served markets; • obtain adequate intellectual property rights with respect to key technologies before our competitors do; • successfully commercialize new technologies in a timely manner, price them competitively and cost-effectively manufacture and deliver sufficient volumes of new products of appropriate quality on time; • obtain necessary regulatory approvals of appropriate scope (including with respect to medical device products by demonstrating satisfactory clinical results where applicable, as well as achieving third-party reimbursement); and • stimulate customer demand for and convince customers to adopt new technologies. If we fail to accurately predict future customer needs and preferences or fail to produce viable technologies, we may invest heavily in R&D of products and services that do not lead to significant revenue, which would adversely affect our business and financial statements.  Even when we successfully innovate and develop new and enhanced products and services, we often incur substantial costs in doing so, and our profitability may suffer.  In addition, promising new offerings may fail to reach the market or realize only limited commercial success because of real or perceived efficacy or safety concerns, failure to achieve positive clinical outcomes, uncertainty over third-party reimbursement or entrenched patterns of clinical practice.  Competitors may also develop after-market services and parts for our products which attract customers and adversely affect our return on investment for new products. 18 The health care industry and related industries that we serve have undergone, and are in the process of undergoing, significant changes in an effort to reduce (and increase the predictability of) costs, which can adversely affect our business and financial statements. The health care industry and related industries that we serve have undergone, and are in the process of undergoing, significant changes in an effort to reduce (and increase the predictability of) costs, including the following: • many of our customers, and the end-users to whom our customers supply products, rely on government funding of and reimbursement for healthcare products and services and research activities.  The PPACA, health care austerity measures in other countries and other potential healthcare reform changes and government austerity measures have reduced and may further reduce the amount of government funding or reimbursement available to customers or end-users of our products and services and/or the volume of medical procedures using our products and services.  For example, the Protecting Access to Medicare Act of 2014, or PAMA, introduced a multi-year pricing program for services payable under the Clinical Laboratory Fee Schedule (“CLFS”) that is designed to bring Medicare allowable amounts in line with the amounts paid by private payers.  It is still unclear whether and to what extent these new rates will affect overall pricing and reimbursement for clinical laboratory testing services, but to the extent our customers conclude that Medicare reimbursement for these services is inadequate, it can in turn adversely impact the prices at which we sell our products.  Other countries, as well as some private payors, also control the price of health care products, directly or indirectly, through reimbursement, payment, pricing or coverage limitations, tying reimbursement to outcomes or (in the case of governmental entities) through compulsory licensing.  Global economic uncertainty or deterioration can also adversely impact government funding and reimbursement. • governmental and private health care providers and payors around the world are increasingly utilizing managed care for the delivery of healthcare services, centralizing purchasing, limiting the number of vendors that may participate in purchasing programs, forming group purchasing organizations and integrated health delivery networks and pursuing consolidation to improve their purchasing leverage and using competitive bid processes to procure healthcare products and services.  Payors are also seeking to improve price predictability in an effort to mitigate exposure to future price increases. These changes as well as other impacts from market demand, government regulations, third-party coverage and reimbursement policies and societal pressures are changing the way healthcare is delivered, reimbursed and funded and have in the past and could in the future cause participants in the healthcare industry and related industries that we serve to purchase fewer of our products and services, reduce the prices they are willing to pay for our products or services, reduce the amounts of reimbursement and funding available for our products and services from governmental agencies or third-party payors, heighten clinical data requirements, reduce the volume of medical procedures that use our products and services, affect the acceptance rate of new technologies and products and increase our compliance and other costs.  In addition, we may be excluded from important market segments or unable to enter into contracts with group purchasing organizations and integrated health networks on terms acceptable to us, and even if we do enter into such contracts they may be on terms that negatively affect our current or future profitability.  All of the factors described above can adversely affect our business and financial statements. International economic, political, legal, compliance, social and business factors can negatively affect our business and financial statements. In 2020, approximately 61% of our sales were derived from customers outside the United States.  In addition, many of our manufacturing operations, suppliers and employees are located outside the United States.  Since our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to further penetrate markets outside the United States and increase the localization of our products and services, we expect to continue to increase our sales and presence outside the United States, particularly in the high-growth markets.  Our international business (and particularly our business in high-growth markets) is subject to risks that are customarily encountered in non-U.S. operations, including: • interruption in the transportation of materials to us and finished goods to our customers; • differences in terms of sale, including longer payment terms than are typical in the United States; • local product preferences and product requirements; • changes in a country’s or region’s political, social or economic conditions, such as the devaluation of particular currencies; • trade protection measures, embargoes and import or export restrictions and requirements; • unexpected changes in laws or regulatory requirements, including changes in tax laws; 19 • capital controls and limitations on ownership and on repatriation of earnings and cash; • the potential for nationalization of enterprises; • changes in local healthcare delivery, payment and reimbursement policies and programs; • limitations on legal rights and our ability to enforce such rights; • difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; • differing labor or employment regulations; • difficulties in implementing restructuring actions on a timely or comprehensive basis; • differing protection of intellectual property; and • greater uncertainty, risk, expense and delay in commercializing products in certain foreign jurisdictions, including with respect to product and other regulatory approvals. International business risks have in the past and may in the future negatively affect our business and financial statements. For example, in 2020 we generated approximately 12% of our sales from China.  Accordingly, our business and financial statements can be adversely influenced by political, economic, legal, compliance and social conditions in China generally.  Additionally, China’s government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing industrial policies, and it maintains control over China’s economic growth through setting monetary policy and determining treatment of particular industries or companies.  Further, considerable uncertainty exists regarding the long-term effects of the expansionary monetary and fiscal policies adopted by the central banks and financial authorities of some of the world’s leading economies, including the United States and China.  Uncertainty or adverse changes to economic conditions in China or the policies of China’s government or its laws and regulations can have a material adverse effect on the overall economic growth of China and can adversely affect our business and financial statements. In addition, our global operations expose us to risks associated with public health crises and epidemics, such as COVID-19, which could adversely impact our supply chains and distribution systems, reduce demand for our products and services, and otherwise adversely affect our business and financial statements. Our growth can suffer if the markets into which we sell our products and services decline, do not grow as anticipated or experience cyclicality. Our growth depends in part on the growth of the markets which we serve, and visibility into our markets is limited (particularly for markets into which we sell through distribution).  Our quarterly sales and profits depend substantially on the volume and timing of orders received during the fiscal quarter, which are difficult to forecast.  Any decline or lower than expected growth in our served markets could diminish demand for our products and services, which would adversely affect our business and financial statements.  Certain of our businesses operate in industries that may experience periodic, cyclical downturns.  In addition, in certain of our businesses demand depends on customers’ capital spending budgets as well as government funding policies, and matters of public policy and government budget dynamics as well as product and economic cycles can affect the spending decisions of these entities.  Demand for our products and services is also sensitive to changes in customer order patterns, which may be affected by announced price changes, marketing or promotional programs, new product introductions, the timing of industry trade shows and changes in distributor or customer inventory levels due to distributor or customer management thereof or other factors.  Any of these factors could adversely affect our business and financial statements in any given period. Certain of our businesses rely on relationships with collaborative partners and other third-parties for development, supply and marketing of certain products, potential products and technologies, and such collaborative partners or other third-parties could fail to perform sufficiently. We believe that for certain of our businesses, success in penetrating target markets depends in part on their ability to develop and maintain collaborative relationships with other companies.  Relying on collaborative relationships is risky because, among other things, our collaborative partners may (1) not devote sufficient resources to the success of our collaborations; (2) fail to obtain regulatory approvals necessary to continue the collaborations in a timely manner; (3) be acquired by other companies and terminate our collaborative partnership or become insolvent; (4) compete with us; (5) disagree with us on key details of the collaborative relationship; (6) have insufficient capital resources; and (7) decline to renew existing collaborations on acceptable terms.  Because these and other factors may be beyond our control, the development or commercialization of our products 20 involved in collaborative partnerships may be delayed or otherwise adversely affected.  If we or any of our collaborative partners terminate a collaborative arrangement, we may be required to devote additional resources to product development and commercialization or we may need to cancel some development programs, which could adversely affect our business and financial statements. Acquisitions, Divestitures and Investment Risks Any inability to consummate acquisitions at our historical rate and at appropriate prices, and to make appropriate investments that support our long-term strategy, could negatively impact our growth rate and stock price. Our ability to grow revenues, earnings and cash flow at or above our historic rates depends in part upon our ability to identify and successfully acquire and integrate businesses at appropriate prices and realize anticipated synergies, and to make appropriate investments that support our long-term strategy.  We may not be able to consummate acquisitions at rates similar to the past, which could adversely impact our growth rate and our stock price.  Promising acquisitions and investments are difficult to identify and complete for a number of reasons, including high valuations, competition among prospective buyers or investors, the availability of affordable funding in the capital markets and the need to satisfy applicable closing conditions and obtain applicable antitrust and other regulatory approvals on acceptable terms.  In addition, competition for acquisitions and investments has resulted and may result in higher purchase prices.  Changes in accounting or regulatory requirements or instability in the credit markets could also adversely impact our ability to consummate acquisitions and investments. Our acquisition of businesses, investments, joint ventures and other strategic relationships could negatively impact our business and financial statements. As part of our business strategy we acquire businesses, make investments and enter into joint ventures and other strategic relationships in the ordinary course, and we also from time to time complete more significant transactions; refer to MD&A for additional details.  For example, our acquisition of Cytiva in March 2020 is Danaher’s largest acquisition to date based on purchase price.  Acquisitions (including the acquisition of Cytiva), investments, joint ventures and strategic relationships involve a number of financial, accounting, managerial, operational, legal, compliance and other risks and challenges, including but not limited to the following, any of which could adversely affect our business and our financial statements: • businesses, technologies, services and products that we acquire or invest in sometimes under-perform relative to our expectations and the price that we paid, fail to perform in accordance with our anticipated timetable or fail to achieve and/or sustain profitability; • we from time to time incur or assume significant debt in connection with our acquisitions, investments, joint ventures or strategic relationships, which can also cause a deterioration of Danaher’s credit ratings, result in increased borrowing costs and interest expense and diminish our future access to the capital markets; • acquisitions, investments, joint ventures or strategic relationships can cause our financial results to differ from our own or the investment community’s expectations in any given period, or over the long-term; • pre-closing and post-closing earnings charges can adversely impact our results in any given period, and the impact may be substantially different from period-to-period; • acquisitions, investments, joint ventures or strategic relationships can create demands on our management, operational resources and financial and internal control systems that we are unable to effectively address; • we can experience difficulty in integrating cultures, personnel, operations and financial and other controls and systems and retaining key employees and customers; • we may be unable to achieve cost savings or other synergies anticipated in connection with an acquisition, investment, joint venture or strategic relationship; • we have assumed and may assume unknown liabilities, known contingent liabilities that become realized, known liabilities that prove greater than anticipated, internal control deficiencies or exposure to regulatory sanctions resulting from the acquired company’s or investee’s activities and the realization of any of these liabilities or deficiencies can increase our expenses, adversely affect our financial position or cause us to fail to meet our public financial reporting obligations; • in connection with acquisitions and joint ventures, we often enter into post-closing financial arrangements such as purchase price adjustments, earn-out obligations and indemnification obligations, which can have unpredictable financial results; 21 • as a result of our acquisitions and investments, we have recorded significant goodwill and other assets on our balance sheet and if we are not able to realize the value of these assets, or if the value of our investments declines, we are required to incur impairment charges; • we may have interests that diverge from those of our joint venture partners or other strategic partners or the companies we invest in, and we may not be able to direct or influence the management and operations of the joint venture, other strategic relationship or investee in the manner we believe is most appropriate, exposing us to additional risk; and • investing in or making loans to early-stage companies often entails a high degree of risk, and we do not always achieve the strategic, technological, financial or commercial benefits we anticipate; we may lose our investment or fail to recoup our loan; or our investment may be illiquid for a greater-than-expected period of time. The indemnification provisions of acquisition agreements by which we have acquired companies may not fully protect us and as a result we may face unexpected liabilities. Certain of the acquisition agreements by which we have acquired companies require the former owners to indemnify us against certain liabilities related to the operation of the acquired company before we acquired it.  In most of these agreements, however, the liability of the former owners is limited and certain former owners may be unable to meet their indemnification responsibilities.  We cannot assure you that these indemnification provisions will protect us fully or at all, and as a result we may face unexpected liabilities that adversely affect our business and financial statements. Divestitures or other dispositions could negatively impact our business, and contingent liabilities from businesses that we or our predecessors have disposed could adversely affect our business and financial statements. We continually assess the strategic fit of our existing businesses and may divest, spin-off, split-off or otherwise dispose of businesses that are deemed not to fit with our strategic plan or are not achieving the desired return on investment.  For example, in 2015, Danaher separated and split-off to Danaher shareholders the majority of its former communications business in a Reverse Morris Trust transaction with NetScout Systems, Inc. (the “Communications Disposition”), in 2016 Danaher separated and spun-off to Danaher shareholders its former Test & Measurement segment, Industrial Technologies segment (excluding the product identification businesses) and retail/commercial petroleum business (collectively known as Fortive Corporation) (the “Fortive Disposition”), and in 2019 Danaher consummated the separation and initial public offering (“IPO”) and subsequent split-off of its Dental segment, known as Envista Holdings Corporation (the “Envista Disposition”).  Transactions such as these pose risks and challenges that could negatively impact our business and financial statements.  For example, when we decide to sell or otherwise dispose of a business or assets, we may be unable to do so on satisfactory terms within our anticipated timeframe or at all, and even after reaching a definitive agreement to sell or dispose a business the sale is typically subject to satisfaction of pre-closing conditions which may not become satisfied.  In addition, divestitures or other dispositions can dilute the Company’s earnings per share, have other adverse financial, tax and accounting impacts and distract management, and disputes can arise with buyers.  In addition, we have retained responsibility for and/or have agreed to indemnify buyers against some known and unknown contingent liabilities related to a number of businesses we or our predecessors have sold or disposed.  The resolution of these contingencies has not had a material effect on our business or financial statements but we cannot be certain that this favorable pattern will continue. Potential indemnification liabilities pursuant to the Communications Disposition, the Fortive Disposition or the Envista Disposition could materially and adversely affect our business and financial statements. With respect to each of the Communications Disposition, the Fortive Disposition and the Envista Disposition, we entered into a separation agreement and related agreements to govern the separation and related transactions and the relationship between the respective companies going forward.  These agreements provide for specific indemnity and liability obligations of each party that can lead to disputes between us and the respective counterparty.  If we are required to indemnify any of the other parties under the circumstances set forth in these agreements, we may be subject to substantial liabilities.  In addition, with respect to the liabilities for which the other parties have agreed to indemnify us under these agreements, there can be no assurance that the indemnity rights we have against such other parties will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of the liabilities, or that such other parties will be able to fully satisfy their respective indemnification obligations.  It is also possible that a court could disregard the allocation of assets and liabilities agreed to between Danaher and such other parties and require Danaher to assume responsibility for obligations allocated to such other parties.  Each of these risks could negatively affect our business and financial statements. 22 We could incur significant liability if any of the Communications Disposition, the Fortive Disposition or the Envista Disposition is determined to be a taxable transaction. We have received opinions from outside tax counsel to the effect that each of the Communications Disposition, the Fortive Disposition and the Envista Disposition qualifies as a transaction that is described in Sections 355(a) and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code.  These opinions rely on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings regarding the past and future conduct of the companies’ respective businesses and other matters.  If any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are incorrect or not satisfied, our stockholders and we may not be able to rely on the respective opinion of tax counsel and could be subject to significant tax liabilities.  Notwithstanding the opinion of tax counsel, the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) could determine on audit that any such transactions are taxable if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the respective opinion.  If any such transaction is determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, our stockholders that are subject to U.S. federal income tax and we could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities. Operational Risks A significant disruption in, or breach in security of, our information technology systems or data or violation of data privacy laws can adversely affect our business and financial statements. We rely on information technology systems, some of which are provided and/or managed by third-parties, to process, transmit and store electronic information (including sensitive data such as confidential business information and personally identifiable data relating to employees, customers, other business partners and patients), and to manage or support a variety of critical business processes and activities (such as receiving and fulfilling orders, billing, collecting and making payments, shipping products, providing services and support to customers and fulfilling contractual obligations).  In addition, some of our remote monitoring products and services incorporate software and information technology that house personal data and some products or software we sell to customers connect to our systems for maintenance or other purposes.  These systems, products and services (including those we acquire through business acquisitions) can be damaged, disrupted or shut down due to attacks by computer hackers, computer viruses, ransomware, human error or malfeasance, power outages, hardware failures, telecommunication or utility failures, catastrophes or other unforeseen events, and in any such circumstances our system redundancy and other disaster recovery planning may be ineffective or inadequate.  Attacks can also target hardware, software and information installed, stored or transmitted in our products after such products have been purchased and incorporated into third-party products, facilities or infrastructure.  Security breaches of systems provided or enabled by us, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to a vulnerability in our products or services, or security breaches of third party systems we rely on to process, store or transmit electronic information, can result in the misappropriation, destruction or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information or personal data belonging to us or to our employees, partners, customers, patients or suppliers.  Like most multinational corporations, our information technology systems and data have been subject to computer viruses, malicious codes, unauthorized access and other cyber-attacks and we expect the sophistication and frequency of such attacks to continue to increase.  Unauthorized tampering, adulteration or interference with our products may also adversely affect product functionality and result in loss of data, risk to patient safety and product recalls or field actions.  The attacks, breaches, misappropriations and other disruptions and damage described above can interrupt our operations or the operations of our customers and partners, delay production and shipments, result in theft of our and our customers’ intellectual property and trade secrets, result in disclosure of personally identifiable information, damage customer, patient, business partner and employee relationships and our reputation and result in defective products or services, legal claims and proceedings, liability and penalties under privacy laws and increased costs for security and remediation, in each case resulting in an adverse effect on our business and financial statements. In addition, our information technology systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain and enhance existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving legal and regulatory standards, evolving customer expectations, changes in the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to data and information systems, and the information technology needs associated with our changing products and services.  There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully maintain, enhance and upgrade our systems as necessary to effectively address these requirements.  Further, a greater number of our employees are working remotely in response to the COVID-19 pandemic and related governmental and community responses, which exposes us to greater cybersecurity risks. Any inability to maintain reliable information technology systems and appropriate controls with respect to global data privacy and security requirements and prevent data breaches can result in adverse regulatory consequences, business consequences and litigation.  As a global organization, we are subject to data privacy and security laws, regulations, and customer-imposed controls in numerous jurisdictions as a result of having access to and processing confidential, personal and/or sensitive data in the course of our business.  Please see “Item 1. Business—Regulatory Matters” for additional information.  Entities that are 23 found to be in violation of HIPAA as the result of a breach of unsecured patient health information, a complaint about privacy practices or an audit by the HHS, may be subject to significant civil, criminal and administrative fines and penalties and/or additional reporting and oversight obligations if required to enter into a resolution agreement and corrective action plan with HHS to settle allegations of HIPAA non-compliance.  Failure to comply with the requirements of GDPR and the applicable national data protection laws of the EU member states may result in fines of up to €20 million or up to 4% of the total worldwide annual turnover of the preceding financial year, whichever is higher, and other administrative penalties.  Several other countries such as China and Russia have passed, and other countries are considering passing, laws that require personal data relating to their citizens to be maintained on local servers and impose additional data transfer restrictions.  There is also a new, broad privacy law in California, the CCPA, which came into effect in January 2020.  The CCPA has some of the same features as the GDPR, and has already prompted several other states to consider enacting similar laws.  Government enforcement actions can be costly and interrupt the regular operation of our business, and data breaches or violations of data privacy laws can result in civil and criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties, any of which may adversely affect our business and financial statements.  In addition, compliance with the varying data privacy regulations across the United States and around the world has required significant expenditures and may require additional expenditures, and may require further changes in our products or business models that increase competition or reduce revenue. Defects and unanticipated use or inadequate disclosure with respect to our products or services, or allegations thereof, can adversely affect our business and financial statements. Manufacturing or design defects or “bugs” in, unanticipated use of, safety or quality issues (or the perception of such issues) with respect to, “off label” use of, or inadequate disclosure of risks relating to the use of products and services that we make or sell (including items that we source from third-parties) can lead to personal injury, death, and/or property damage and adversely affect our business and financial statements.  These events can lead to recalls or safety alerts, result in the removal of a product or service from the market and result in product liability or similar claims being brought against us.  Recalls, removals and product liability and similar claims (regardless of their validity or ultimate outcome) result in significant costs, as well as negative publicity and damage to our reputation that could reduce demand for our products and services.  Our business can also be affected by studies of the utilization, safety and efficacy of medical device products and components that are conducted by industry participants, government agencies and others.  Any of the above can result in the discontinuation of marketing of such products in one or more countries and give rise to claims for damages from persons who believe they have been injured as a result of product issues, including claims by individuals or groups seeking to represent a class. If we suffer loss to our facilities, supply chains, distribution systems or information technology systems due to catastrophe or other events, our operations could be seriously harmed. Our facilities, supply chains, distribution systems and information technology systems are subject to catastrophic loss due to fire, flood, earthquake, hurricane, power shortage or outage, public health crisis (including epidemics and pandemics) and the reaction thereto, war, terrorism, riot or other natural or man-made disasters, such as the COVID-19 pandemic and the damage caused to our facilities by Hurricane Maria in Puerto Rico in 2017.  If any of these facilities, supply chains or systems were to experience a catastrophic loss, it could disrupt our operations, delay production and shipments, result in defective products or services, diminish demand, damage customer relationships and our reputation and result in legal exposure and significant repair or replacement expenses.  The third-party insurance coverage that we maintain varies from time to time in both type and amount depending on cost, availability and our decisions regarding risk retention, and may be unavailable or insufficient to protect us against such losses. The manufacture of many of our products is a highly exacting and complex process, and if we directly or indirectly encounter problems manufacturing products, our business and financial statements could suffer. The manufacture of many of our products is a highly exacting and complex process, due in part to strict regulatory requirements.  Problems can arise during manufacturing for a variety of reasons, including equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, problems with raw materials or components, natural disasters and environmental factors, and if not discovered before the product is released to market can result in recalls and product liability exposure.  Because of the time required to approve and license certain regulated manufacturing facilities and other stringent regulations of the FDA and similar agencies regarding the manufacture of certain of our products, an alternative manufacturer is not always available on a timely basis to replace such production capacity.  Any of these manufacturing problems could result in significant adverse impacts to our business and financial statements. 24 If we cannot adjust our manufacturing capacity or the purchases required for our manufacturing activities to reflect changes in market conditions and customer demand, our business and financial statements may suffer.  In addition, our reliance upon sole or limited sources of supply for certain materials, components and services can cause production interruptions, delays and inefficiencies. We purchase materials, components and equipment from third-parties for use in our manufacturing operations, including metallic-based components, electronic components, chemistries, OEM products, plastics and other petroleum-based products.  Our profitability could be adversely impacted if we are unable to adjust our purchases to reflect changes in customer demand and market fluctuations, including those caused by seasonality or cyclicality.  During a market upturn, suppliers from time to time extend lead times, limit supplies or increase prices.  If we cannot purchase sufficient products at competitive prices and quality and on a timely enough basis to meet increasing demand, we may not be able to satisfy market demand, product shipments may be delayed, our costs may increase or we may breach our contractual commitments and incur liabilities.  Conversely, in order to secure supplies for the production of products, we sometimes enter into noncancelable purchase commitments with vendors, which can impact our ability to adjust our inventory to reflect declining market demands.  If demand for our products is less than we expect, we may experience additional excess and obsolete inventories and be forced to incur additional charges and our business and financial statements may suffer. In addition, some of our businesses purchase certain requirements from sole or limited source suppliers for reasons of quality assurance, regulatory requirements, cost effectiveness, availability or uniqueness of design.  If these or other suppliers encounter financial, operating or other difficulties or if our relationship with them changes, we might not be able to quickly establish or qualify replacement sources of supply.  The supply chains for our businesses can also be disrupted by supplier capacity constraints, bankruptcy or exiting of the business for other reasons, decreased availability of key raw materials or commodities and external events such as natural disasters, pandemic health issues, war, terrorist actions, governmental actions (such as trade protectionism) and legislative or regulatory changes.  Any of these factors can result in production interruptions, delays, extended lead times and inefficiencies. Because we cannot always immediately adapt our production capacity and related cost structures to changing market conditions, at times our manufacturing capacity exceeds or falls short of our production requirements.  Any or all of these problems can result in the loss of customers, provide an opportunity for competing products to gain market acceptance and otherwise adversely affect our business and financial statements. Adverse changes in our relationships with, or the financial condition, performance, purchasing patterns or inventory levels of, key distributors and other channel partners can adversely affect our business and financial statements. Certain of our businesses sell a significant amount of their products to or through key distributors and other channel partners that have valuable relationships with customers and end-users.  Some of these distributors and other partners also sell our competitors’ products or compete with us directly, and if they favor competing products for any reason they may fail to market our products effectively.  Adverse changes in our relationships with these distributors and other partners, reduction or discontinuation of their purchases from us or adverse developments in their financial condition, performance or purchasing patterns, can adversely affect our business and financial statements. The levels of inventory maintained by our distributors and other channel partners, and changes in those levels, also impacts our results of operations in any given period.  In addition, the consolidation of distributors and customers in certain of our served industries can adversely impact our business and financial statements. Our financial results are subject to fluctuations in the cost and availability of commodities that we use in our operations. As discussed in “Item 1. Business—Materials,” our manufacturing and other operations employ a wide variety of components, raw materials and other commodities.  Prices for and availability of these components, raw materials and other commodities have fluctuated significantly in the past.  Any sustained interruption in the supply of these items could adversely affect our business and financial statements.  In addition, due to the highly competitive nature of the industries that we serve, the cost-containment efforts of our customers and the terms of certain contracts we are party to, when commodity prices rise we are not always able to pass along cost increases through higher prices.  If we are unable to fully recover higher commodity costs through price increases or offset these increases through cost reductions, or if there is a time delay between the increase in costs and our ability to recover or offset these costs, our margins and profitability could decline and our business and financial statements could be adversely affected. Our restructuring actions can have long-term adverse effects on our business and financial statements. We have implemented significant restructuring activities across our businesses to adjust our cost structure, and we may engage in similar restructuring activities in the future.  These restructuring activities and our regular ongoing cost reduction activities (including in connection with the integration of acquired businesses) reduce our available talent, assets and other resources and 25 can slow improvements in our products and services, adversely affect our ability to respond to customers, limit our ability to increase production quickly if demand for our products increases and trigger adverse public attention.  In addition, delays in implementing planned restructuring activities or other productivity improvements, unexpected costs or failure to meet targeted improvements may diminish the operational or financial benefits we expect to realize from such actions.  Moreover, we may not succeed in implementing present or future restructuring activities or cost reduction activities.  Realizing the anticipated benefits from these initiatives, if any benefits are achieved at all, can take several years, and we may be unable to achieve our targeted cost efficiencies and profit margin improvements.  Additionally, we may have insufficient access to capital to fund investments in these strategic initiatives, or our business strategy may change from time to time, which could delay our ability to implement initiatives that we believe are important to our business.  Any of the circumstances described above could adversely impact our business and financial statements. Work stoppages, union and works council campaigns and other labor disputes could adversely impact our productivity and results of operations. Certain of our U.S. and non-U.S. employees are subject to collective labor arrangements.  We are subject to potential work stoppages, union and works council campaigns and other labor disputes, any of which could adversely impact our business and financial statements. Intellectual Property Risks If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property, or if third-parties infringe our intellectual property rights, we may suffer competitive injury or expend significant resources enforcing our rights.  These risks are particularly pronounced in countries in which we do business that do not have levels of protection of intellectual property comparable to the United States. Many of the markets we serve are technology-driven, and as a result intellectual property rights play a significant role in product development and differentiation.  We own numerous patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and other intellectual property and licenses to intellectual property owned by others, which in aggregate are important to our business.  The intellectual property rights that we obtain, however, are not always sufficiently broad and do not always provide us a significant competitive advantage, and patents may not be issued for pending or future patent applications owned by or licensed to us.  In addition, the steps that we and our licensors have taken to maintain and protect our intellectual property do not always prevent it from being challenged, invalidated, circumvented, designed-around or becoming subject to compulsory licensing.  In some circumstances, enforcement is not available to us because an infringer has a dominant intellectual property position or for other business reasons.  We also rely on nondisclosure and noncompetition agreements with employees, consultants and other parties to protect, in part, trade secrets and other proprietary rights.  There can be no assurance that these agreements adequately protect our trade secrets and other proprietary rights and will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information or that third-parties will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or other proprietary rights.  Our failure to obtain or maintain intellectual property rights that convey competitive advantage, adequately protect our intellectual property or detect or prevent circumvention or unauthorized use of such property and the cost of enforcing our intellectual property rights can adversely impact our business and financial statements. These risks are particularly pronounced in countries in which we do business that do not have levels of protection of corporate proprietary information, intellectual property, technology and other assets comparable to the United States.  The risks we encounter in such countries include but are not limited to the following: • Joint ventures that we participate in can include restrictions that could compromise our control over the intellectual property, technology and proprietary information of the joint venture; • As we expand our operations globally, increasing amounts of our data, intellectual property and technology is used and stored in countries outside the United States, and regulations in certain countries require data to be stored locally.  These factors increase the risk that such data, intellectual property and technology could be stolen or otherwise compromised; • Certain of our products have been counterfeited and we may encounter additional and/or increased levels of counterfeiting in the future; • Governmental entities may adopt regulations or other requirements that give them rights to certain of our intellectual property, technology and/or proprietary information, such as through compulsory licensing or foreign ownership restrictions or requirements; 26 • In certain countries, we do not have the same ability to enforce intellectual property rights as we do in the United States; • Governmental regulations relating to state secrecy or other topics limit our ability to transfer data or technology out of certain jurisdictions; and • Risks, costs and challenges of operating in a particular jurisdiction can result in a decision to relocate or divert operations to a different jurisdiction, potentially at higher cost. Any of these risks can adversely impact our business and financial statements.  Refer to “—International economic, political, legal, compliance, social and business factors could negatively affect our financial statements” for a discussion of additional risks relating to our international operations. Third-parties from time to time claim that we are infringing or misappropriating their intellectual property rights and we could suffer significant litigation expenses, losses or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling products or services. From time to time, we receive notices from third parties alleging intellectual property infringement or misappropriation of third parties’ intellectual property and cannot be certain that the conduct of our business does not and will not infringe or misappropriate the intellectual property rights of others.  Disputes or litigations regarding intellectual property can be costly and time-consuming to defend due to the complexity of many of our technologies and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation.  Our intellectual property portfolio may not be useful in asserting a counterclaim, or negotiating a license, in response to a claim of infringement or misappropriation.  In addition, as a result of such claims of infringement or misappropriation, we could lose our rights to critical technology, be unable to license critical technology or sell critical products and services, be required to pay substantial damages or license fees with respect to the infringed rights, be required to license technology or other intellectual property rights from others, be required to cease marketing, manufacturing or using certain products or be required to redesign, re-engineer or re-brand our products at substantial cost, any of which could adversely impact our business and financial statements.  Third-party intellectual property rights may also make it more difficult or expensive for us to meet market demand for particular product or design innovations.  When we are required to seek licenses under patents or other intellectual property rights of others, we are not always able to acquire these licenses on acceptable terms, if at all.  Even if we successfully defend against claims of infringement or misappropriation, we may incur significant costs and diversion of management attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business and financial statements. The U.S. government has certain rights to use and disclose some of the intellectual property that we license and could exclusively license it to a third-party if we fail to achieve practical application of the intellectual property. Certain technology licensed by us under agreements with third-party licensors is subject to government rights.  Government rights in inventions conceived or reduced to practice under a government-funded program can include a nonexclusive, royalty-free worldwide license to practice or have practiced such inventions for any governmental purpose.  In addition, the U.S. government has the right to require us or our licensors (as applicable) to grant licenses which would be exclusive under any of such inventions to a third-party if they determine that: (1) adequate steps have not been taken to commercialize such inventions in a particular field of use; (2) such action is necessary to meet public health or safety needs; or (3) such action is necessary to meet requirements for public use under federal regulations.  Further, the government rights include the right to use and disclose, without limitation, technical data relating to licensed technology that was developed in whole or in part at government expense. Financial and Tax Risks Our outstanding debt has increased significantly as a result of the Cytiva Acquisition, and we may incur additional debt in the future.  Our existing and future indebtedness may limit our operations and our use of our cash flow and negatively impact our credit ratings; and any failure to comply with the covenants that apply to our indebtedness could adversely affect our business and financial statements. As of December 31, 2020, we had approximately $21.2 billion in outstanding indebtedness.  In addition, we had the ability to incur approximately $4.4 billion of additional indebtedness in direct borrowings or under our outstanding commercial paper facilities based on the amounts available under our credit facilities which were not being used to backstop outstanding commercial paper balances.  Our debt level and related debt service obligations (as well as the dividend obligations pursuant to our Series A and Series B Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock (“MCPS”)) can have negative consequences, including (1) requiring us to dedicate significant cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our debt (or dividends on our MCPS), which reduces the funds we have available for other purposes such as acquisitions and other investments; (2) reducing our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and market conditions; and (3) exposing us to interest rate risk since a portion of our debt obligations are at variable rates. 27 If our credit ratings are downgraded or put on watch for a potential downgrade, we may not be able to sell additional debt securities or borrow money in the amounts, at the times or interest rates or upon the more favorable terms and conditions that might be available if our current credit ratings were maintained. Our credit facilities and long-term debt obligations also impose certain restrictions on us, including certain restrictions on our ability to incur liens on our assets, and a requirement under our credit facilities to maintain a consolidated leverage ratio (the ratio of consolidated indebtedness to consolidated indebtedness plus shareholders’ equity) of 0.65 to 1.0 or less.  If we breach any of these restrictions and cannot obtain a waiver from the lenders on favorable terms, subject to applicable cure periods, the outstanding indebtedness (and any other indebtedness with cross-default provisions) could be declared immediately due and payable, which would adversely affect our business and financial statements (including without limitation our liquidity).  If we add new debt in the future, the risks described above would increase. We may be required to recognize impairment charges for our goodwill and other intangible assets. As of December 31, 2020, the net carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets totaled approximately $56.7 billion.  In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we periodically assess these assets to determine if they are impaired.  Significant negative industry or economic trends, disruptions to our business, inability to effectively integrate acquired businesses, unexpected significant changes or planned changes in use of our assets, changes in the structure of our business, divestitures, market capitalization declines, or increases in associated discount rates can impair our goodwill and other intangible assets.  Any charges relating to such impairments adversely affect our financial statements in the periods recognized. Foreign currency exchange rates can adversely affect our financial statements. Sales and purchases in currencies other than the U.S. dollar expose us to fluctuations in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar and may adversely affect our financial statements.  Increased strength of the U.S. dollar increases the effective price of our products sold in U.S. dollars into other countries, which can from time to time require us to lower our prices or adversely affect sales to the extent we do not increase local currency prices.  Decreased strength of the U.S. dollar adversely affects the cost of materials, products and services we purchase overseas.  Sales and expenses of our non-U.S. businesses are also translated into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes and the strengthening of the U.S. dollar generally results in unfavorable translation effects.  In addition, certain of our businesses invoice customers in a currency other than the business’ functional currency, and movements in the invoiced currency relative to the functional currency can also result in unfavorable translation effects.  The Company also faces exchange rate risk from its investments in subsidiaries owned and operated in foreign countries. Changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities or assessments can affect our profitability.  In addition, audits by tax authorities can result in additional tax payments for prior periods. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and in numerous non-U.S. jurisdictions.  On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“TCJA”) was enacted.  The TCJA significantly revised the U.S. federal corporate income tax law by, among other things, lowering the corporate income tax rate to 21.0%, implementing a quasi-territorial tax system, and imposing a one-time tax on unremitted cumulative non-U.S. earnings of foreign subsidiaries (“Transition Tax”). Due to the potential for changes to tax laws and regulations or changes to the interpretation thereof (including regulations and interpretations pertaining to the TCJA), the ambiguity of tax laws and regulations, the subjectivity of factual interpretations, the complexity of our intercompany arrangements, uncertainties regarding the geographic mix of earnings in any particular period, and other factors, our estimates of effective tax rate and income tax assets and liabilities can be incorrect and our financial statements could be adversely affected; please refer to MD&A for a discussion of additional factors that may adversely affect our effective tax rate and decrease our profitability in any period.  The impact of the factors referenced in the preceding sentence may be substantially different from period-to-period. In addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits by U.S. federal, state and local tax authorities and by non-U.S. tax authorities, such as the audits described in MD&A and the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements.  If audits result in payments or assessments different from our reserves, our results can include unfavorable adjustments to our tax liabilities and our financial statements can be adversely affected.  For example, the Danish tax authority’s assessments purporting to impose withholding tax relating to interest accrued in Denmark on historical borrowings from certain of the Company’s subsidiaries (further discussed in MD&A and the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements) could take many years to resolve and could ultimately result in a material, adverse impact to the Company’s financial statements, including its cash flows and effective tax rates.  Any further significant changes to the tax system in the United States or in other jurisdictions (including changes in the taxation of international income as further described below) could also adversely affect our financial statements.  Please see MD&A and the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements for a further discussion of the Company’s tax audits. 28 Changes in tax law relating to multinational corporations could adversely affect our tax position. The U.S. Congress, government agencies in non-U.S. jurisdictions where we and our affiliates do business, and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (“OECD”) have focused on issues related to the taxation of multinational corporations.  One example is in the area of “base erosion and profit shifting,” for which the OECD has released several components of its comprehensive plan that have been adopted and expanded by many taxing authorities to address perceived tax abuse and inconsistencies between tax jurisdictions.   As a result, the tax laws in the United States and other countries in which we do business could change on a prospective or retroactive basis, and any such changes could adversely affect our business and financial statements. Legal, political, and economic uncertainty surrounding the exit of the United Kingdom (“UK”) from the EU could have an adverse effect on our business and financial statements. The UK ceased to be a member state of the EU on January 31, 2020 (commonly referred to as “Brexit”), and the transition period provided for in the withdrawal agreement entered by the UK and the EU ended on December 31, 2020.  In December 2020, the UK and the EU agreed on a trade and cooperation agreement that applies provisionally until it is ratified by the parties to the agreement.  On December 31, 2020, the UK passed legislation giving effect to the trade and cooperation agreement, with the EU expected to formally adopt the agreement in the first half of 2021.  The trade and cooperation agreement covers the general objectives and framework of the relationship between the UK and the EU, including with respect to trade, transport, visas, judicial matters, law enforcement and security matters, and provides for continued participation in community programs and mechanisms for dispute resolution.  Uncertainties remain regarding the application of the terms of the trade and cooperation agreement and the other potential impacts of Brexit, such as the impact of new or different laws and regulations as the UK determines which EU laws to replace or replicate (including potentially new or different regulations affecting clearance or approval of products that are developed or manufactured in the UK), and trade and tax impacts as the UK negotiates its own tax and trade treaties with countries around the world.  The impacts from Brexit could add time and expense to the conduct of our business, delay regulatory approval of products, adversely impact the manufacturing or movement of products, adversely impact customer demand and otherwise adversely affect our business and financial statements.  As of December 31, 2020, the Company had eight manufacturing facilities in the UK and the Company’s net investment in property, plant and equipment in the UK was $214 million.  For the year ended December 31, 2020, less than 5% of our sales were derived from customers located in the UK, however, the impact of Brexit could also impact our business and financial statements outside the UK. Our defined benefit pension plans are subject to financial market risks that could adversely affect our financial statements. The performance of the financial markets and interest rates impact our defined benefit pension plan expenses and funding obligations.  Significant changes in market interest rates, decreases in the fair value of plan assets, investment losses on plan assets and changes in discount rates can increase our funding obligations and adversely impact our financial statements.  In addition, upward pressure on the cost of providing health care coverage to current employees and retirees can increase our future funding obligations and adversely affect our financial statements. Legal, Regulatory, Compliance and Reputational Risks Significant developments or changes in U.S. laws or policies, including changes in U.S. trade policies and tariffs and the reaction of other countries thereto, particularly China, can have an adverse effect on our business and financial statements. Significant developments or changes in U.S. laws and policies (including as a result of the new U.S. administration), such as laws and policies governing foreign trade, manufacturing, and development and investment in the territories and countries where we or our customers operate, or governing the health care system and drug prices, can adversely affect our business and financial statements.  For example, the previous U.S. administration increased tariffs on certain goods imported into the United States and trade tensions between the United States and China escalated, with each country imposing significant, additional tariffs on a wide range of goods imported from the other country.  The U.S. and China could impose other types of restrictions such as limitations on government procurement or technology export restrictions, which could affect our access to markets.   These factors have adversely affected, and in the future could further adversely affect, our business and financial statements. Our business and financial statements can be impaired by improper conduct by any of our employees, agents or business partners. We cannot provide assurance that our internal controls and compliance systems, including our Code of Conduct, always protect us from acts committed by employees, agents or business partners of ours (or of businesses we acquire or partner with) that violate U.S. and/or non-U.S. laws, including the laws governing payments to government officials, bribery, fraud, kickbacks and false claims, pricing, sales and marketing practices, conflicts of interest, competition, employment practices and workplace behavior, export and import compliance, economic and trade sanctions, money laundering and data privacy.  In particular, the 29 U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business, and we operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree.  Any such improper actions or allegations of such acts could damage our reputation and subject us to civil or criminal investigations in the United States and in other jurisdictions and related shareholder lawsuits, could lead to substantial civil and criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties and could cause us to incur significant legal and investigatory fees.  In addition, the government may seek to hold us liable for violations committed by companies in which we invest or that we acquire.  We also rely on our suppliers to adhere to our supplier code of conduct, and material violations of such code of conduct could occur that could have a material effect on our business and financial statements. Our businesses are subject to extensive regulation; failure to comply with those regulations could adversely affect our business and financial statements. In addition to the environmental, health, safety, health care, medical device, anticorruption, data privacy and other regulations noted elsewhere in this Annual Report, our businesses are subject to extensive regulation by U.S. and non-U.S. governmental and self-regulatory entities at the supranational, federal, state, local and other jurisdictional levels, including the following: • We are required to comply with various import laws and export control and economic sanctions laws, which may affect our transactions with certain customers, business partners and other persons and dealings between our employees and between our subsidiaries.  In certain circumstances, export control and economic sanctions regulations may prohibit the export of certain products, services and technologies.  In other circumstances, we may be required to obtain an export license before exporting the controlled item.  Compliance with the various import laws that apply to our businesses can restrict our access to, and increase the cost of obtaining, certain products and at times can interrupt our supply of imported inventory.  In addition, we sell and provide products and technology to third parties, such as agents, representatives and distributors, who may export such items to end-users, and if any of these third parties do not comply with applicable export or import laws we may incur liability.  In addition, from time to time, certain of our subsidiaries have limited business dealings in countries subject to comprehensive sanctions.  These business dealings represent an insignificant amount of our consolidated revenues and income but expose us to a heightened risk of violating applicable sanctions regulations.  We have established policies and procedures designed to assist with our compliance with such laws and regulations.  However, there can be no assurance that our policies and procedures have prevented and will prevent violations of these regulations and any violation can adversely affect our business and financial statements. • We also have agreements to sell products and services to government entities and are subject to various statutes and regulations that apply to companies doing business with government entities (less than 5% of our 2020 sales were made to the U.S. federal government).  The laws governing government contracts differ from the laws governing private contracts.  For example, many government contracts contain pricing and other terms and conditions that are not applicable to private contracts.  Our agreements with government entities are in some cases subject to termination, reduction or modification at the convenience of the government or in the event of changes in government requirements, reductions in federal spending and other factors, and we may underestimate our costs of performing under the contract.  In certain cases, a governmental entity may require us to pay back amounts it has paid to us.  Government contracts that have been awarded to us following a bid process can become the subject of a bid protest by a losing bidder, which could result in loss of the contract.  We are also subject to investigation and audit for compliance with the requirements governing government contracts. These are not the only regulations that our businesses must comply with.  The regulations we are subject to have tended to become more stringent over time and can be inconsistent across jurisdictions.  We, our representatives and the industries in which we operate are at times under review and/or investigation by regulatory authorities.  Failure to comply (or any alleged or perceived failure to comply) with the regulations referenced above or any other regulations can result in import detentions, fines, damages, civil and administrative penalties, injunctions, consent decrees, suspensions or losses of regulatory approvals, recall or seizure of products, operating restrictions, refusal of the government to approve product export applications or allow us to enter into supply contracts, disbarment from selling to certain governmental agencies or exclusion from government funded healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid or similar programs in other countries or jurisdictions, integrity oversight and reporting obligations to resolve allegations of non-compliance, disruption of our business, limitation on our ability to manufacture, import, export and sell products and services, loss of customers, significant legal and investigatory fees, disgorgement, individual imprisonment, reputational harm, contractual damages, diminished profits, curtailment or restricting of business operations, criminal prosecution and other monetary and non-monetary penalties.  Compliance with these and other regulations can also affect our returns on investment, require us to incur significant expenses or modify our business model or impair our flexibility in modifying product, marketing, pricing or other strategies for growing our business.  Our products and operations are also often subject to the rules of industrial standards bodies such as the International Standards Organization, and 30 failure to comply with these rules can result in withdrawal of certifications needed to sell our products and services and otherwise adversely impact our business and financial statements.  For additional information regarding these risks, refer to “Item 1. Business—Regulatory Matters.” We are subject to or otherwise responsible for a variety of litigation and other legal and regulatory proceedings in the course of our business that can adversely affect our business and financial statements. We are subject to or otherwise responsible for a variety of litigation and other legal and regulatory proceedings in the course of our business (or related to the business operations of previously owned entities), including claims or counterclaims for damages arising out of the use of products or services and claims relating to intellectual property matters, employment matters, tax matters, commercial disputes, breach of contract claims, competition and sales and trading practices, environmental matters, personal injury, insurance coverage, securities matters, fiduciary duties and acquisition or divestiture-related matters, as well as regulatory subpoenas, requests for information, investigations and enforcement.  We also from time to time become subject to lawsuits as a result of acquisitions or as a result of liabilities retained from, or representations, warranties or indemnities provided in connection with, businesses divested by us or our predecessors.  The types of claims made in lawsuits include claims for compensatory damages, punitive and consequential damages (and in some cases, treble damages) and/or injunctive relief.  The defense of these lawsuits can divert our management’s attention, we from time to time incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits, and we can be required to pay damage awards or settlements or become subject to equitable remedies that adversely affect our business and financial statements.  Moreover, any insurance or indemnification rights that we may have may be insufficient or unavailable to protect us against such losses.  Because most contingencies are resolved over long periods of time, new developments (including litigation developments, the discovery of new facts, changes in legislation and outcomes of similar cases), changes in assumptions or changes in the Company’s strategy in any given period can require us to adjust the loss contingency estimates that we have recorded in our financial statements, record estimates for liabilities or assets previously not susceptible of reasonable estimates or pay cash settlements or judgments.  Any of these developments can adversely affect our business and financial statements in any particular period.  We cannot assure you that our liabilities in connection with current and future litigation and other legal and regulatory proceedings will not exceed our estimates or adversely affect our financial statements and business.  However, based on our experience, current information and applicable law, we do not believe that it is reasonably possible that any amounts we may be required to pay in connection with litigation and other legal and regulatory proceedings in excess of our reserves as of December 31, 2020 will have a material effect on our business or financial statements. From time to time, we become aware through our internal audits and other internal control procedures, employees or other parties of possible compliance matters, such as complaints or concerns relating to accounting, internal controls, financial reporting, auditing or ethical matters or relating to compliance with laws.  When we become aware of such possible compliance matters, we investigate internally and take what we believe to be appropriate corrective action.  Internal investigations can lead to the assertion of claims or the commencement of legal or regulatory proceedings against us and adversely affect our business and financial statements. Certain of our businesses are subject to extensive regulation by the U.S. FDA and by comparable agencies of other countries, as well as laws regulating fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry and the privacy and security of health information.  Failure to comply with those regulations could adversely affect our business and financial statements. Certain of our products are medical devices and other products that are subject to regulation by the U.S. FDA, by other federal and state governmental agencies, by comparable agencies of other countries and regions, by certain accrediting bodies and by regulations governing hazardous materials and drugs-of abuse (or the manufacture and sale of products containing any such materials).  The global regulatory environment has become increasingly stringent and unpredictable.  Several countries that did not have regulatory requirements for medical devices have established such requirements in recent years, and other countries have expanded, or plan to expand, their existing regulations.  Please see “Item 1. Business—Regulatory Matters” for more information.  Failure to meet these requirements adversely impacts our business and financial statements in the applicable geographies. To varying degrees, these regulators require us to comply with laws and regulations governing the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, marketing, distribution and post-marketing surveillance of our products.  We cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain regulatory clearance (such as 510(k) clearance) or approvals for our new products or modifications to (or additional indications or uses of) existing products within our anticipated timeframe or at all, and if we do obtain such clearance or approval it may be time-consuming, costly and subject to restrictions.  Our ability to obtain such regulatory clearances or approvals will depend on many factors, for example our ability to obtain the necessary clinical trial results, and the process for obtaining such clearances or approvals could change over time and may require the withdrawal of products from the market until such clearances are obtained.  Even after initial regulatory clearance or approval, we are subject to periodic inspection by these regulatory authorities, and if safety issues arise we can be required to amend conditions for use of a product, such as 31 providing additional warnings on the product’s label or narrowing its approved intended use, which could reduce the product’s market acceptance.  We are also subject to various laws regulating fraud and abuse, research and development, pricing and sales and marketing practices, the privacy and security of health information as well as manufacturing and quality standards, including the federal regulations described in “Item 1. Business—Regulatory Matters.” Government authorities may conclude that our business practices do not comply with current or future statutes, regulations, agency guidance or case law.  Failure to obtain required regulatory clearances or approvals before marketing our products (or before implementing modifications to or promoting additional indications or uses of our products), other violations of laws or regulations, failure to remediate inspectional observations to the satisfaction of these regulatory authorities, real or perceived efficacy or safety concerns or trends of adverse events with respect to our products (even after obtaining clearance for distribution) and unfavorable or inconsistent clinical data from existing or future clinical trials can lead to FDA Form 483 Inspectional Observations, warning letters, notices to customers, declining sales, loss of customers, loss of market share, remediation and increased compliance costs, recalls, seizures of adulterated or misbranded products, fines, expenses, injunctions, civil penalties, criminal penalties, consent decrees, administrative detentions, refusals to permit importations, partial or total shutdown of production facilities or the implementation of operating restrictions, narrowing of permitted uses for a product, refusal of the government to grant 510(k) clearance, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, pre-market notification rescissions and other adverse effects referenced under the risk factor titled “Our businesses are subject to extensive regulation; failure to comply with those regulations could adversely affect our business and financial statements.”  Further, defending against any such actions can be costly and time-consuming and may require significant personnel resources.  Therefore, even if we are successful in defending against any such actions brought against us, our business may be impaired.  Ensuring that our internal operations and business arrangements with third parties comply with applicable laws and regulations also involves substantial costs. Our products are subject to clinical trials, the results of which may be unexpected, or perceived as unfavorable by the market, and could adversely affect our business and financial statements. As a part of the regulatory process of obtaining marketing clearance for certain new products and new indications for certain existing products, we conduct and participate in numerous clinical trials with a variety of study designs, patient populations and trial endpoints.  Unexpected or inconsistent clinical data from existing or future clinical trials, or a regulator’s or the market’s perception of this clinical data, can adversely impact our ability to obtain product approvals, our position in, and share of, the markets in which we participate and our business and financial statements. Off-label marketing of our products could result in substantial penalties. The FDA strictly regulates the promotional claims that may be made about approved or cleared products.  In particular, any clearances we may receive only permit us to market our products for the uses indicated on the labeling cleared by the FDA.  We may request additional label indications for our current products, and the FDA may deny those requests outright, require additional expensive performance or clinical data to support any additional indications or impose limitations on the intended use of any cleared products as a condition of clearance.  If the FDA or any other federal, state or foreign regulator determines that we have marketed our products for off-label use, we can be subject to exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs and the other adverse effects referenced under the risk factor titled “Certain of our businesses are subject to extensive regulation by the U.S. FDA and by comparable agencies of other countries, as well as laws regulating fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry and the privacy and security of health information.  Failure to comply with those regulations could adversely affect our business and financial statements.”  Any of these events could significantly harm our business and financial statements. Certain modifications to our products may require new 510(k) clearances or other marketing authorizations and may require us to recall or cease marketing our products. Once a medical device is permitted to be legally marketed in the United States pursuant to a 510(k) clearance, a manufacturer may be required to notify the FDA of certain modifications to the device (similar requirements apply in other jurisdictions). Manufacturers determine in the first instance whether a change to a product requires a new 510(k) clearance or premarket submission, but the FDA may review any manufacturer’s decision.  The FDA may not agree with our decisions regarding whether new clearances are necessary.  We have made modifications to our products in the past and have determined based on our review of the applicable FDA regulations and guidance that in certain instances new 510(k) clearances or other premarket submissions were not required.  We may make similar modifications or add additional features in the future that we believe do not require a new 510(k) clearance.  If the FDA disagrees with our determinations and requires us to submit new 510(k) notifications, we may be required to cease marketing or to recall the modified product until we obtain clearance, and we may be subject to civil and criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties and damage to our reputation. 32 Our operations, products and services expose us to the risk of environmental, health and safety liabilities, costs and violations that could adversely affect our business and financial statements. Our operations, products and services are subject to numerous U.S. federal, state, local and non-U.S. environmental, health and safety laws and regulations concerning, among other things, the health and safety of our employees, the generation, storage, use and transportation of hazardous materials, emissions or discharges of substances into the environment, investigation and remediation of hazardous substances or materials at various sites, chemical constituents in products and end-of-life disposal and take-back programs for products sold.  We cannot assure you that our environmental, health and safety compliance program (or the compliance programs of businesses we acquire) have been or will at all times be effective.  Failure to comply with any of these laws can result in civil and criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties and damage to our reputation.  In addition, we cannot provide assurance that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws will not exceed our estimates or adversely affect our business or financial statements. In addition, we from time to time incur costs related to remedial efforts or alleged environmental damage associated with past or current waste disposal practices or other hazardous materials handling practices.  We are also from time to time party to personal injury, property damage or other claims brought by private parties alleging injury or damage due to the presence of or exposure to hazardous substances.  We can also become subject to additional remedial, compliance or personal injury costs due to future events such as changes in existing laws or regulations, changes in agency direction or enforcement policies, developments in remediation technologies, changes in the conduct of our operations and changes in accounting rules.  For additional information regarding these risks, refer to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report.  We cannot assure you that our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances will not exceed our estimates or adversely affect our reputation and financial statements or that we will not be subject to additional claims for personal injury or remediation in the future based on our past, present or future business activities.  However, based on the information we currently have we do not believe that it is reasonably possible that any amounts we may be required to pay in connection with environmental matters in excess of our reserves as of December 31, 2020 will have a material effect on our business or financial statements. Changes in governmental regulations can reduce demand for our products or services or increase our expenses. We compete in markets in which we and our customers must comply with supranational, federal, state, local and other jurisdictional regulations, such as regulations governing health and safety, the environment, food and drugs, privacy and electronic communications.  We develop, configure and market our products and services to meet customer needs created by these regulations.  These regulations are complex, change frequently, have tended to become more stringent over time and may be inconsistent across jurisdictions.  Any significant change in any of these regulations (or in the interpretation or application thereof) can reduce demand for, increase our costs of producing or delay the introduction of new or modified products and services, or restrict our existing activities, products and services.  For example, a number of our products and services are marketed to the pharmaceutical and related industries for use in discovering and developing drugs and therapies.  Changes in the U.S. FDA’s regulation of the drug discovery and development process can have an adverse effect on the demand for these products and services.  In addition, in certain of our markets our growth depends in part upon the introduction of new regulations.  In these markets, the delay or failure of governmental and other entities to adopt or enforce new regulations, the adoption of new regulations which our products and services are not positioned to address or the repeal of existing regulations, can adversely affect demand.  In addition, regulatory deadlines can result in substantially different levels of demand for our products and services from period-to-period.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”) is designed to provide material information relevant to an assessment of Danaher’s financial condition and results of operations, including an evaluation of the amounts and certainty of cash flows from operations and from outside sources.  The MD&A is designed to focus specifically on material events and uncertainties known to management that are reasonably likely to cause reported financial information not to be necessarily indicative of future operating results or of future financial condition.  This includes descriptions and amounts of matters that have had a material impact on reported operations, as well as matters that are reasonably likely based on management’s assessment to have a material impact on future operations.  The Company’s MD&A is divided into five sections: • Overview • Results of Operations • Liquidity and Capital Resources • Critical Accounting Estimates • New Accounting Standards This discussion and analysis should be read together with Danaher’s audited financial statements and related Notes thereto as of December 31, 2020 and 2019 and for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2020 included in this Annual Report.  Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for 2018 is included in Item 7 of the Company’s 2019 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and should be referred to for information regarding this period. Unless otherwise indicated, all financial results in this report refer to continuing operations. OVERVIEW General Refer to “Item 1. Business—General” for a discussion of Danaher’s strategic objectives and methodologies for delivering long-term shareholder value.  Danaher is a multinational business with global operations.  During 2020, approximately 61% of Danaher’s sales were derived from customers outside the United States.  As a diversified, global business, Danaher’s operations are affected by worldwide, regional and industry-specific economic and political factors.  Danaher’s geographic and industry diversity, as well as the range of its products, software and services, help limit the impact of any one industry or the economy of any single country on its consolidated operating results.  The Company’s individual businesses monitor key competitors and customers, including to the extent possible their sales, to gauge relative performance and the outlook for the future. As a result of the Company’s geographic and industry diversity, the Company faces a variety of opportunities and challenges, including rapid technological development (particularly with respect to computing, automation, artificial intelligence, mobile connectivity, communications and digitization) in most of the Company’s served markets, the expansion and evolution of opportunities in high-growth markets, trends and costs associated with a global labor force, consolidation of the Company’s competitors and increasing regulation.  The Company operates in a highly competitive business environment in most markets, and the Company’s long-term growth and profitability will depend in particular on its ability to expand its business in high-growth geographies and high-growth market segments, identify, consummate and integrate appropriate acquisitions and identify and consummate appropriate investments and strategic partnerships, develop innovative and differentiated new products and services with higher gross profit margins, expand and improve the effectiveness of the Company’s sales force, continue to reduce costs and improve operating efficiency and quality, and effectively address the demands of an increasingly regulated global environment.  The Company is making significant investments, organically and through acquisitions and investments, to address the rapid pace of technological change in its served markets and to globalize its manufacturing, research and development and customer-facing resources (particularly in high-growth markets) in order to be responsive to the Company’s customers throughout the world and improve the efficiency of the Company’s operations. The COVID-19 Pandemic The global spread of a novel strain of coronavirus (COVID-19) has led to unprecedented restrictions on, and disruptions in, business and personal activities, including as a result of preventive and precautionary measures that we, other businesses, our communities and governments have taken and are taking to mitigate the spread of the virus and to manage its impact.  The Company continues to actively monitor the pandemic and has taken and intends to continue taking steps to identify and mitigate 37 the adverse impacts on, and risks to, the Company’s business (including but not limited to its employees, customers, business partners, manufacturing capabilities and capacity, and supply and distribution channels) posed by the spread of COVID-19 and the governmental and community responses thereto.  The Company’s businesses have activated their business continuity plans in response to the pandemic, including taking steps in an effort to help keep our workforce healthy and safe, and are assessing and updating those plans on an ongoing basis.  As a result of COVID-19 the Company’s businesses have modified certain of their respective business practices (including in many cases with respect to employee travel, employee work locations, and cancellation of physical participation in meetings, events and conferences), and the Company expects to take such further actions as may be required by government authorities or as determined to be in the best interests of our employees, customers and other business partners.  The Company has developed return-to-work protocols designed to help ensure the health and safety of its employees, customers and business partners, for its businesses to apply as and when return-to-work is legally permissible and deemed appropriate.  We are also working with our suppliers to understand the existing and potential future negative impacts to our supply chain and take actions in an effort to mitigate such impacts.  To date we have not experienced any significant supply chain disruptions.  Given that the prevalence of COVID-19 and the nature of the response thereto (including the degree to which restrictions are being relaxed or re-imposed) varies significantly by geography, the impact of the pandemic on the Company’s different business locations around the world at any given time also varies significantly. We are also deploying our capabilities, expertise and scale to address the critical health needs related to COVID-19.  We have developed and made available a diagnostic test for the rapid detection of COVID-19 and a diagnostic test that can detect antibodies in blood to confirm current or past exposure to COVID-19.  In addition, our businesses, including the recently acquired Cytiva business (the Cytiva Acquisition is described below), are providing critical support to firms that are developing and producing vaccines for COVID-19, among other support.  Cytiva, net of the product line divestitures required for regulatory approval of the acquisition, contributed approximately 1,800 basis points to the increase in the Company’s total sales in 2020 compared to 2019.  We estimate that COVID-19 related demand contributed between approximately 700 to 750 basis points to the Company’s core sales growth including Cytiva in 2020 compared to 2019 (for the definition of “core sales including Cytiva,” refer to “—Results of Operations” below).  As and to the extent the COVID-19 pandemic subsides we expect the demand for products and services related to COVID-19 will also subside.  As further discussed below, while COVID-19 has positively impacted revenues for certain of our businesses, the pandemic and response thereto had a material negative impact on revenues and profitability in other of our businesses in 2020 and, while conditions overall improved sequentially from the second quarter through the end of 2020, the global demand for many of our products and services may remain depressed at least in the near-term if not longer. As noted below and subject to the assumptions discussed below, the Company expects core sales and core sales including Cytiva to grow in the first quarter of 2021 compared to the prior year.  However, due to the speed with which the COVID-19 situation continues to evolve, the global breadth of its spread, the range of governmental and community responses thereto and our geographic and business line diversity, its further impact on our business remains highly uncertain, but may be materially negative and will depend on future developments including but not limited to: • the duration of weaknesses in the macroeconomic environment and the timing and extent of recovery in the global demand for our products and services; • the pace at which medical providers resume patient care and testing that is not related to the COVID-19 pandemic, the timing of when research performed by laboratories and other institutions return to normal levels, and payment and funding dynamics related to the foregoing; and • the development and rate of adoption of the products we are offering to help address the pandemic and the effects thereof; competitive product launches and related pricing pressure; impacts from changes in the mix of our product offerings; and the degree to which COVID-19 testing solutions and vaccines are made available and utilized. For additional information on the risks of COVID-19 to the Company’s operations, refer to the “Item 1A—Risk Factors” section of this Annual Report. Business Performance Consolidated sales for the year ended December 31, 2020 increased 24.5% as compared to 2019.  Acquisitions, primarily Cytiva, contributed 18.0% to the increase in sales in 2020.  While differences exist among the Company’s businesses, on an overall basis, demand for the Company’s products  and services increased on a year-over-year basis in 2020 as compared to 2019.  This demand, together with the Company’s continued investments in sales growth initiatives and the other business-specific factors discussed below, contributed to year-over-year core sales growth of 6.5% and core sales growth including Cytiva of 9.5% (for the definition of “core sales” refer to “—Results of Operations” below).  From the date of Danaher’s acquisition of Cytiva on March 31, 2020 through December 31, 2020, Cytiva’s core sales grew more than 30% (compared to the comparable 2019 period when the Cytiva business was owned by General Electric Company (“GE”)) reflecting strength in 38 its served markets and its support in helping its customers develop and produce vaccines for COVID-19.  Geographically, both high-growth and developed markets contributed to year-over-year core sales growth during 2020.  Core sales in developed markets grew at a low-double digit rate in 2020 as compared to 2019 and were driven by North America and Western Europe.  Core sales in high-growth markets grew at a mid-single digit rate in 2020 as compared to 2019 as growth in China and other high-growth markets in the second half of 2020 more than offset declines in China during the first quarter due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic.  High-growth markets represented approximately 30% of the Company’s total sales in 2020. The Company’s net earnings from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2020 totaled approximately $3.6 billion, compared to approximately $2.4 billion for the year ended December 31, 2019.  Net earnings attributable to common stockholders for the year ended December 31, 2020 totaled approximately $3.5 billion or $4.89 per diluted common share compared to approximately $2.9 billion or $4.05 per diluted common share for the year ended December 31, 2019.  The increase in net earnings in 2020 as compared to 2019 was driven by net earnings from increased sales in the Company’s existing businesses, net earnings from Cytiva, the 2020 gain on sale of product lines, and the provision for uncertain tax positions recorded in the first quarter of 2019 discussed below in “—Results of Operations—Income Taxes”, partially offset by the 2019 gain on the disposition of Envista Holdings Corporation.  Refer to “—Results of Operations” for further discussion of the year-over-year changes in net earnings and diluted net earnings per common share for the year ended December 31, 2020. While the ultimate impact of COVID-19 on future periods is highly uncertain, the Company expects core sales and core sales including Cytiva to grow in the first quarter of 2021, assuming the negative impact of the pandemic does not increase in the United States and internationally.  Demand for instruments and consumables related to COVID-19-related testing capabilities as well as supporting customers in pursuit of new COVID-19-related treatments and vaccines are expected to continue to drive growth in 2021 while the performance of the Company’s other businesses is expected to continue to improve.  As discussed above, an increase of the COVID-19 infection rate and the re-imposition of government required restrictions could have a material negative impact on the Company’s financial statements. Acquisitions and Dispositions On March 31, 2020, the Company acquired the Biopharma business of GE’s Life Sciences division, now known as Cytiva, for a cash purchase price of approximately $20.7 billion (net of approximately $0.1 billion of acquired cash) and the assumption of approximately $0.4 billion of pension liabilities (the “Cytiva Acquisition”).  Cytiva is a leading provider of instruments, consumables and software that support the research, discovery, process development and manufacturing workflows of biopharmaceutical drugs.  Cytiva is included in the Company’s Life Sciences segment results beginning in the second quarter of 2020.  The acquisition has provided and is expected to provide additional sales and earnings growth opportunities for the Company’s Life Sciences segment by expanding the business’ geographic and product line diversity, including new product and service offerings that complement the Company’s current biologics workflow solutions. Refer to Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion regarding the Company’s acquisitions. Envista Disposition On September 20, 2019, Envista Holdings Corporation (“Envista”), a Danaher subsidiary at the time, completed an underwritten IPO of 30.8 million shares of its common stock, (the “IPO”), which represented 19.4% of Envista’s outstanding shares at the time of the offering, at a public offering price of $22.00 per share.  In connection with the completion of the IPO, through a series of equity and other transactions, the Company transferred its dental businesses to Envista (the “Separation”).  On December 18, 2019, Danaher completed the disposition of its remaining 80.6% ownership of Envista common stock through a split-off exchange offer, which resulted in Danaher’s repurchase of 22.9 million shares of Danaher common stock in exchange for the remaining shares of Envista common stock held by Danaher (the “Split-Off”).  The IPO, Separation and Split-Off are collectively referred to as the “Envista Disposition”.  As a result, the Company recognized a gain on the disposition of $451 million in the fourth quarter of 2019 equal to the difference between the fair value of the Danaher common stock tendered in the exchange offer and the carrying value of Envista common stock.  The accounting requirements for reporting Envista as a discontinued operation were met when the Split-Off was completed. Refer to Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. UK’s referendum decision to exit the EU (“Brexit”) For a discussion of Brexit and certain risks and implications thereof for the Company, refer to “Item 1A—Risk Factors”. 39 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS In this report, references to the non-GAAP measures of core sales (also referred to as core revenues or sales/revenues from existing businesses) and core sales including Cytiva refer to sales from continuing operations calculated according to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (“GAAP”) but excluding: • sales from acquired businesses (as defined below, as applicable); and • the impact of currency translation. References to sales or operating profit attributable to acquisitions or acquired businesses refer to sales or operating profit, as applicable, from acquired businesses recorded prior to the first anniversary of the acquisition less the amount of sales and operating profit, as applicable, attributable to divested product lines not considered discontinued operations prior to the first anniversary of the divestiture; provided that in calculating core sales including Cytiva, Cytiva’s sales (net of the sales of the Company product lines divested in 2020 to obtain regulatory approval to acquire Cytiva, or the “divested product lines”) (“Cytiva sales”) are excluded from the definition of sales attributable to acquisitions or acquired businesses.  The portion of revenue attributable to currency translation is calculated as the difference between: • the period-to-period change in revenue (excluding sales from acquired businesses (as defined above, as applicable)); and • the period-to-period change in revenue (excluding sales from acquired businesses (as defined above, as applicable)) after applying current period foreign exchange rates to the prior year period. As noted above, beginning with results for the second quarter of 2020, the Company also presents core sales on a basis that includes Cytiva sales.  Prior to the acquisition of Cytiva, Danaher calculated core sales solely on a basis that excluded sales from acquired businesses recorded prior to the first anniversary of the acquisition.  However, given Cytiva’s significant size and historical core sales growth rate, in each case compared to Danaher’s existing businesses, management believes it is appropriate to also present core sales on a basis that includes Cytiva sales.  Management believes this presentation provides useful information to investors by demonstrating the impact Cytiva has on the Company’s current growth profile, rather than waiting to demonstrate such impact 12 months after the acquisition when Cytiva would normally have been included in Danaher’s core sales calculation.  Danaher calculates period-to-period core sales growth including Cytiva by adding to the baseline period sales Cytiva’s historical sales from such period (when it was owned by GE), net of the sales of the divested product lines, and also adding the Cytiva sales to the current period. Core sales growth (and the related measure of core sales including Cytiva) should be considered in addition to, and not as a replacement for or superior to, sales, and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.  Management believes that reporting these non-GAAP financial measures provides useful information to investors by helping identify underlying growth trends in Danaher’s business and facilitating comparisons of Danaher’s revenue performance with its performance in prior and future periods and to Danaher’s peers.  Management also uses these non-GAAP financial measures to measure the Company’s operating and financial performance, and uses core sales growth as one of the performance measures in the Company’s executive short-term cash incentive program.  The Company excludes the effect of currency translation from these measures because currency translation is not under management’s control, is subject to volatility and can obscure underlying business trends, and excludes the effect of acquisitions (other than Cytiva sales, in the case of core sales growth including Cytiva)  and divestiture-related items because the nature, size, timing and number of acquisitions and divestitures can vary dramatically from period-to-period and between the Company and its peers and can also obscure underlying business trends and make comparisons of long-term performance difficult. Throughout this discussion, references to sales growth or decline refer to the impact of both price and unit sales and references to productivity improvements generally refer to improved cost efficiencies resulting from the ongoing application of DBS. 40 Core Sales Growth and Core Sales Growth Including Cytiva 2020 Compared to 2019 Total sales increased 24.5% on a year-over-year basis in 2020 primarily as a result of an increase in sales from acquired businesses, net of divestitures, primarily due to the acquisition of Cytiva, as well as an increase in core sales resulting from the factors discussed below by segment.  The impact of currency translation did not have a significant impact on reported sales on a year-over-year basis in 2020 as the negative impact of a stronger U.S. dollar in the first half of 2020 was offset by the favorable impact of the weakening of the U.S. dollar in the second half of 2020. Operating Profit Performance Operating profit margins were 19.0% for the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to 18.3% in 2019.  The following factors impacted year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons. 2020 vs. 2019 operating profit margin comparisons were favorably impacted by: • Higher 2020 core sales volumes, lower overall spending levels for business travel and other business activities as a result of the pandemic and incremental year-over-year cost savings associated with the continued productivity improvement initiatives taken in 2020 and 2019, net of incremental year-over-year costs associated with various new product development and sales, service and marketing growth investments - 170 basis points • The incremental accretive effect in 2020 of acquired businesses (including Cytiva), net of product line dispositions which did not qualify as discontinued operations - 125 basis points 2020 vs. 2019 operating profit margin comparisons were unfavorably impacted by: • Acquisition-related fair value adjustments to inventory and deferred revenue, and incremental transaction costs deemed significant and integration preparation costs, in each case related to the acquisition of Cytiva - 215 basis points.  The Company deems acquisition-related transaction costs incurred in a given period to be significant (generally relating to the Company’s larger acquisitions) if it determines that such costs exceed the range of acquisition-related transaction costs typical for Danaher in a given period. • Impairment charges related to trade names in the Environmental & Applied Solutions segment incurred in the third quarter of 2020 - 5 basis points • Impairment charges related to a facility in the Diagnostics segment and a trade name and other intangible assets in the Environmental & Applied Solutions segment incurred in the first quarter of 2020 - 5 basis points Business Segments Sales by business segment for the years ended December 31 are as follows ($ in millions): For information regarding the Company’s sales by geographical region, refer to Note 2 to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements. 41 LIFE SCIENCES The Company’s Life Sciences segment offers a broad range of instruments and consumables that are primarily used by customers to study the basic building blocks of life, including genes, proteins, metabolites and cells, in order to understand the causes of disease, identify new therapies, and test and manufacture new drugs and vaccines. Life Sciences Selected Financial Data Core Sales Growth and Core Sales Growth Including Cytiva 2020 Compared to 2019 Price increases in the segment contributed 1.0% to revenue growth on a year-over-year basis during 2020 as compared with 2019 and are reflected as a component of the change in core revenue growth. During 2020, total sales in the segment increased 52.0% primarily as a result of increased sales from acquisitions, net of divestitures and increased core sales resulting from the factors discussed below.  Currency exchange rates had a negligible impact on total sales in 2020 compared to 2019.  During 2020, increased demand for instruments and consumables used for COVID-19 related applications in the bioprocessing end-market was partially offset by lower demand in certain non-COVID-19 applications as a result of the response to the pandemic.  The Company saw lower demand for equipment late in the first quarter and in the second quarter as the COVID-19 pandemic spread around the world, academic research labs closed late in the first quarter of 2020 and customers deferred purchases of larger instruments.  The Company saw the gradual reopening of certain research labs later in 2020 as the pandemic subsided, although the recurrence of the pandemic in certain geographies has required certain labs to remain closed or operate at a lower capacity.  Core sales for filtration, separation and purification technologies increased across most major geographies on a year-over-year basis led by Western Europe, China and North America.  Demand for filtration, separation and purification technologies was led by COVID-19 related demand in the biopharmaceutical end-market, partially offset by weaker demand in the fluid technology and asset protection and aerospace end-markets.  Core sales of microscopy products decreased on a year-over-year basis across all major product lines, primarily due to lower demand in the medical, industrial, and life science research end-markets.  Geographically, demand for microscopy products decreased across all major geographies and end-markets, as shutdown measures to curb COVID-19 reduced year-over-year demand for equipment in particular.  Year-over-year core sales for flow cytometry and particle counting solutions increased in 2020 across all major geographies and most end-markets due to increased demand for genomic sample preparation consumables and automation products resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic.  Core sales of the business’ broad range of mass spectrometers declined on a year-over-year basis due to lower demand in the clinical and pharmaceutical end-markets in the first half of the year as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic.  Demand for mass spectrometer products improved sequentially throughout the second half of 2020.  Geographically, the decrease in demand was led by North America, Western Europe and China.  Core sales in the genomics consumables business increased across all major geographies and product lines, driven primarily by demand for primer and probe kits related to COVID-19 testing. 42 The acquisition of Cytiva on March 31, 2020 has provided, and is expected to continue to provide additional sales and earnings growth opportunities for the Company’s Life Sciences segment by expanding the business’ geographic and product line diversity, including new product and service offerings that complement the Company’s biologics workflow solutions.  Due to the proximity of the acquisition date to the end of the first quarter, there are no results of operations for Cytiva included in the Life Sciences segment in the first quarter of 2020.  Beginning in the second quarter of 2020, Cytiva is included in the Life Sciences segment results.  In the last nine months of 2020, Cytiva experienced significant increased demand across all major geographies and end-markets, driven by demand for instruments and consumables used in the research and development of COVID-19-related treatments and vaccines. Operating Profit Performance Operating profit margins declined 80 basis points during 2020 as compared to 2019.  The following factors impacted year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons. 2020 vs. 2019 operating profit margin comparisons were favorably impacted by: • Higher 2020 core sales volumes, lower overall spending levels for business travel and other business activities as a result of the pandemic, incremental year-over-year cost savings associated with the continued productivity improvement initiatives taken in 2020 and 2019 and the impact of foreign currency exchange rates in 2020, net of incremental year-over-year costs associated with various new product development and sales and marketing growth investments - 200 basis points • The incremental accretive effect in 2020 of acquired businesses, net of product line dispositions which did not qualify as discontinued operations - 200 basis points 2020 vs. 2019 operating profit margin comparisons were unfavorably impacted by: • Acquisition-related fair value adjustments to inventory and deferred revenue related to the acquisition of Cytiva - 480 basis points Depreciation and amortization increased during 2020 as compared to 2019 due primarily to the impact of the acquisition of Cytiva. DIAGNOSTICS The Company’s Diagnostics segment offers analytical instruments, reagents, consumables, software and services that hospitals, physicians’ offices, reference laboratories and other critical care settings use to diagnose disease and make treatment decisions. Diagnostics Selected Financial Data Core Sales Growth 43 2020 Compared to 2019 Price increases in the segment did not have a significant impact on sales growth on a year-over-year basis during 2020 as compared with 2019. During 2020, total sales in the segment increased 13.0%, driven by the factors discussed below related to core sales growth, net of a modest negative impact from currency exchange rates.  During 2020, increased demand for molecular diagnostics and acute care instruments and consumables to support the response to the COVID-19 pandemic was partially offset by lower demand for instruments and consumables in the clinical lab businesses as a result of shutdowns and restrictions related to the pandemic.  While patient volumes remained down year-over-year, the Company saw sequential improvement in patient volume from the second quarter of 2020 through the end of the year.  Core sales in the segment’s clinical lab business decreased on a year-over-year basis driven by lower demand across all major product lines.  Geographically, shutdown measures to curb COVID-19 reduced core laboratory testing volumes year-over-year across all major geographies.  Core sales increased in the molecular diagnostics business on a year-over-year basis in both developed and high-growth markets and contributed significantly to overall segment core sales growth.  The molecular diagnostics business experienced particularly strong growth in sales of instruments and consumables in the infectious disease product line driven by the development and commercialization of diagnostic test solutions for COVID-19.  Core sales in the acute care diagnostic business increased year-over-year primarily due to higher demand for blood gas instruments and consumables, driven in part by increased hospitalizations as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic.  Geographically, demand was strong across all major geographies.  Core sales in the pathology business grew year-over-year driven by increased demand for advanced staining consumables and pathology imaging products.  Geographically, core sales growth in the pathology business was led by North America and Western Europe, partially offset by soft demand in China. Operating Profit Performance Operating profit margins increased 350 basis points during 2020 as compared to 2019.  The following factors impacted year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons. 2020 vs. 2019 operating profit margin comparisons were favorably impacted by: • Higher 2020 core sales volumes, lower overall spending levels for business travel and other business activities as a result of the pandemic and incremental year-over-year cost savings associated with the continued productivity improvement initiatives taken in 2020 and 2019, net of incremental year-over-year costs associated with various new product development and sales and marketing growth investments and the impact of foreign currency exchange rates in 2020 - 355 basis points 2020 vs. 2019 operating profit margin comparisons were unfavorably impacted by: • Impairment charges related to a facility incurred in the first quarter of 2020 - 5 basis points Depreciation and amortization as a percentage of sales decreased during 2020 as compared with 2019 largely due to the impact of increased sales in 2020. ENVIRONMENTAL & APPLIED SOLUTIONS The Company’s Environmental & Applied Solutions segment offers products and services that help protect important resources and keep global food and water supplies safe.  The Company’s water quality business provides instrumentation, consumables, software, services and disinfection systems to help analyze, treat and manage the quality of ultra-pure, potable, industrial, waste, ground, source and ocean water in residential, commercial, municipal, industrial and natural resource applications.  The Company’s product identification business provides instruments, software, services and consumables for various color and appearance management, packaging design and quality management, packaging converting, printing, marking, coding and traceability applications for consumer, pharmaceutical and industrial products. 44 Environmental & Applied Solutions Selected Financial Data Core Sales (Decline) Growth 2020 Compared to 2019 Price increases in the segment contributed 1.5% to sales growth on a year-over-year basis during 2020 as compared with 2019 and are reflected as a component of the change in core revenue growth. During 2020, total sales in the segment decreased 2.0% primarily as a result of the factors discussed below related to core sales declines, as well as from the negative impact of currency exchange rates.  Core sales in the segment’s water quality businesses increased slightly during 2020 as compared with 2019 as increased demand for consumables was mostly offset by lower over-year demand for equipment as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic.  While demand for equipment decreased on a year-over-year basis in 2020, the Company saw sequential improvement in the demand for equipment from the second quarter of 2020 through the end of the year.  Year-over-year core sales in the analytical instrumentation product line increased in 2020, as increases in Western Europe and China more than offset decreases in North America and the Middle East.  In the business’ chemical treatment solutions product line, increased demand in the food and beverage, commercial and industrial, and power end-markets was offset by lower demand in the oil and gas, primary metals, transportation and chemical end-markets.  Geographically, year-over-year core sales in the chemical treatment solutions product line increased in North America and decreased in Latin America.  Core sales in the business’ ultraviolet water disinfection product line increased in 2020, as increased demand in North America and Western Europe more than offset weaker demand in the high-growth markets. Core sales in the segment’s product identification businesses decreased at a mid-single digit rate during 2020 as compared with 2019 driven by lower demand for equipment as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic.  While demand for equipment decreased on a year-over-year basis in 2020, the Company saw sequential improvement in the demand for equipment from the second quarter of 2020 through the end of the year.  Core sales in the marking and coding business decreased year-over-year, as increased demand in North America was more than offset by weaker demand in Western Europe and the high-growth markets.  Demand for marking and coding equipment decreased in 2020, offsetting increased demand for consumables in the food and beverage, consumer-packaged goods and pharmaceutical end-markets.  For packaging and color solutions products and services, core sales decreased year-over-year, driven by lower demand for equipment in North America, Western Europe and the high-growth markets.  The Company saw continued improvement in demand for packaging and color management solutions in the second half of 2020 compared to the first half of the year. Operating Profit Performance Operating profit margins declined 120 basis points during 2020 as compared to 2019.  Year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons were unfavorably impacted by: • Lower 2020 core sales volumes and incremental year-over-year costs associated with sales, service and marketing growth investments, net of lower overall spending levels for business travel and other business activities as a result of the pandemic, incremental year-over-year cost savings associated with the continued productivity improvement initiatives taken in 2020 and 2019 and the impact of foreign currency exchange rates in 2020 - 65 basis points 45 • Impairment charges related to trade names incurred in the third quarter of 2020 - 35 basis points • Impairment charges related to a trade name and other intangible assets incurred in the first quarter of 2020 - 5 basis points • The incremental net dilutive effect in 2020 of acquired businesses - 15 basis points COST OF SALES AND GROSS PROFIT The year-over-year increase in cost of sales during 2020 as compared with 2019 was due primarily to the impact of higher year-over-year sales volumes, including sales volumes from recently acquired businesses, and 2020 acquisition-related charges associated with fair value adjustments to inventory in connection with the Cytiva Acquisition, which increased cost of sales by $457 million in 2020. The year-over-year increase in gross profit margin during 2020 as compared with 2019 was due primarily to higher year-over-year sales volumes, including sales volumes from recently acquired businesses, and higher gross profit margins of recently acquired businesses, partially offset by the impact of 2020 acquisition-related charges associated with fair value adjustments to inventory and deferred revenue in connection with the Cytiva Acquisition, which adversely impacted gross profit margin comparisons by approximately 215 basis points in 2020 compared to 2019. OPERATING EXPENSES SG&A expenses as a percentage of sales declined 30 basis points on a year-over-year basis for 2020 compared with 2019.  The decline was driven by the benefit of increased leverage of the Company’s general and administrative cost base resulting from higher 2020 sales volumes, including sales volumes from recently acquired companies, incremental year-over-year cost savings associated with the continuing productivity improvement initiatives taken in 2020 and 2019, lower travel expenses in 2020 and lower year-over-year transaction costs related to the Cytiva Acquisition.  These decreases were partially offset by incremental year-over-year amortization charges which adversely impacted SG&A as a percentage of sales by approximately 160 basis points, primarily related to the Cytiva Acquisition in 2020, as well as impairment charges related to a facility in the Diagnostics segment and trade name and other intangible assets in the Environmental & Applied solutions segment incurred in the first and third quarters of 2020 and continued investments in sales and marketing growth initiatives. R&D expenses (consisting principally of internal and contract engineering personnel costs) as a percentage of sales declined in 2020 as compared with 2019, primarily due to lower R&D expenses as a percentage of sales in businesses recently acquired as well as the impact of sales growth rates in 2020 exceeding the spending growth related to the Company's new product development initiatives. 46 NONOPERATING INCOME (EXPENSE) The Company disaggregates the service cost component of net periodic benefit costs of noncontributory defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement employee benefit plans and presents the other components of net periodic benefit cost in other (expense) income, net.  These other components include the assumed rate of return on plan assets, partially offset by amortization of actuarial losses and interest and aggregated to a gain of $16 million, $12 million and $35 million as of December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively.  The Company’s net periodic pension cost for the year ended December 31, 2019 includes a settlement loss of $7 million ($6 million after tax or $0.01 per diluted common share) as a result of the transfer of a portion of its non-U.S. pension liabilities related to one defined benefit plan to a third party. The Company estimates the fair value of investments in equity securities using the Fair Value Alternative and records adjustments to fair value within net earnings.  Additionally, the Company is a limited partner in a partnership that invests in early stage companies.  While the partnership records these investments at fair value, the Company’s investment in the partnership is accounted for under the equity method of accounting.  During the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company recorded net realized and unrealized gains of $18 million related to changes in the fair value of these investments.  In addition, the Company recorded other income of $5 million related to certain other transactions during 2020.  These items are reflected in other income (expense), net in the Company’s Consolidated Statement of Earnings.  No significant realized or unrealized gains or losses were recorded in either 2019 or 2018 with respect to these investments. GAIN ON SALE OF PRODUCT LINES As a condition to obtaining certain regulatory approvals for the closing of the Cytiva Acquisition, the Company was required to divest certain of its existing product lines in the Life Sciences segment that in the aggregate generated revenues of approximately $170 million in 2019.  On April 30, 2020, the Company completed the sale of these product lines for a cash purchase price, net of cash transferred and transaction costs, of $826 million and recognized a pretax gain on sale of $455 million ($305 million after-tax or $0.42 per diluted common share) in the second quarter of 2020.  The divestiture of these product lines did not represent a strategic shift with a major effect on the Company’s operations and financial results and therefore is not reported as a discontinued operation. LOSS ON EARLY EXTINGUISHMENT OF BORROWINGS In the fourth quarter of 2020, the Company redeemed the €800 million aggregate principal amount of 1.7% senior unsecured notes due 2022 at a redemption price equal to the outstanding principal amount and a make-whole premium as specified in the applicable indenture, plus accrued and unpaid interest.  The Company recorded a loss on early extinguishment of these borrowings of $26 million ($20 million after-tax or $0.03 per diluted common share) related to the payment of make-whole premiums in connection with the redemption.  The Company funded the redemption using available cash balances, including proceeds from the fourth quarter 2020 issuance of the 2.6% senior unsecured notes due 2050. In the fourth quarter of 2019, the Company redeemed the $500 million aggregate principal amount of 2.4% senior unsecured notes due 2020 and the $375 million aggregate principal amount of 5.0% senior unsecured notes due 2020 at a redemption price equal to the outstanding principal amount and a make-whole premium as specified in the applicable indenture, plus accrued and unpaid interest.  The Company recorded a loss on extinguishment of these borrowings of $7 million ($5 million after-tax or $0.01 per diluted common share) related to the payment of make-whole premiums in connection with the redemption.  The Company funded the redemption using a portion of the cash distribution it received in connection with the Envista Disposition. INTEREST COSTS Interest expense of $275 million for 2020 was $167 million higher than in 2019, due primarily to the impact of higher average debt balances as a result of the issuances of debt in 2019 and 2020 (primarily to fund the Cytiva Acquisition) and 2020 borrowings under the Company’s $5.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility with a syndicate of banks that expires on August 27, 2024, subject to a one-year extension option at the request of the Company with the consent of the lenders (the “Five-Year Facility”) and the Company’s $5.0 billion 364-day unsecured revolving credit facility with a syndicate of banks that was scheduled to expire on August 26, 2020 (the “Superseded 364-Day Facility”), prior to the subsequent repayment of such credit facility borrowings.  Proceeds from these borrowings as well as available cash balances were used to fund the acquisition of Cytiva and for general corporate purposes.  Interest income of $71 million for 2020 was $68 million lower than in 2019, due primarily to lower interest rates and lower average cash balances in 2020 due to the funding of the Cytiva Acquisition. In January 2019, the Company entered into approximately $1.9 billion of cross-currency swap derivative contracts on its U.S. dollar-denominated bonds to effectively convert the Company’s U.S. dollar-denominated bonds to obligations denominated in Danish kroner, Japanese yen, euro and Swiss franc and reduce the interest rate from the stated interest rates on the U.S. dollar-denominated debt to the interest rates of the swaps.   In addition, in 2020, the Company entered into approximately $1.0 billion of cross-currency swap derivative contracts on its U.S. dollar-denominated bonds to effectively convert the Company’s U.S. 47 dollar-denominated bonds to obligations denominated in euro and reduce the interest rate from the stated interest rates on the U.S. dollar-denominated debt to the interest rates of the swaps.  As of December 31, 2020, approximately $2.0 billion of the cross-currency swap derivative contracts remained outstanding.  For a further description of the Company’s debt and cross-currency swap derivative contracts related to the debt as of December 31, 2020 refer to Notes 11 and 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. INCOME TAXES General Income tax expense and deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect management’s assessment of future taxes expected to be paid on items reflected in the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements.  The Company records the tax effect of discrete items and items that are reported net of their tax effects in the period in which they occur. The Company’s effective tax rate can be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with different statutory tax rates (including as a result of business acquisitions and dispositions), changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, accruals related to contingent tax liabilities and period-to-period changes in such accruals, the results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns (as further discussed below), the expiration of statutes of limitations, the implementation of tax planning strategies, tax rulings, court decisions, settlements with tax authorities and changes in tax laws and regulations, such as the TCJA and legislative policy changes that may result from the OECD’s initiative on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting or the change in the U.S. administration.  For a description of the tax treatment of earnings that are planned to be reinvested indefinitely outside the United States, refer to “—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Cash and Cash Requirements” below. The amount of income taxes the Company pays is subject to ongoing audits by federal, state and foreign tax authorities, which often result in proposed assessments.  Management performs a comprehensive review of its global tax positions on a quarterly basis.  Based on these reviews, which take into account the results of discussions and resolutions of matters with certain tax authorities and the other factors referenced in the prior paragraph, reserves for contingent tax liabilities are accrued or adjusted as necessary.  For a discussion of risks related to these and other tax matters, refer to “Item 1A. Risk Factors”. Year-Over-Year Changes in the Tax Provision and Effective Tax Rate The Company’s effective tax rate for 2020 and 2019 differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 21.0%, due principally to the Company’s earnings outside the United States that are indefinitely reinvested and taxed at rates different than the U.S. federal statutory rate.  Refer to Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the Company’s effective tax rate. The Company conducts business globally, and files numerous consolidated and separate income tax returns in the U.S. federal, state and foreign jurisdictions.  The non-U.S. countries in which the Company has a significant presence include China, Denmark, Germany, Singapore, Sweden, Switzerland and the United Kingdom.  Excluding these jurisdictions, the Company believes that a change in the statutory tax rate of any individual foreign country would not have a material effect on the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements given the geographic dispersion of the Company’s taxable income. The Company and its subsidiaries are routinely examined by various domestic and international taxing authorities.  The IRS has completed substantially all of the examinations of the Company’s federal income tax returns through 2015 and is currently examining certain of the Company’s federal income tax returns for 2016 through 2018.  In addition, the Company has subsidiaries in Austria, Belgium, Canada, China, Denmark, France, Germany, India, Japan, Korea, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and various other countries, states and provinces that are currently under audit for years ranging from 2004 through 2018. In the fourth quarter of 2018 and the first quarter of 2019, the IRS proposed significant adjustments to the Company’s taxable income for the years 2012 through 2015 with respect to the deferral of tax on certain premium income related to the Company’s self-insurance programs.  For income tax purposes, the recognition of premium income has been deferred in accordance with U.S. tax laws related to insurance.  The IRS challenged the deferral of premiums for certain types of the Company’s self-insurance policies.  These proposed adjustments would have increased the Company’s taxable income over the 2012 through 2015 period by approximately $2.7 billion.  In the third quarter of 2020, the Company settled the 2012 through 2015 audit period with the IRS, including the resolution of these proposed adjustments.  The settlement was not material to the Company’s financial statements, including its cash flows and effective tax rate.  As the settlement with the IRS was specific to the audit period, the settlement does not preclude the IRS from proposing similar adjustments to the Company’s self-insurance programs 48 in current or future audits.  In connection with its examination of the Company’s federal income tax returns for 2016, 2017 and 2018, the IRS has requested additional information on the Company’s self-insurance programs.  Due to the enactment of the TCJA in 2017 and the resulting reduction in the U.S. corporate tax rate for years after 2017, the Company revalued its deferred tax liabilities related to the temporary differences associated with this deferred premium income from 35.0% to 21.0%.  If the IRS proposes adjustments related to the Company’s self-insurance premiums with respect to years subsequent to 2015 and prior to adoption of the TCJA and the Company is unsuccessful in defending its position, any taxes owed to the IRS may be computed under the previous 35.0% statutory tax rate and the Company may be required to revalue the related deferred tax liabilities from 21.0% to 35.0%, which in addition to any interest due on the amounts assessed, would require a charge to future earnings.  Management believes the positions the Company has taken in its U.S. tax returns are in accordance with the relevant tax laws. Tax authorities in Denmark have raised significant issues related to interest accrued by certain of the Company’s subsidiaries.  On December 10, 2013, the Company received assessments from the Danish tax authority (“SKAT”) of approximately DKK 1.9 billion including interest through December 31, 2020 (approximately $309 million based on exchange rates as of December 31, 2020) imposing withholding tax relating to interest accrued in Denmark on borrowings from certain of the Company’s subsidiaries for the years 2004 through 2009.  The Company appealed these assessments to the Danish National Tax Tribunal in 2014.  The appeal is pending, awaiting the final outcome of other, preceding withholding tax cases that were appealed to the Danish courts and subsequently to the Court of Justice of the European Union (“CJEU”).  In February 2019, the CJEU decided several of these cases and ruled that the exemption of interest payments from withholding taxes provided in the applicable EU directive should be denied where taxpayers use the directive for abusive or fraudulent purposes, and that it is up to the national courts to make this determination.  This decision of the CJEU now awaits application by the Danish High Court in the other, preceding withholding tax cases.  SKAT has maintained a similar position related to withholding tax on interest accrued in Denmark on borrowings from certain of the Company’s subsidiaries with respect to tax years 2010 through 2015.  In 2019, the Company received aggregate assessments for these matters of approximately DKK 1.8 billion including interest through December 31, 2020 (approximately $302 million based on the exchange rate as of December 31, 2020).  The Company is appealing these assessments as well. Management believes the positions the Company has taken in Denmark are in accordance with the relevant tax laws and is vigorously defending its positions.  The Company intends on pursuing this matter through the Danish High Court should the appeal to the Danish National Tax Tribunal be unsuccessful.  The Company will continue to monitor decisions of both the Danish courts and the CJEU and evaluate the impact of these court rulings on the Company’s tax positions in Denmark.  The ultimate resolution of this matter is uncertain, could take many years, and could result in a further material adverse impact to the Company’s financial statements, including its cash flow and effective tax rate. On June 24, 2020, SKAT issued a press release to announce that it has misapplied Denmark’s interest rules in some assessments concerning withholding tax and overcharged interest.  Subsequent to year end, the Company received a notice from SKAT dated January 15, 2021 that includes a significant reduction in the interest amounts due related to the assessments discussed above.  The Company is reviewing the notice and the revised interest calculations received from SKAT. The Company expects its 2021 effective tax rate to be approximately 20.5% which is higher than the 2020 rate due primarily to the geographic mix of earnings anticipated for 2021.  Any future legislative changes in the United States and/or potential tax reform in other jurisdictions, could cause the Company’s effective tax rate to differ from this estimate.  Refer to Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to income taxes. DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS As further discussed in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, discontinued operations include the results of Envista which was disposed of during the fourth quarter of 2019.  In 2019, earnings from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, were $576 million and reflect the operating results of Envista prior to the Envista Disposition and a gain on the disposition of Envista of $451 million, net of certain costs associated with the Envista Disposition including costs related to establishing Envista as a stand-alone entity and legal, accounting and investment banking fees. COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Comprehensive income increased by approximately $3.6 billion in 2020 as compared to 2019, primarily due to a gain on  foreign currency translation adjustments in 2020 compared to a loss in 2019, higher net earnings and a decrease in the loss from cash flow hedge adjustments in 2020 compared to 2019, partially offset by an increase in losses from pension and postretirement plan benefit adjustments in 2020 compared to 2019.  The Company recorded a foreign currency translation gain of approximately $2.9 billion for 2020 compared to a translation loss of $75 million for 2019.  The Company recorded a pension and postretirement plan benefit loss of $147 million for 2020 compared to a loss of $90 million for 2019.  The 49 Company recorded losses from cash flow hedge adjustments related to the Company’s cross-currency swap derivative contracts in 2020 of $72 million compared to losses of $113 million in 2019. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT The Company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, equity prices and commodity prices as well as credit risk, each of which could impact its Consolidated Financial Statements.  The Company generally addresses its exposure to these risks through its normal operating and financing activities.  The Company also periodically uses derivative financial instruments to manage foreign exchange risks and interest rate risks.  In addition, the Company’s broad-based business activities help to reduce the impact that volatility in any particular area or related areas may have on its financial statements as a whole. Interest Rate Risk The Company manages interest cost using a mixture of fixed-rate and variable-rate debt.  A change in interest rates on fixed rate debt impacts the fair value of the debt but not the Company’s earnings or cash flow because the interest on such debt is fixed.  Generally, the fair market value of fixed-rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise.  As of December 31, 2020, an increase of 100 basis points in interest rates would have decreased the fair value of the Company’s fixed-rate long-term debt (excluding the LYONs, which have not been included in this calculation as the value of this convertible debt was primarily derived from the value of its underlying common stock) by approximately $2.0 billion. As of December 31, 2020, the Company’s variable-rate debt obligations consisted primarily of euro-based commercial paper borrowings (refer to Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the Company’s outstanding commercial paper balances as of December 31, 2020).  As a result, the Company’s primary interest rate exposure results from changes in short-term interest rates.  As these shorter duration obligations mature, the Company may issue additional short-term commercial paper obligations to refinance all or part of these borrowings, to the extent commercial paper markets are available.  In 2020, the average annual interest rate associated with the Company’s outstanding commercial paper borrowings was approximately negative 6 basis points.  A hypothetical increase of this average to positive 13 basis points would have increased the Company’s annual interest expense by $5 million.  The hypothetical increase used is the actual amount by which the Company’s commercial paper interest rates fluctuated during 2020. Refer to “Results of Operations—Interest Costs” for discussion of the Company’s cross-currency swap derivative contracts and interest rate swap agreements. Currency Exchange Rate Risk The Company faces transactional exchange rate risk from transactions with customers in countries outside the United States and from intercompany transactions between affiliates.  Transactional exchange rate risk arises from the purchase and sale of goods and services in currencies other than Danaher’s functional currency or the functional currency of its applicable subsidiary.  The Company also faces translational exchange rate risk related to the translation of financial statements of its foreign operations into U.S. dollars, Danaher’s functional currency.  Costs incurred and sales recorded by subsidiaries operating outside of the United States are translated into U.S. dollars using exchange rates effective during the respective period.  As a result, the Company is exposed to movements in the exchange rates of various currencies against the U.S. dollar.  In particular, the Company has more sales in European currencies than it has expenses in those currencies.  Therefore, when European currencies strengthen or weaken against the U.S. dollar, operating profits are increased or decreased, respectively.  The effect of a change in currency exchange rates on the Company’s net investment in international subsidiaries is reflected in the accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) component of stockholders’ equity. Currency exchange rates did not have a significant impact on 2020 reported sales on a year-over-year basis.  If the currency exchange rates in effect as of December 31, 2020 were to prevail throughout 2021, currency exchange rates would increase 2021 estimated sales relative to 2020 sales by approximately 3.0%.  Strengthening of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies compared to the exchange rates in effect as of December 31, 2020 would adversely impact the Company’s sales and results of operations on an overall basis.  Any weakening of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies compared to the exchange rates in effect as of December 31, 2020 would positively impact the Company’s sales and results of operations. The Company has generally accepted the exposure to exchange rate movements without using derivative financial instruments to manage this transactional exchange risk, although the Company has used foreign currency-denominated debt and cross-currency swaps to hedge a portion of its net investments in foreign operations against adverse movements in exchange rates.  Both positive and negative movements in currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar will continue to affect the reported amount of sales and net earnings in the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements.  In addition, the Company has assets and liabilities held in foreign currencies.  A 10% depreciation in major currencies relative to the U.S. dollar as of December 31, 50 2020 would have reduced foreign currency-denominated net assets and stockholders’ equity by approximately $1.5 billion.  As of December 31, 2020, the Company had $2.0 billion of cross-currency swap derivative contracts outstanding as hedges of its net investment in foreign operations.  These contracts effectively convert the Company’s U.S. dollar-denominated bonds to obligations denominated in Danish kroner, Japanese yen, euro and Swiss franc, and partially offset the impact of changes in currency rates on foreign currency-denominated net assets during the term of the swap.  The Company also uses cross-currency swap derivative contracts to hedge U.S. dollar-denominated long-term debt issuances in a foreign subsidiary whose functional currency is the euro against adverse movements in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and the euro. For a further description of the Company’s cross-currency swap derivative contracts as of December 31, 2020 refer to Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Equity Price Risk The Company’s investment portfolio from time to time includes publicly-traded equity securities that are sensitive to fluctuations in market price, though as of December 31, 2020, the Company held no available-for-sale marketable equity securities.  The Company holds non-marketable equity investments in privately held companies that may be impacted by equity price risks.  These non-marketable equity investments are accounted for under the Fair Value Alternative method with changes in fair value recorded in earnings.  Volatility in the equity markets or other fair value considerations could affect the value of these investments and require charges or gains to be recognized in earnings. Commodity Price Risk For a discussion of risks relating to commodity prices, refer to “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” Credit Risk The Company is exposed to potential credit losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties to its financial instruments.  Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to credit risk consist of cash and temporary investments, receivables from customers and derivatives.  The Company places cash and temporary investments with various high-quality financial institutions throughout the world and exposure is limited at any one institution.  Although the Company typically does not obtain collateral or other security to secure these obligations, it does regularly monitor the third-party depository institutions that hold its cash and cash equivalents.  The Company’s emphasis is primarily on safety and liquidity of principal and secondarily on maximizing yield on those funds. In addition, concentrations of credit risk arising from receivables from customers are limited due to the diversity of the Company’s customers.  The Company’s businesses perform credit evaluations of their customers’ financial conditions as deemed appropriate and also obtain collateral or other security when deemed appropriate. The Company enters into derivative transactions infrequently and typically with high-quality financial institutions, so that exposure at any one institution is limited. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Management assesses the Company’s liquidity in terms of its ability to generate cash to fund its operating, investing and financing activities.  The Company continues to generate substantial cash from operating activities and believes that its operating cash flow and other sources of liquidity will be sufficient to allow it to continue investing in existing businesses, consummating strategic acquisitions and investments, paying interest and servicing debt, funding restructuring activities and managing its capital structure on a short and long-term basis. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company continues to monitor the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the Company’s liquidity and capital resources and has taken actions intended to mitigate adverse impacts.  Historically, the Company has generally relied on borrowings under its commercial paper program to address liquidity requirements that exceed the capacity provided by its operating cash flows and cash on hand, while also accessing the capital markets from time to time to secure financing for more significant acquisitions.  The COVID-19 pandemic adversely affected the availability of new borrowings in the commercial paper markets at times during 2020.  Therefore, in the first half of 2020, the Company engaged in the following financing transactions: • The Company borrowed $2.5 billion under the Five-Year Facility and $2.5 billion under the Superseded 364-Day Facility for general corporate purposes (including payment of a portion of the purchase price for the Cytiva Acquisition and repayment of certain commercial paper obligations as they matured).  The Company replaced the Superseded 364-Day Facility with a new $2.5 billion 364-Day Facility, which was terminated on December 31, 2020.  All amounts borrowed under the credit facilities referenced above were repaid in 2020.  As of December 31, 2020, 51 after taking into account amounts backstopping outstanding commercial paper, the Company had availability under the Five-Year Credit Facility of approximately $4.4 billion for direct borrowings or to backstop the issuance of additional commercial paper to the extent available. • The Company issued approximately €2.5 billion (approximately $2.7 billion based on currency exchange rates as of the respective dates of the pricing of the notes) aggregate principal amount of euro-denominated senior unsecured notes, the proceeds of which have been and are being used for general corporate purposes (including repayment of the borrowings under the Superseded 364-Day Facility and the Five-Year Facility, and repayment of certain commercial paper obligations as they mature). • The Company completed the 2020 Common Stock Offering and 2020 MCPS Offering and received net proceeds of approximately $1.73 billion and $1.67 billion, respectively, which have been and will be used for general corporate purposes. • In October 2020, the Company issued $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of U.S. dollar-denominated senior unsecured notes, the proceeds of which have been and will be used for general corporate purposes, including the redemption of the 2022 Euronotes in the fourth quarter of 2020. Following is an overview of the Company’s cash flows and liquidity for the years ended December 31: Overview of Cash Flows and Liquidity • Operating cash flows from continuing operations increased approximately $2.6 billion, or approximately 70%, during 2020 as compared to 2019, due to higher net earnings (and excluding noncash impairment charges and fair value adjustments related to certain long-lived assets in 2020, noncash charges for depreciation, amortization and stock compensation in both periods, and noncash discrete tax charges in 2019), higher cash provided by trade accounts payable, prepaid expenses and other assets, and accrued expenses and other liabilities during the 2020 period 52 compared to the prior year, partially offset by higher cash used for trade accounts receivable and inventories in 2020 compared to the prior year. • Net cash used in investing activities increased approximately $20.0 billion during 2020 as compared to 2019 and consisted primarily of cash paid for acquisitions, primarily the Cytiva Acquisition, and to a lesser extent investments.  Refer to Notes 3 and 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for a discussion of the Company’s acquisitions and investments. • Refer to the discussion at the beginning of the “Liquidity and Capital Resources” section for a summary of the Company’s 2020 financing activities. • As of December 31, 2020, the Company held approximately $6.0 billion of cash and cash equivalents. Operating Activities Cash flows from operating activities can fluctuate significantly from period-to-period as working capital needs and the timing of payments for income taxes, restructuring activities and productivity improvement initiatives, pension funding and other items impact reported cash flows. Operating cash flows from continuing operations were approximately $6.2 billion for 2020, an increase of approximately $2.6 billion, or approximately 70%, as compared to 2019.  The year-over-year change in operating cash flows from 2019 to 2020 was primarily attributable to the following factors: • 2020 operating cash flows benefited from higher net earnings in 2020 as compared to 2019.  Partially offsetting the impact of this increase is the fact that 2019 net earnings from continuing operations included $215 million of net discrete noncash tax charges compared to a net discrete noncash tax benefit of $85 million in 2020.  In addition, net earnings from continuing operations in 2020 included $22 million of noncash impairment charges and $6 million of fair value adjustment gains related to certain long-lived assets and investments.  These noncash charges and gains impacted earnings without a corresponding impact to operating cash flows. • Net earnings for 2020 reflected an increase of approximately $1.1 billion of depreciation, amortization (intangible assets and inventory step-up) and stock compensation expense as compared to 2019.  Amortization expense primarily relates to the amortization of intangible assets and inventory fair value adjustments.  Depreciation expense relates to both the Company’s manufacturing and operating facilities as well as instrumentation leased to customers under operating-type lease arrangements.  The increase in depreciation and amortization in 2020 compared to 2019 is primarily due to the Cytiva Acquisition in 2020.  Depreciation, amortization and stock compensation are noncash expenses that decrease earnings without a corresponding impact to operating cash flows. • The aggregate of trade accounts receivable, inventories and trade accounts payable used $160 million in operating cash flows during 2020, compared to $161 million of operating cash flows used in 2019.  The amount of cash flow generated from or used by the aggregate of trade accounts receivable, inventories and trade accounts payable depends upon how effectively the Company manages the cash conversion cycle, which effectively represents the number of days that elapse from the day it pays for the purchase of raw materials and components to the collection of cash from its customers and can be significantly impacted by the timing of collections and payments in a period. • The aggregate of prepaid expenses and other assets, deferred income taxes and accrued expenses and other liabilities provided $765 million in operating cash flows during 2020, compared to $38 million provided in 2019.  The timing of cash payments for taxes, various employee-related liabilities, customer funding and accrued expenses drove the majority of this change. Investing Activities Cash flows relating to investing activities consist primarily of cash used for acquisitions and capital expenditures, including instruments leased to customers, cash used for investments and cash proceeds from divestitures of businesses or assets. Net cash used in investing activities was approximately $21.2 billion during 2020 compared to approximately $1.2 billion of net cash used in 2019. 53 Acquisitions, Divestitures and Sale of Investments For a discussion of the Company’s 2020 acquisitions and divestitures refer to “—Overview” and Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  In addition, in 2020 and 2019, the Company invested $342 million and $241 million, respectively, in non-marketable equity securities and partnerships. During 2019, the Company acquired five businesses for total consideration of $331 million in cash, net of cash acquired.  The businesses acquired complement existing units of each of the Company’s three segments.  The aggregate annual sales of these businesses at the time of their acquisition, in each case based on the companies’ revenues for its last completed fiscal year prior to the acquisition, were $72 million. Refer to Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Company’s transfer of its former dental business to Envista Holdings Corporation. Capital Expenditures Capital expenditures are made primarily for increasing capacity, replacing equipment, supporting new product development, improving information technology systems and the manufacture of instruments that are used in operating-type lease arrangements that certain of the Company’s businesses enter into with customers.  Capital expenditures totaled $791 million in 2020 and $636 million in 2019.  The year-over-year increase in capital spending in 2020 was primarily due to capital expenditures to support production of products supporting customers’ efforts related to testing, treatment and vaccine production for COVID-19 and capital expenditures at Cytiva, partially offset by declines in expenditures for instruments used in OTL arrangements.  In 2021, the Company expects to incur higher capital spending than the prior year, to primarily support production of products related to testing, treatment and vaccine production for COVID-19.  The Company’s actual expenditures will ultimately depend on business conditions, including demand for the Company’s products related to COVID-19, regulatory requirements, and the capability of suppliers to support increased production.  As a result, the Company estimates capital expenditures in 2021 to be between approximately $1.0 billion and $1.2 billion. Financing Activities Cash flows from financing activities consist primarily of cash flows associated with the issuance and repayments of commercial paper, issuance and repayment of long-term debt, issuance and repurchases of common stock, issuance of preferred stock and payments of cash dividends to shareholders.  Financing activities provided cash of approximately $1.0 billion during 2020 compared to approximately $16.4 billion of cash provided during 2019.  The year-over-year decrease in cash provided by financing activities was due primarily to the significant borrowings incurred in 2019 to finance the Cytiva Acquisition, partially offset by borrowings incurred in 2020 to finance the remaining amounts needed to acquire Cytiva and for general corporate purposes. Total debt was approxim ately $21.2 billion and $21.7 billion as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, and notes payable and current portion of long-term debt was $11 million and $212 million as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively.  As of December 31, 2020 the Company had the ability to incur approximately $4.4 billion of additional indebtedness in direct borrowings or under the outstanding commercial paper facilities based on the amounts available under the Company’s $5.0 billion Five-Year Facility which were not being used to backstop outstanding commercial paper balances.  As of December 31, 2020, the Company has classified $611 million of its borrowings outstanding under the euro-denominated commercial paper program and $290 million of borrowings outstanding under the 2021 Yen Notes as long-term debt in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet as the Company has the intent and ability, as supported by availability under the Five-Year Facility, to refinance these borrowings for at least one year from the balance sheet date.  As commercial paper obligations mature, the Company may issue additional short-term commercial paper obligations to refinance all or part of these borrowings, to the extent commercial paper markets are available. Under the Company’s U.S. and euro-denominated commercial paper program, the notes are typically issued at a discount from par, generally based on the ratings assigned to the Company by credit rating agencies at the time of the issuance and prevailing market rates measured by reference to LIBOR or EURIBOR.  Additionally, the Company’s floating rate senior unsecured notes due 2022 pay interest based upon the three-month EURIBOR plus 0.3%.  In July 2017, the head of the United Kingdom Financial Conduct Authority announced the intent to phase out the use of LIBOR by the end of 2021.  The U.S. Federal Reserve, in conjunction with the Alternative Reference Rates Committee, a steering committee comprised of large U.S. financial institutions, is considering replacing U.S. dollar LIBOR with the Secured Overnight Financing Rate, or SOFR, a new index calculated by short-term repurchase agreements, backed by Treasury securities.  The Company has evaluated the anticipated impact of the transition from LIBOR and does not expect the transition to be material to the Company’s financial position. 54 R efer to Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Company’s financing activities and indebtedness, including the Company’s outstanding debt as of December 31, 2020, and the Company’s commercial paper program and F ive-Year Facility . Common Stock Offering and MCPS Offering For a description of the 2019 Common Stock and MCPS Series A Offerings and the 2020 Common Stock and MCPS Series B Offerings, refer to Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Shelf Registration Statement The Company has filed a “well-known seasoned issuer” shelf registration statement on Form S-3 with the SEC that registers an indeterminate amount of debt securities, common stock, preferred stock, warrants, depositary shares, purchase contracts and units for future issuance.  The Company expects to use net proceeds realized by the Company from future securities sales off this shelf registration statement for general corporate purposes, including without limitation repayment or refinancing of debt or other corporate obligations, acquisitions, capital expenditures, share repurchases and dividends and/or working capital. Stock Repurchase Program Please see Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the Company’s stock repurchase program. Dividends The Company declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.18 per share of Company common stock that was paid on January 29, 2021 to holders of record on December 28, 2020.  In addition, the Company declared quarterly cash dividends of $11.875 per MCPS Series A and $12.50 per MCPS Series B that were paid on January 15, 2021 to holders of record as of December 31, 2020.  Aggregate 2020 and 2019 cash payments for dividends on Company common stock were $500 million and $478 million, respectively, and aggregate 2020 and 2019 cash payments for the dividends on the Company’s MCPS were $115 million and $49 million, respectively.  The year-over-year increase in dividend payments in 2020 primarily relates to dividends paid on the MCPS Series A and MCPS Series B, which were issued in March 2019 and May 2020, respectively, and an increase in the quarterly dividend rate on common stock effective with respect to the dividend paid in the second quarter of 2020. Cash and Cash Requirements As of December 31, 2020, the Company held approximately $6.0 billion of cash and cash equivalents that were on deposit with financial institutions or invested in highly liquid investment-grade debt instruments with a maturity of 90 days or less with an approximate weighted average annual interest rate of 0.2%.  Of this amount, approximately $1.5 billion was held within the United States and approximately $4.5 billion was held outside of the United States.  The Company will continue to have cash requirements to support working capital needs, capital expenditures, acquisitions and investments, pay interest and service debt, pay taxes and any related interest or penalties, fund its restructuring activities and pension plans as required, pay dividends to shareholders, repurchase shares of the Company’s common stock as applicable and support other business needs.  The Company generally intends to use available cash and internally generated funds to meet these cash requirements, but in the event that additional liquidity is required, particularly in connection with acquisitions, the Company may also borrow under its commercial paper programs or Five-Year Facility, enter into new credit facilities and either borrow directly thereunder or use such credit facilities to backstop additional borrowing capacity under its commercial paper program and/or issue debt and/or equity in the capital markets, in each case to the extent such sources of capital remain available.  The Company also may from time to time access the capital markets to take advantage of favorable interest rate environments or other market conditions. While repatriation of some cash held outside the United States may be restricted by local laws, most of the Company’s foreign cash could be repatriated to the United States.  Following enactment of the TCJA and the associated Transition Tax, in general, repatriation of cash to the United States can be completed with no incremental U.S. tax; however, repatriation of cash could subject the Company to non-U.S. jurisdictional taxes on distributions.  The cash that the Company’s non-U.S. subsidiaries hold for indefinite reinvestment is generally used to finance foreign operations, investments and acquisitions.  The income taxes applicable to repatriating such earnings are not readily determinable.  As of December 31, 2020, principally all of the Company’s non-U.S. earnings are indefinitely reinvested and management believes that the Company has sufficient liquidity to satisfy its cash needs, including its cash needs in the United States. During 2020, the Company contributed $140 million to its U.S. defined benefit pension plans and $51 million to its non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans.  During 2021, the Company’s cash contribution requirements for its U.S. and its non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans are expected to be approximately $10 million and $44 million, respectively.  The ultimate 55 amounts to be contributed depend upon, among other things, legal requirements, underlying asset returns, the plan’s funded status, the anticipated tax deductibility of the contribution, local practices, market conditions, interest rates and other factors. Contractual and Other Obligations For a description of the Company’s debt and lease obligations, commitments, and litigation and contingencies, refer to Notes 5, 11, 17, and 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Legal Proceedings Refer to “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” and Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding legal proceedings and contingencies, and for a discussion of risks related to legal proceedings and contingencies, refer to “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES Management’s discussion and analysis of the Company’s financial condition and results of operations is based upon the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.  The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.  The Company bases these estimates and judgments on historical experience, the current economic environment and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.  Actual results may differ materially from these estimates and judgments. The Company believes the following accounting estimates are most critical to an understanding of its financial statements.  Estimates are considered to be critical if they meet both of the following criteria: (1) the estimate requires assumptions about material matters that are uncertain at the time the estimate is made, and (2) material changes in the estimate are reasonably likely from period-to-period.  For a detailed discussion on the application of these and other accounting estimates, refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Acquired Intangibles —The Company’s business acquisitions, including the Cytiva Acquisition, typically result in the recognition of goodwill, developed technology and other intangible assets, which affect the amount of future period amortization expense and possible impairment charges that the Company may incur.  The fair values of acquired intangibles are determined using information available near the acquisition date based on estimates and assumptions that are deemed reasonable by the Company.  Significant assumptions include the discount rates and certain assumptions that form the basis of the forecasted results of the acquired business including revenue, earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”), growth rates, royalty rates and technology obsolescence rates.  These assumptions are forward looking and could be affected by future economic and market conditions.  The Company engages third-party valuation specialists who review the Company’s critical assumptions and calculations of the fair value of acquired intangible assets in connection with significant acquisitions.  In connection with acquisitions during the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company recognized aggregate goodwill of approximately $10.4 billion and intangible assets of approximately $10.7 billion.  Refer to Notes 1, 3 and 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the Company’s policies relating to goodwill, acquired intangibles and acquisitions. In performing its goodwill impairment testing, the Company estimates the fair value of its reporting units primarily using a market-based approach which relies on current trading multiples of forecasted EBITDA for companies operating in businesses similar to each of the Company’s reporting units to calculate an estimated fair value of each reporting unit.  In evaluating the estimates derived by the market-based approach, management makes judgments about the relevance and reliability of the multiples by considering factors unique to its reporting units, including operating results, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows, and transactions and marketplace data as well as judgments about the comparability of the market proxies selected.  There are inherent uncertainties related to these assumptions and management’s judgment in applying them to the analysis of goodwill impairment. As of December 31, 2020, the Company had five reporting units for goodwill impairment testing.  Reporting units resulting from recent acquisitions generally present the highest risk of impairment.  Management believes the impairment risk associated with these reporting units generally decreases as these businesses are integrated into the Company and better positioned for potential future earnings growth.  The Company’s annual goodwill impairment analysis in 2020 indicated that in all instances, the fair values of the Company’s reporting units exceeded their carrying values and consequently did not result in an impairment charge.  The excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value (expressed as a percentage of carrying value for the respective reporting unit) for each of the Company’s reporting units as of the annual testing date ranged from approximately 80% to approximately 695%.  In order to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value calculations used in the goodwill impairment 56 test, the Company applied a hypothetical 10% decrease to the fair values of each reporting unit and compared those hypothetical values to the reporting unit carrying values.  Based on this hypothetical 10% decrease, the excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value (expressed as a percentage of carrying value for the respective reporting unit) for each of the Company’s reporting units ranged from approximately 60% to approximately 615%. The Company reviews identified intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the related carrying amounts may not be recoverable.  Determining whether an impairment loss occurred for finite-lived intangibles requires a comparison of the carrying amount to the sum of undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated by the asset.  These analyses require management to make judgments and estimates about future revenues, expenses, market conditions and discount rates related to these assets.  Indefinite-lived intangibles are subject to impairment testing at least annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that potential impairment exists.  Determining whether an impairment loss occurred for indefinite-lived intangible assets involves calculating the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible assets and comparing the fair value to their carrying value.  If the fair value is less than the carrying value, the difference is recorded as an impairment loss. Refer to Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of intangible assets impairment charges recorded during 2020. If actual results are not consistent with management’s estimates and assumptions, goodwill and other intangible assets may be overstated and a charge would need to be taken against net earnings which would adversely affect the Company’s financial statements.  Historically, the Company’s estimates of goodwill and intangible assets have been materially correct. Contingent Liabilities —As discussed in “Item 3. Legal Proceedings” and Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company is, from time to time, subject to a variety of litigation and similar contingent liabilities incidental to its business (or the business operations of previously owned entities).  The Company recognizes a liability for any legal contingency that is known or probable of occurrence and reasonably estimable.  These assessments require judgments concerning matters such as litigation developments and outcomes, the anticipated outcome of negotiations, the number of future claims and the cost of both pending and future claims.  In addition, because most contingencies are resolved over long periods of time, liabilities may change in the future due to various factors, including those discussed in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  If the reserves established by the Company with respect to these contingent liabilities are inadequate, the Company would be required to incur an expense equal to the amount of the loss incurred in excess of the reserves, which would adversely affect the Company’s financial statements. Revenue Recognition —The Company derives revenues from the sale of products and services.  Revenue is recognized when control over the promised products or services is transferred to the customer in an amount that reflects the consideration that the Company expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services.  In determining if control has transferred, the Company considers whether certain indicators of the transfer of control are present, such as the transfer of title, present right to payment, significant risks and rewards of ownership and customer acceptance when acceptance is not a formality.  To determine the consideration that the customer owes the Company, the Company must make judgments regarding the amount of customer allowances and rebates, as well as an estimate for product returns.  The Company also enters into lease arrangements with customers which requires the Company to determine whether the arrangements are operating or sales-type leases.  Refer to Notes 1 and 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the Company’s revenue recognition policies. If the Company’s judgments regarding revenue recognition prove incorrect, the Company’s reported revenues in particular periods may be incorrect.  Historically, the Company’s estimates of revenue have been materially correct. Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits —For a description of the Company’s pension and other postretirement benefit accounting practices, refer to Notes 13 and 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  Calculations of the amount of pension and other postretirement benefit costs and obligations depend on the assumptions used in the actuarial valuations, including assumptions regarding discount rates, expected return on plan assets, rates of salary increases, health care cost trend rates, mortality rates and other factors.  If the assumptions used in calculating pension and other postretirement benefits costs and obligations are incorrect or if the factors underlying the assumptions change (as a result of differences in actual experience, changes in key economic indicators or other factors) the Company’s financial statements could be materially affected.  A 50 basis point reduction in the discount rates used for the plans would have increased the U.S. net obligation by $144 million ($110 million on an after-tax basis) and the non-U.S. net obligation by $191 million ($147 million on an after-tax basis) from the amounts recorded in the Consolidated Financial Statements as of December 31, 2020.  A 50 basis point increase in the discount rates used for the plans would have decreased the U.S. net obligation by $133 million ($101 million on an after-tax basis) and the non-U.S. net obligation by $175 million ($135 million on an after-tax basis) from the amounts recorded in the Consolidated Financial Statements as of December 31, 2020. For 2020, the estimated long-term rate of return for the U.S. plans was 7.0%, and the Company intends to use an assumption of 6.75% for 2021.  The estimated long-term rate of return for the non-U.S. plans was determined on a plan-by-plan basis based on 57 the nature of the plan assets and ranged from 0.5% to 5.0%.  If the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets for 2020 was reduced by 50 basis points, pension expense for the U.S. and non-U.S. plans for 2020 would have increased $9 million ($7 million on an after-tax basis) and $6 million ($4 million on an after-tax basis), respectively. For a discussion of the Company’s 2020 and anticipated 2021 defined benefit pension plan contributions, refer to “—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Cash and Cash Requirements”. Income Taxes —For a description of the Company’s income tax accounting policies, refer to Notes 1 and 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  The Company establishes valuation allowances for its deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax asset will not be realized.  This requires management to make judgments and estimates regarding: (1) the timing and amount of the reversal of taxable temporary differences, (2) expected future taxable income, and (3) the impact of tax planning strategies.  Future changes to tax rates would also impact the amounts of deferred tax assets and liabilities and could have an adverse impact on the Company’s financial statements. The Company provides for unrecognized tax benefits when, based upon the technical merits, it is “more likely than not” that an uncertain tax position will not be sustained upon examination.  Judgment is required in evaluating tax positions and determining income tax provisions.  The Company re-evaluates the technical merits of its tax positions and may recognize an uncertain tax benefit in certain circumstances, including when: (1) a tax audit is completed; (2) applicable tax laws change, including a tax case ruling or legislative guidance; or (3) the applicable statute of limitations expires. In addition, certain of the Company’s tax returns are currently under review by tax authorities including in Denmark and the United States (refer to “—Results of Operations—Income Taxes” and Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements).  Management believes the positions taken in these returns are in accordance with the relevant tax laws.  However, the outcome of these audits is uncertain and could result in the Company being required to record charges for prior year tax obligations which could have a material adverse impact to the Company’s financial statements, including its effective tax rate. An increase of 1.0% in the Company’s 2020 nominal tax rate would have resulted in an additional income tax provision for continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2020 of $45 million. NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS For a discussion of the new accounting standards impacting the Company, refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.