********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with the information included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other documents we file with the SEC.  We have identified the risks and uncertainties described below as material, but they are not the only risks and uncertainties facing us.  Our business is also subject to general risks and uncertainties that affect many other companies, such as market conditions, economic conditions, geopolitical events, changes in laws, regulations or accounting rules, fluctuations in interest rates, terrorism, wars or conflicts, major health concerns including pandemics, natural disasters or other disruptions of expected business conditions.  Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business and financial statements, including our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition, and our stock price. Business and Strategic Risks The COVID-19 pandemic has adversely impacted and could in the future continue to adversely impact certain elements of our business and our financial statements. Our global operations expose us to risks associated with public health crises, including epidemics and pandemics such as COVID-19.  The global spread of COVID-19 led to unprecedented restrictions on, and disruptions in, business and personal activities, including as a result of preventive and precautionary measures that we, other businesses, our communities and governments undertook to mitigate the spread.  The direct impact of COVID-19 and the preventive measures implemented as a result thereof adversely affected certain elements of our Company (including to a different degree our operations, commercial organizations, supply chains and distribution systems).  Please see “Item 7 - MD&A” for a discussion of how COVID-19 impacted our results of operations in 2022.  While the direct impact of COVID-19 and many of the preventive measures moderated in 2022, any resurgence of COVID-19 (or the outbreak of any other epidemic or pandemic) or the reinstatement of similar preventive measures in the future could negatively impact the economies and financial markets of the world and our businesses and financial statements. The Company deployed its capabilities, expertise and scale to address critical health needs related to COVID-19, including developing and making available diagnostic tests for the rapid detection of COVID-19 as well as providing critical support to firms developing and producing vaccines and therapies for COVID-19.  Please see “Item 7. MD&A” for a discussion of the Company products used in the fight against COVID-19.  As COVID-19 and the preventive measures related thereto have moderated, demand for the Company’s COVID-19 related products has moderated as well.  The duration and extent of future demand for our products supporting COVID-19 testing and for our products related to developing and producing vaccines and therapies for COVID-19 is uncertain and depends on multiple factors, including the extent to which COVID-19 persists in endemic form.  Declines in demand for our COVID-19 related products that are unanticipated in timing or magnitude could adversely affect our business and financial statements. Conditions in the global economy, the particular markets we serve and the financial markets can adversely affect our business and financial statements. Our business is sensitive to general economic conditions.  Slower economic growth in the domestic and/or international markets, inflation, actual or anticipated default on sovereign debt, volatility in the currency and credit markets, high levels of unemployment or underemployment, labor availability constraints, reduced levels of capital expenditures, changes or anticipation of potential changes in government trade, fiscal, tax and monetary policies, changes in capital requirements for financial institutions, government budget negotiation dynamics, sequestration, austerity measures and other challenges that affect economies of the world have in the past adversely affected, and may in the future adversely affect, the Company and its distributors, customers and suppliers, including having the effect of: • reducing demand for our products and services (in this Annual Report, references to products and services also includes software), limiting the financing available to our customers and suppliers, increasing order cancellations and resulting in longer sales cycles and slower adoption of new technologies; • increasing the difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and the risk of excess and obsolete inventories; • increasing price competition in our served markets; • supply interruptions, delays or cost increases, which can disrupt our ability to produce or deliver our products and/or increase our costs; • increasing the risk of impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets, and the risk that we may not be able to fully recover the value of other assets such as real estate and tax assets; 17 • increasing the risk that counterparties to our contractual arrangements will become insolvent or otherwise unable to fulfill their contractual obligations which, in addition to increasing the risks identified above, could result in preference actions against us; and • adversely impacting market sizes and growth rates. If growth in any key economy of the world or in any of the markets we serve slows for a significant period, if there is significant deterioration in any such economy or such markets or if economic improvements do not benefit the markets we serve, our business and financial statements can be adversely affected. We face intense competition and if we are unable to compete effectively, we may experience decreased demand and decreased market share.  Even if we compete effectively, we may be required to reduce the prices we charge. Our businesses operate in industries that are intensely competitive and have been subject to increasing consolidation.  Because of the range of the products and services we sell and the variety of markets we serve, we encounter a wide variety of competitors; refer to “Item 1. Business—Competition” for additional details.  In order to compete effectively, we must retain longstanding relationships with major customers and continue to grow our business by establishing relationships with new customers, continually developing new products and services to maintain and expand our brand recognition and leadership position in various product and service categories and penetrating new markets, including high-growth markets.  Our ability to compete can also be impacted by changing customer preferences and requirements (for example increased demand for products incorporating digital capabilities or more environmentally-friendly products and supplier practices) as well as changes in the way healthcare services are delivered (including the movement of some care from acute to non-acute settings and increased focus on chronic disease management).  Cost containment efforts by governments and the private sector, particularly in the healthcare industry, are also resulting in increased emphasis on products that reduce costs and improve efficiency and effectiveness.  In addition, significant shifts in industry market share have occurred and may in the future occur in connection with product problems, safety alerts and publications about products, reflecting the competitive significance of product quality, product efficacy and quality systems in our industry.  Our failure to compete effectively and/or pricing pressures resulting from competition may adversely impact our business and financial statements, and our expansion into new markets may result in greater-than-expected risks, liabilities and expenses.  In addition, the Company’s competitors and customers have from time to time introduced, and may in the future introduce, private label, generic or low-cost products that compete with the Company’s products at lower price points.  New, disruptive technologies may emerge that displace the Company’s existing technologies.  Competitors’ products can capture significant market share or lead to a decrease in market prices overall, resulting in an adverse effect on the Company’s business and financial statements. Our growth depends in part on the timely development and commercialization, and customer acceptance, of new and enhanced products and services based on technological innovation. We generally sell our products and services in industries that are characterized by rapid technological changes, frequent new product introductions and changing industry standards.  If we do not develop innovative new and enhanced products and services on a timely basis, our offerings will become obsolete over time and our business and financial statements will suffer.  Our success depends on several factors, including our ability to: • correctly identify customer needs and preferences and predict future needs and preferences; • allocate our R&D funding to products and services with higher growth prospects; • anticipate and respond to our competitors’ development of new products and services and technological innovations; • differentiate our offerings from our competitors’ offerings and avoid commoditization; • innovate and develop new technologies and applications, and acquire or obtain rights to third-party technologies that may have valuable applications in our served markets; • obtain adequate intellectual property rights with respect to key technologies before our competitors do; • successfully commercialize new technologies in a timely manner, price them competitively and cost-effectively manufacture and deliver sufficient volumes of new products of appropriate quality on time; • obtain necessary regulatory approvals of appropriate scope (including with respect to medical device products by demonstrating satisfactory clinical results where applicable as well as achieving third-party reimbursement); and • stimulate customer demand for and convince customers to adopt new technologies. 18 If we fail to accurately predict future customer needs and preferences or fail to produce viable technologies, we may invest heavily in R&D of products and services that do not lead to significant revenue, which would adversely affect our business and financial statements.  Even when we successfully innovate and develop new and enhanced products and services, we often incur substantial costs in doing so, and our profitability may suffer.  In addition, promising new offerings may fail to reach the market or realize only limited commercial success because of real or perceived efficacy or safety concerns, failure to achieve positive clinical outcomes, uncertainty over third-party reimbursement or entrenched patterns of clinical practice.  Competitors may also develop after-market services and parts for our products which may detract from our sales. The health care industry and related industries that we serve have undergone, and are in the process of undergoing, significant changes in an effort to reduce (and increase the predictability of) costs, which can adversely affect our business and financial statements. The health care industry and related industries that we serve have undergone, and are in the process of undergoing, significant changes in an effort to reduce (and increase the predictability of) costs, including the following: • Many of our customers, and the end-users to whom our customers supply products, rely on government funding of and reimbursement for healthcare products and services and research activities.  The PPACA, health care austerity measures in other countries and other potential healthcare reform changes and government austerity measures have reduced and may further reduce the amount of government funding or reimbursement available to customers or end-users of our products and services and/or the volume of medical procedures using our products and services.  For example, the Protecting Access to Medicare Act of 2014 (“PAMA”) introduced a multi-year pricing program for services payable under the Clinical Laboratory Fee Schedule (“CLFS”) that is designed to bring Medicare allowable amounts in line with the amounts paid by private payors.  It is still unclear whether and to what extent these new rates will affect overall pricing and reimbursement for clinical laboratory testing services, but to the extent our customers conclude that Medicare reimbursement for these services is inadequate, it can in turn adversely impact the prices at which we sell our products.  Other countries, as well as some private payors, also control the price of health care products, directly or indirectly, through reimbursement, payment, pricing or coverage limitations, tying reimbursement to outcomes or (in the case of governmental entities) through compulsory licensing or limiting of intellectual property protections.  Global economic uncertainty or deterioration can also adversely impact government funding and reimbursement. • Governmental and private health care providers and payors around the world are increasingly utilizing managed care for the delivery of healthcare services, centralizing purchasing, limiting the number of vendors that may participate in purchasing programs, forming group purchasing organizations, strategic alliances and integrated health delivery networks and pursuing consolidation to improve their purchasing leverage, using competitive bid processes to procure healthcare products and services and investing in health care practices to increase their control over health care spending.  Payors are also seeking to improve price predictability in an effort to mitigate exposure to future price increases. These changes as well as other impacts from market demand, government regulations, third-party coverage and reimbursement policies and societal pressures are changing the way healthcare is delivered, reimbursed and funded and have in the past and could in the future cause participants in the healthcare industry and related industries that we serve to purchase fewer of our products and services, reduce the prices they are willing to pay for our products or services, reduce the amounts of reimbursement and funding available for our products and services from governmental agencies or third-party payors, heighten clinical data requirements, reduce the volume of medical procedures that use our products and services, affect the acceptance rate of new technologies and products and increase our compliance and other costs.  In addition, we may be excluded from important market segments or unable to enter into contracts with group purchasing organizations and integrated health networks on terms acceptable to us, and even if we do enter into such contracts they may be on terms that negatively affect our current or future profitability.  All of the factors described above can adversely affect our business and financial statements. Non-U.S. economic, political, legal, compliance, social and business factors can negatively affect our business and financial statements. In 2022 approximately 58% of our sales were derived from customers outside the U.S.  In addition, many of our manufacturing operations, suppliers and employees are located outside the U.S.  Since our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to further penetrate markets outside the U.S. and increase the localization of our products and services, we expect to continue to increase our sales and presence outside the U.S., particularly in the high-growth markets.  Our non-U.S. business (and particularly our business in high-growth markets) is subject to risks that include: • public health crises and epidemics, such as COVID-19; 19 • interruption in the transportation of materials to us and finished goods to our customers; • differences in terms of sale, including longer payment terms than are typical in the U.S.; • local product preferences or requirements; • changes in a country’s or region’s political, legal, social, compliance, business or economic conditions, such as the devaluation of particular currencies; • trade protection measures, tariffs, embargoes and import or export restrictions and requirements; • unexpected changes in laws or regulatory requirements, including changes in tax laws; • capital controls and limitations on ownership and on repatriation of earnings and cash; • the potential for nationalization of enterprises; • changes in local healthcare delivery, payment and reimbursement policies and programs; • complex data privacy and cybersecurity requirements; • limitations on legal rights and our ability to enforce such rights, including differing protection of intellectual property; • difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; • workforce instability and differing labor or employment regulations; • difficulties in implementing restructuring actions on a timely or comprehensive basis; • greater uncertainty, risk, expense and delay in commercializing products in certain foreign jurisdictions, including with respect to product and other regulatory approvals; and • remaining uncertainties relating to the impact of the UK’s exit from the EU in 2020. International business risks have in the past and may in the future negatively affect our business and financial statements. In 2022 we generated approximately 13% of our sales from China.  Accordingly, political, economic, legal, compliance, social and business conditions in China generally can adversely influence our business and financial statements.  Additionally, China’s government continues to play a significant role in regulating industry development by imposing sector-specific policies, and it maintains control over China’s economic growth through setting monetary policy and determining treatment of particular industries or companies.  Further, considerable uncertainty exists regarding the long-term effects of the expansionary monetary and fiscal policies adopted by the central banks and financial authorities of some of the world’s leading economies, including the U.S. and China.  Uncertainty or adverse changes to conditions in China or the policies of China’s government or its laws and regulations can adversely affect the overall economic growth of China, or of the particular industries in which we participate, and can adversely affect our business and financial statements. Our growth can suffer if the markets into which we sell our products and services decline, do not grow as anticipated or experience cyclicality. Our growth depends in part on the growth of the markets which we serve, and visibility into our markets can be limited (particularly for markets into which we sell through distribution).  Our quarterly sales and profits depend substantially on the volume and timing of orders received during the quarter, which are difficult to forecast.  Any decline or lower than expected growth in our served markets can diminish demand for our products and services and adversely affect our business and financial statements.  Certain of our businesses operate in industries that have experienced and may experience periodic, cyclical downturns.  In addition, in certain of our businesses demand depends on customers’ capital spending budgets as well as government funding policies, and matters of public policy and government budget dynamics as well as product and economic cycles can affect the spending decisions of these entities.  Demand for our products and services is also sensitive to changes in customer order patterns, which may be affected by announced price changes, marketing or promotional programs, new product introductions, the timing of industry trade shows and changes in distributor or customer inventory levels due to distributor or customer management thereof or other factors.  Any of these factors could adversely affect our business and financial statements in any given period. 20 Certain of our businesses rely on relationships with collaborative partners and other third-parties for development, supply and/or marketing of certain products, potential products and technologies, and such collaborative partners or other third-parties could fail to perform sufficiently. For certain of our businesses, success in penetrating target markets depends in part on their ability to develop and maintain collaborative relationships with other companies.  Relying on collaborative relationships is risky because, among other things, our collaborative partners may (1) not devote sufficient resources to the success of our collaborations; (2) fail to obtain regulatory approvals necessary to continue the collaborations in a timely manner; (3) be acquired by other companies and terminate our collaborative partnership or become insolvent; (4) compete with us; (5) disagree with us on key details of the collaborative relationship; (6) have insufficient capital resources; (7) fail to comply with applicable laws, regulatory requirements and/or applicable contractual obligations; and (8) terminate or decline to renew existing collaborations on acceptable terms, which may require us to devote additional resources to product development and commercialization and/or cancel programs.  The realization of any of these risks could adversely affect our business and financial statements. Acquisition, Divestiture and Investment Risks Any inability to consummate acquisitions at our historical rate and at appropriate prices, and to make appropriate investments that support our long-term strategy, could negatively impact our business. Our ability to grow revenues, earnings and cash flow at or above our historic rates depends in part upon our ability to identify and successfully acquire and integrate businesses at appropriate prices and realize anticipated synergies, and to make appropriate investments that support our long-term strategy.  We may not be able to consummate acquisitions at rates similar to the past, which could adversely impact our business.  Promising acquisitions and investments are difficult to identify and complete for a number of reasons, including high valuations, competition among prospective buyers or investors, the availability of affordable funding in the capital markets and the need to satisfy applicable closing conditions and obtain applicable antitrust and other regulatory approvals on acceptable terms.  In addition, competition for acquisitions and investments has resulted and may result in higher purchase prices.  Changes in accounting or regulatory requirements or instability in the credit markets could also adversely impact our ability to consummate acquisitions and investments. Our acquisition of businesses, investments, joint ventures and other strategic relationships can negatively impact our business and financial statements. As part of our business strategy, we acquire businesses, make investments and enter into joint ventures and other strategic relationships in the ordinary course, and we also from time to time complete more significant transactions; refer to “Item 7. MD&A” for additional details.  Acquisitions, investments, joint ventures and strategic relationships involve a number of financial, accounting, managerial, operational, legal, compliance and other risks and challenges, including but not limited to the following, any of which can adversely affect our business and our financial statements: • businesses, technologies, services and products that we acquire or invest in have sometimes under-performed relative to our expectations and the price that we paid, failed to perform in accordance with our anticipated timetable or failed to achieve and/or sustain profitability; • we from time to time incur or assume significant debt in connection with our acquisitions, investments, joint ventures or strategic relationships, which can also cause a deterioration of Danaher’s credit ratings, result in increased borrowing costs and interest expense and diminish our future access to the capital markets; • acquisitions, investments, joint ventures or strategic relationships can cause our financial results to differ from our own or the investment community’s expectations in any given period, or over the long-term; • pre-closing and post-closing earnings charges can adversely impact our results in any given period, and the impact may be substantially different from period-to-period; • acquisitions, investments, joint ventures or strategic relationships can create demands on our management, operational resources and financial and internal control systems that we are unable to effectively address; • we can experience difficulty in integrating cultures, personnel, operations and financial and other controls and systems and retaining key employees and customers, and former employees of our existing businesses or businesses we acquire sometimes compete with us; • we are not always able to achieve cost savings or other synergies anticipated in connection with acquisitions, investments, joint ventures or strategic relationships; 21 • we have assumed and may assume unknown liabilities, known contingent liabilities that become realized, known liabilities that prove greater than anticipated, internal control deficiencies or exposure to regulatory sanctions resulting from the acquired company’s or investee’s activities; and the realization of any of these liabilities or deficiencies can increase our expenses, adversely affect our financial position or cause us to fail to meet our public financial reporting obligations; • in connection with acquisitions and joint ventures, we often enter into post-closing financial arrangements such as purchase price adjustments, earn-out obligations and indemnification obligations, which can have unpredictable financial results; • as a result of our acquisitions and investments, we have recorded significant goodwill and other assets on our balance sheet and if we are not able to realize the value of these assets, or if the value of our investments declines, we are required to incur impairment charges; • we may have interests that diverge from those of our joint venture partners or other strategic partners or the companies we invest in, and we are not always able to direct or influence the management and operations of the joint venture, other strategic relationship or investee in the manner we believe is most appropriate, exposing us to additional risk; and • investing in or making loans to early-stage companies often entails a high degree of risk, including uncertainty regarding the company’s ability to successfully develop new technologies and services, bring these new technologies and services to market and gain market acceptance, maintain adequate capitalization and access to cash or other forms of liquidity, and retain critical management personnel; we do not always achieve the strategic, technological, financial or commercial benefits we anticipate; we may lose our investment or fail to recoup our loan; or our investment may be illiquid for a greater-than-expected period of time. The indemnification provisions of acquisition agreements by which we have acquired companies may not fully protect us and as a result we may face unexpected liabilities. Certain of the acquisition agreements by which we have acquired companies require the former owners to indemnify us against certain liabilities related to the operation of the acquired company before we acquired it.  In most of these agreements, however, the liability of the former owners is limited and certain former owners may be unable to meet their indemnification responsibilities.  In addition, we obtain or receive the benefits of representations and warranties insurance in connection with certain acquisitions.  There can be no assurance that these indemnification provisions or insurance coverages will protect us fully or at all, and as a result we may face unexpected liabilities that adversely affect our business and financial statements. We intend to separate our Environmental & Applied Solutions segment to create a publicly-traded company in the fourth quarter of 2023.  The proposed transaction may not be completed on the currently contemplated timeline or at all and may not achieve the intended benefits. We have announced our intention to separate Danaher’s Environmental & Applied Solutions segment to create a publicly-traded company in the fourth quarter of 2023, subject to the satisfaction of customary conditions, including obtaining final approval from the Danaher Board of Directors, satisfactory completion of financing and receipt of tax opinions, favorable rulings from the Internal Revenue Service and other regulatory approvals (the “EAS Separation”).  There can be no assurance that we will be able to satisfy the necessary conditions or that we will successfully complete the anticipated separation in our preferred structure, on the anticipated timeline or at all.  Unanticipated developments, including possible delays in obtaining various tax rulings or regulatory approvals, uncertainty or declines in the financial markets or other adverse market conditions, changes in the Company’s cash requirements, challenges in establishing the new company’s organizational structure, infrastructure or processes, or adverse business performance could delay or prevent the proposed separation or cause the proposed separation to occur on terms or conditions that are less favorable and/or different than expected.  Expenses incurred to accomplish the proposed separation may be significantly higher than what we currently anticipate.  Executing the proposed separation also requires significant time and attention from management, which could distract them from other tasks in operating our business.  Even if the transaction is completed, we may not realize some or all of the anticipated benefits from the separation and there can be no assurance that the separation will yield greater net benefits to Danaher and its shareholders than if such transaction had not occurred.  Following the proposed separation, the combined value of the common stock of the two publicly-traded companies may not be equal to or greater than what the value of our common stock would have been had the separation not occurred. 22 Divestitures or other dispositions could negatively impact our business, and contingent liabilities from businesses that we or our predecessors have disposed of could adversely affect our business and financial statements. We continually assess the strategic fit of our existing businesses and may divest, spin-off, split-off or otherwise dispose of businesses for strategic, financial or other reasons.  For example, in 2015 Danaher separated and split-off to Danaher shareholders the majority of its former communications business in a Reverse Morris Trust transaction with NetScout Systems, Inc. (the “Communications Disposition”), in 2016 Danaher separated and spun-off to Danaher shareholders its former Test & Measurement segment, Industrial Technologies segment (excluding the product identification businesses) and retail/commercial petroleum business (collectively known as “Fortive Corporation”) (the “Fortive Disposition”), in 2019 Danaher consummated the separation and initial public offering (“IPO”) and subsequent split-off of its Dental segment, known as Envista Holdings Corporation (the “Envista Disposition”), and in 2022 Danaher announced the anticipated EAS Separation.  Transactions such as these pose risks and challenges that could negatively impact our business and financial statements.  For example, divestitures or other dispositions can dilute the Company’s earnings per share, have other adverse financial, tax and accounting impacts and distract management, and disputes can arise with the new owners of the divested/disposed business.  In addition, we have retained responsibility for and/or have agreed to indemnify buyers against some known and unknown contingent liabilities related to a number of businesses we or our predecessors have sold or disposed.  The resolution of these contingencies has not had a material effect on our business or financial statements but there can be no assurance that this favorable pattern will continue. Potential indemnification liabilities pursuant to the Communications Disposition, the Fortive Disposition, the Envista Disposition or the anticipated EAS Separation could adversely affect our business and financial statements. With respect to each of the Communications Disposition, the Fortive Disposition and the Envista Disposition, we entered into a separation agreement and related agreements to govern the separation and related transactions and the relationship between the respective companies going forward (and we expect to enter into similar agreements in connection with the EAS Separation).  These agreements provide for specific indemnity and liability obligations of each party that can lead to disputes between us and the respective counterparty.  If we are required to indemnify any of the other parties under the circumstances set forth in these agreements, we may be subject to substantial liabilities.  In addition, with respect to the liabilities for which the other parties have agreed to indemnify us under these agreements, there can be no assurance that the indemnity rights we have against such other parties will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of the liabilities, or that such other parties will be able to fully satisfy their respective indemnification obligations.  It is also possible that a court could disregard the allocation of assets and liabilities agreed to between Danaher and such other parties and require Danaher to assume responsibility for obligations allocated to such other parties.  Each of these risks could negatively affect our business and financial statements. We could incur significant liability if any of the Fortive Disposition, the Envista Disposition or the EAS Separation is determined to be a taxable transaction. We have received opinions from outside tax counsel to the effect that each of the Fortive Disposition and the Envista Disposition qualifies as a transaction that is described in Sections 355(a) and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code, and we anticipate obtaining a similar opinion with respect to the EAS Separation.  These opinions rely on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings regarding the past and future conduct of the companies’ respective businesses and other matters.  If any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are incorrect or not satisfied, our stockholders and we may not be able to rely on the respective opinion of tax counsel and could be subject to significant tax liabilities.  Notwithstanding the opinion of tax counsel, the IRS could determine on audit that any such transactions are taxable if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the respective opinion.  If any such transaction is determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, our stockholders that are subject to U.S. federal income tax and we could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities. Operational Risks Significant disruptions in, or breaches in security of, our information technology systems or data or violation of data privacy laws can adversely affect our business and financial statements. We rely on information technology systems, some of which are provided and/or managed by third-parties, to process, transmit and store electronic information (including sensitive data such as confidential business information and personal data relating to employees, customers, other business partners and patients), and to manage or support a variety of critical business processes and activities (such as receiving and fulfilling orders, billing, collecting and making payments, shipping products, providing services and support to customers and fulfilling contractual obligations).  In addition, some of our remote monitoring products and services incorporate software and information technology that house personal data and some products or software we sell to customers connect to our systems for maintenance or other purposes.  These systems, products and services (including those we 23 acquire through business acquisitions) can be damaged, disrupted or shut down due to attacks by computer hackers, computer viruses, ransomware, human error or malfeasance (including by employees), power outages, hardware failures, telecommunication or utility failures, catastrophes or other unforeseen events, and in any such circumstances our system redundancy and other disaster recovery planning may be ineffective or inadequate.  Attacks can also target hardware, software and information installed, stored or transmitted in our products after such products have been purchased and incorporated into third-party products, facilities or infrastructure.  Security breaches of systems provided or enabled by us, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to a vulnerability in our products or services, or security breaches of third-party suppliers we rely on to process, store or transmit electronic information, can result in the misappropriation, destruction or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information or personal data belonging to us or to our employees, partners, customers, patients or suppliers.  Like most multinational corporations, our information technology systems and data have been subject to computer viruses, malicious codes, unauthorized access and other cyber-attacks and we expect the sophistication and frequency of such attacks to continue to increase.  Unauthorized tampering, adulteration or interference with our products may also adversely affect product functionality and result in loss of data, risk to patient safety and product recalls or field actions.  The attacks, breaches, misappropriations and other disruptions and damage described above can interrupt our operations or the operations of our customers and partners, delay production and shipments, result in theft of our and our customers’ intellectual property and trade secrets, result in disclosure of personal data, damage customer, patient, business partner and employee relationships and our reputation and result in defective products or services, legal claims and proceedings, liability and penalties under privacy and other laws and increased costs for security and remediation, in each case resulting in an adverse effect on our business and financial statements.  Our liability insurance may not be sufficient in type or amount to cover us against claims related to security breaches, cyber-attacks and other related breaches. In addition, our information technology systems require an ongoing commitment of significant resources to maintain and enhance existing systems and develop new systems to keep pace with continuing changes in information processing technology, evolving legal and regulatory standards, evolving customer expectations, changes in the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to data and information systems, and the information technology needs associated with our changing products and services.  There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully maintain, enhance and upgrade our systems as necessary to effectively address these requirements.  Further, a greater number of our employees have been working remotely since the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic, which exposes us to greater cybersecurity and data privacy risks. Any inability to maintain reliable information technology systems and appropriate controls with respect to global data privacy and security requirements and prevent data breaches can result in adverse regulatory and business consequences and litigation.  As a global organization, we are subject to data privacy and security laws, regulations and customer-imposed controls in numerous jurisdictions as a result of having access to and processing confidential, personal and/or sensitive data in the course of our business.  Please see “Item 1. Business—Regulatory Matters” for additional information.  For example, entities that are found to be in violation of HIPAA as the result of a breach of unsecured patient health information, a complaint about privacy practices or an audit by HHS, may be subject to significant civil, criminal and administrative fines and penalties and/or additional reporting and oversight obligations.  Failure to comply with the requirements of the GDPR and the applicable national data protection laws of the EU member states and other states subject to the GDPR may result in fines of up to €20 million or up to 4% of total worldwide annual turnover for the preceding financial year, whichever is higher, and other administrative penalties.  Several other countries such as China and Russia have passed, and other countries have passed or are considering passing, laws that require some or all personal data relating to their citizens to be maintained on local servers or impose significant restrictions on data transfer.  State privacy laws in California impose some of the same features as the GDPR and have prompted several other states to enact similar laws.  Additionally, a bipartisan bill under consideration in Congress would, if adopted, impose broad privacy requirements at the U.S. federal level and provide enhanced enforcement authority to the FTC.  Government investigations and enforcement actions can be costly and interrupt the regular operation of our business, and data breaches or violations of data privacy laws can result in civil and criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties and damage to customer, patient, business partner and employee relationships and to our reputation, any of which may adversely affect our business and financial statements.  In addition, compliance with the varying data privacy regulations across the U.S. and around the world has required significant expenditures and may require additional expenditures, and may require further changes in our products or business models that increase competition or reduce revenue. Defects and unanticipated use or inadequate disclosure with respect to our products or services, or allegations thereof, can adversely affect our business and financial statements. Manufacturing or design defects or “bugs” in, unanticipated use of, safety or quality issues (or the perception of such issues) with respect to, “off label” use of, or inadequate disclosure of risks relating to the use of products and services that we make or sell (including items that we source from third-parties) can lead to personal injury, death, property damage and/or regulatory violations that can adversely affect our business and financial statements.  These events can lead to recalls or safety alerts, result in the removal of a product or service from the market and result in product liability or similar claims being brought against us.  The accelerated development and production of products and services in an effort to address the COVID-19 pandemic also 24 increased the risk of regulatory enforcement actions, product defects or claims thereof.  Recalls, removals and product liability and similar claims (regardless of their validity or ultimate outcome) can result in significant costs, as well as negative publicity and damage to our reputation that could reduce demand for our products and services.  Our business can also be affected by studies of the utilization, safety and efficacy of medical device products and components that are conducted by industry participants, government agencies and others.  Any of the above can result in the discontinuation of marketing of such products in one or more countries and give rise to claims for damages from persons who believe they have been injured as a result of product issues, including claims by individuals or groups seeking to represent a class. If we suffer loss to our facilities, supply chains, distribution systems or information technology systems due to catastrophe or other events, our operations could be seriously harmed. Our facilities, supply chains, distribution systems and information technology systems are subject to catastrophic loss due to fire, flood, cyber-attack, earthquake, hurricane, power shortage or outage, public health crisis (including epidemics and pandemics) and the reaction thereto, war, terrorism, riot, public protest or other natural or man-made disasters, such as the COVID-19 pandemic and the damage caused to our facilities by Hurricane Maria in Puerto Rico in 2017.  If any of these facilities, supply chains or systems were to experience a catastrophic loss, it could disrupt our operations, delay production and shipments, result in defective products or services, diminish demand, damage customer relationships and our reputation and result in legal exposure and significant repair or replacement expenses.  The third-party insurance coverage that we maintain varies from time to time in both type and amount depending on cost, availability and our decisions regarding risk retention, and may be unavailable or insufficient to protect us against such losses. Climate change, legal or regulatory measures to address climate change and any inability on our part to address stakeholder expectations relating to climate change may negatively affect us. Climate change resulting from increased concentrations of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere presents risks to our operations.  Physical risk resulting from acute changes (such as hurricane, tornado, wildfire or flooding) or chronic changes (such as droughts, heat waves or sea level changes) in climate patterns can adversely impact our facilities and operations and disrupt our supply chains and distribution systems.  Concern over climate change can also result in new or additional legal, regulatory or quasi-regulatory requirements designed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and/or mitigate the effects of climate change on the environment (such as taxation of, or caps on the use of, carbon-based energy).  Any such new or additional requirements may increase the costs associated with, or disrupt, sourcing, manufacturing and distribution of our products, which may adversely affect our business and financial statements.  In addition, any failure to adequately address stakeholder expectations with respect to environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) matters may result in the loss of business, adverse reputational impacts, diluted market valuations and challenges in attracting and retaining customers and talented employees.  For example, our ability to achieve our current and future ESG goals is uncertain and remains subject to numerous risks, including evolving regulatory requirements and stakeholder expectations, our ability to recruit, develop and retain a diverse workforce, the availability of suppliers and other business partners that can meet our ESG expectations, the effects of the organic and inorganic growth of our business, cost considerations and the development and availability of cost-effective technologies or resources that support our goals. The manufacture of many of our products is a highly exacting and complex process, and if we directly or indirectly encounter problems manufacturing products, our business and financial statements could suffer. The manufacture of many of our products is a highly exacting and complex process, due in part to strict regulatory requirements.  Problems can arise during manufacturing for a variety of reasons, including equipment malfunction, failure to follow specific protocols and procedures, problems with raw materials or components, cyber-attacks, natural disasters and environmental factors, and if not discovered before the product is released to market can result in recalls and product liability exposure.  Because of the time required to approve and license certain regulated manufacturing facilities and other stringent regulations of the FDA and similar agencies regarding the manufacture of certain of our products, an alternative manufacturer is not always available on a timely basis to replace such production capacity.  Any of these manufacturing problems could result in adverse impacts to our business and financial statements. Our financial results are subject to fluctuations in the cost and availability of the supplies that we use in, and the labor we need for, our operations. Prices for and availability of the components, raw materials and other commodities we use in our business, as well as for labor, have fluctuated significantly in the past, including during 2022.  Please see “Item 1. Business-Materials” for a discussion of the inputs we use in our business, supply chain and labor availability disruptions and constraints our businesses have faced and are facing, and the adverse impacts that we have incurred and may incur relating thereto.  The supply chains for our businesses can be disrupted by supplier capacity constraints, fluctuations in demand, decreased availability of key raw materials or commodities, legislative or regulatory changes, bankruptcy or exiting of the business for other reasons and external events such 25 as natural disasters, pandemic health issues, war, terrorist actions and governmental actions (such as trade protectionism). In addition, some of our businesses purchase certain requirements from sole or limited source suppliers for reasons of quality assurance, regulatory requirements, cost effectiveness, availability or uniqueness of design.  In the event of interruptions in the supply, or increases in the cost, of such supplies, we might not be able to quickly establish or qualify replacement sources of supply.  Sustained interruptions in the supply of, or increase in the cost of, key components, raw materials, other commodities and labor can result in production interruptions, delays, extended lead times and inefficiencies and adversely affect our business and financial statements.  In addition, due to the highly competitive nature of the industries that we serve, the cost-containment efforts of our customers and the terms of certain contracts we are party to, when supply and labor prices rise we are not always able to pass along cost increases through higher prices for our products.  If we are unable to fully recover higher supply and labor costs through price increases or offset these increases through cost reductions, or if there is a time delay between the increase in costs and our ability to recover or offset these costs, our margins and profitability can decline and our business and financial statements can be adversely affected. Our profitability could also be adversely impacted if we are unable to adjust our purchases to reflect changes in customer demand and market fluctuations, including those caused by seasonality or cyclicality.  During a market upturn, suppliers from time to time extend lead times, limit supplies or increase prices.  Conversely, in order to secure supplies for the production of products, we sometimes enter into noncancelable purchase commitments with vendors, which can impact our ability to adjust our inventory to reflect declining market demands.  Because we cannot always immediately adapt our production capacity and related cost structures to changing market conditions, at times our manufacturing capacity exceeds or falls short of our production requirements.  Any or all of these problems can result in the loss of customers or cost inefficiencies, provide an opportunity for competing products to gain market acceptance and otherwise adversely affect our business and financial statements. Adverse changes in our relationships with, or the financial condition, performance, purchasing patterns or inventory levels of, key distributors and other channel partners can adversely affect our business and financial statements. Certain of our businesses sell a significant amount of their products to or through key distributors and other channel partners that have valuable relationships with customers and end-users.  Some of these distributors and other partners also sell our competitors’ products or compete with us directly, and if they favor competing products for any reason they may fail to market our products effectively.  Adverse changes in our relationships with these distributors and other partners, reduction or discontinuation of their purchases from us or adverse developments in their financial condition, performance or purchasing patterns, can adversely affect our business and financial statements. The levels of inventory maintained by our key distributors and other channel partners, and changes in those levels, also impacts our results of operations in any given period.  In addition, the consolidation of distributors and customers in certain of our served industries can adversely impact our business and financial statements. Our success depends on our ability to recruit, retain and motivate talented employees representing diverse backgrounds, experiences and skill sets. The market for highly skilled workers and leaders in our industries, particularly in the areas of science and technology, is extremely competitive and expectations from qualified talent in many areas of the labor market have evolved and escalated recently.  In addition, in 2022 we faced labor availability constraints and labor cost inflation in certain areas of our business.  If we are less successful in our recruiting efforts, if we cannot retain and motivate highly skilled workers and key leaders representing diverse backgrounds, experiences and skill sets, or if we experience labor disputes, our business and financial statements may be adversely affected. Our restructuring actions can have long-term adverse effects on our business and financial statements. We have implemented significant restructuring activities across our businesses to adjust our cost structure, and we may engage in similar restructuring activities in the future.  These restructuring activities and our regular ongoing cost reduction activities could diminish our resources and competitiveness, and delays or failures in implementing planned restructuring activities may diminish the expected operational or financial benefits from such actions.  Any of the circumstances described above could adversely impact our business and financial statements. 26 Intellectual Property Risks If we are unable to adequately protect our intellectual property, or if third-parties infringe our intellectual property rights, we may suffer competitive injury or expend significant resources enforcing our rights.  These risks are particularly pronounced in countries in which we do business that do not have levels of protection of intellectual property comparable to the United States. Many of the markets we serve are technology-driven, and as a result intellectual property rights play a significant role in product development and differentiation.  We own numerous patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and other intellectual property and licenses to intellectual property owned by others, which in aggregate are important to our business.  The intellectual property rights that we obtain, however, are not always sufficiently broad and do not always provide us a significant competitive advantage, and patents may not be issued for pending or future patent applications owned by or licensed to us.  In addition, the steps that we and our licensors have taken to maintain and protect our intellectual property do not always prevent it from being challenged, invalidated, circumvented, designed-around or becoming subject to compulsory licensing.  In some circumstances, enforcement is not available to us because an infringer has a dominant intellectual property position or for other business reasons.  We also rely on nondisclosure and noncompetition agreements with employees, consultants and other parties to protect, in part, trade secrets and other proprietary rights.  There can be no assurance that these agreements adequately protect our trade secrets and other proprietary rights and will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information or that third-parties will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or other proprietary rights.  Our failure to obtain or maintain intellectual property rights that convey competitive advantage and adequately protect our intellectual property; our failure to detect or prevent circumvention or unauthorized use of such property and the cost of enforcing our intellectual property rights each can adversely impact our business and financial statements. These risks are particularly pronounced in countries in which we do business that do not have levels of protection of corporate proprietary information, intellectual property, technology and other assets comparable to the United States.  The risks we encounter in such countries include but are not limited to the following: • Joint ventures that we participate in can include restrictions that could compromise our control over the intellectual property, technology and proprietary information of the joint venture; • As we expand our operations globally, increasing amounts of our data, intellectual property and technology is used and stored in countries outside the United States, and regulations in certain countries require data to be stored locally.  These factors increase the risk that such data, intellectual property and technology could be stolen or otherwise compromised; • Certain of our products have been counterfeited and we may encounter additional and/or increased levels of counterfeiting in the future; • Governmental entities may adopt regulations or other requirements that give them rights to certain of our intellectual property, technology and/or proprietary information, such as through compulsory licensing or ownership restrictions or requirements; • In certain countries, we do not have the same ability to enforce intellectual property rights as we do in the U.S.; • Governmental regulations relating to state secrecy or other topics limit our ability to transfer data or technology out of certain jurisdictions; and • Risks, costs and challenges of operating in a particular jurisdiction can result in a decision to relocate or divert operations to a different jurisdiction, potentially at higher cost. Any of these risks can adversely impact our business and financial statements.  Refer to “—International economic, political, legal, compliance, social and business factors could negatively affect our financial statements” for a discussion of additional risks relating to our international operations. Third-parties from time to time claim that we are infringing or misappropriating their intellectual property rights and we could suffer significant litigation expenses, losses or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling products or services. From time to time, we receive notices from third parties alleging intellectual property infringement or misappropriation of third parties’ intellectual property and cannot be certain that the conduct of our business does not and will not infringe or misappropriate the intellectual property rights of others.  Disputes or litigations regarding intellectual property can be costly and time-consuming to defend due to the complexity of many of our technologies and the uncertainty of intellectual property 27 litigation.  Our intellectual property portfolio may not be useful in asserting a counterclaim, or negotiating a license, in response to a claim of infringement or misappropriation.  In addition, as a result of such claims of infringement or misappropriation, we could lose our rights to critical technology, be unable to license critical technology or sell critical products and services, be required to pay substantial damages or license fees with respect to the infringed rights, be required to license technology or other intellectual property rights from others, be required to cease marketing, manufacturing or using certain products or be required to redesign, re-engineer or re-brand our products at substantial cost, any of which could adversely impact our business and financial statements.  Third-party intellectual property rights may also make it more difficult or expensive for us to meet market demand for particular product or design innovations.  When we are required to seek licenses under patents or other intellectual property rights of others, we are not always able to acquire these licenses on acceptable terms, if at all.  Even if we successfully defend against claims of infringement or misappropriation, we may incur significant costs and diversion of management attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business and financial statements. The U.S. government has certain rights with respect to incremental production capacity attributable to, and/or the intellectual property we have developed using government financing.  In addition, in times of national emergency the U.S. government could also control our allocation of manufacturing capacity. Certain agencies of the U.S. government, such as the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority (“BARDA”) within the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, have agreed to finance an expansion of production capacity and/or the development of technology at certain of our businesses, and our businesses may enter into similar agreements in the future.  In consideration of this financing the U.S. government has certain rights, including rights with respect to the allocation of certain of the incremental production capacity associated with such expansion and/or rights in intellectual property produced with its financial assistance.  If the U.S. government exercises its rights with respect to our intellectual property or allocating our production capacity, our business and financial statements could be negatively impacted. In addition, to optimize availability of needed medical and other products in connection with any pandemic or other national emergency, we may elect or governments may require us or our customers to allocate manufacturing capacity (for example, pursuant to the U.S. Defense Production Act (“DPA”)) in a way that adversely affects our financial condition and results of operations, results in differential treatment of customers and/or adversely affects our reputation and customer relationships.  For example, certain of our customers are or have been subject to DPA requirements relating to the production of COVID-19 related products and have required certain of our businesses to also comply with these requirements under our supply agreements.  Under such circumstances, the levels of demand for our products can exceed our capacity to meet such demand on a timely basis or at all, which can result in negative publicity, competitive disadvantage and legal liability, and may adversely affect our business and financial statements. Financial and Tax Risks Our outstanding debt has increased significantly as a result of acquisitions, and we may incur additional debt in the future.  Our existing and future indebtedness may limit our operations and our use of our cash flow and negatively impact our credit ratings; and any failure to comply with the covenants that apply to our indebtedness could adversely affect our business and financial statements. As of December 31, 2022, we had approximately $19.7 billion in outstanding indebtedness.  In addition, we had the ability to incur approximately $3.0 billion of additional indebtedness in direct borrowings or under our outstanding commercial paper facilities based on the amounts available under our credit facilities that were not being used to backstop outstanding commercial paper balances.  Our debt level and related debt service obligations (as well as the dividend obligations pursuant to our Series B Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock (“MCPS”)) can have negative consequences, including (1) requiring us to dedicate significant cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our debt (or dividends on our MCPS), which reduces the funds we have available for other purposes such as acquisitions and other investments; (2) reducing our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and market conditions; and (3) exposing us to interest rate risk on any variable rate debt we may issue.  If our credit ratings are downgraded or put on watch for a potential downgrade, we may not be able to sell additional debt securities or borrow money in the amounts, at the times or interest rates or upon the more favorable terms and conditions that might be available if our current credit ratings were maintained. Our credit facilities and long-term debt obligations also impose certain restrictions on us, including certain restrictions on our ability to incur liens on our assets, and a requirement under our credit facilities to maintain a consolidated leverage ratio (the ratio of consolidated indebtedness to consolidated indebtedness plus shareholders’ equity) of 0.65 to 1.0 or less.  If we breach any of these restrictions and cannot obtain a waiver from the lenders on favorable terms, subject to applicable cure periods, the outstanding indebtedness (and any other indebtedness with cross-default provisions) could be declared immediately due and payable, which would adversely affect our business and financial statements (including our liquidity).  If we add new debt in the future, the risks described above would increase. 28 We may be required to recognize impairment charges for our goodwill and other intangible assets. As of December 31, 2022, the net carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets totaled approximately $60.1 billion.  Significant negative industry or economic trends, disruptions to our business, inability to effectively integrate acquired businesses, unexpected significant changes or planned changes in use of our assets, changes in the structure of our business, divestitures, market capitalization declines, or increases in associated discount rates can impair our goodwill and other intangible assets.  In the past, we have recognized impairment charges relating to certain non-goodwill intangible assets, and in the future, we could recognize charges related to the impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets. Any such impairment charges adversely affect our financial statements in the periods recognized. Foreign currency exchange rates can adversely affect our financial statements. Sales and purchases in currencies other than the U.S. dollar expose us to fluctuations in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar, which have in the past and may in the future adversely affect our financial statements.  Increased strength of the U.S. dollar increases the effective price of our products sold in U.S. dollars into other countries, which can adversely affect sales or require us to lower our prices.  Decreased strength of the U.S. dollar adversely affects the cost of materials, products and services we purchase overseas.  Sales and expenses of our non-U.S. businesses are also translated into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes and the strengthening of the U.S. dollar generally results in unfavorable translation effects.  In addition, certain of our businesses invoice customers in a currency other than the business’ functional currency, and movements in the invoiced currency relative to the functional currency can also result in unfavorable translation effects.  The Company also faces exchange rate risk from its investments in subsidiaries owned and operated in foreign countries. Changes in our tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities or assessments can affect our profitability.  In addition, audits by tax authorities can result in additional tax payments for prior periods. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and in numerous non-U.S. jurisdictions.  Due to the potential for changes to tax laws and regulations or changes to the interpretation thereof (including regulations and interpretations pertaining to the U.S. Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“TCJA”)), the ambiguity of tax laws and regulations, the subjectivity of factual interpretations, the complexity of our intercompany arrangements, uncertainties regarding the geographic mix of earnings in any particular period, and other factors, our estimates of effective tax rate and income tax assets and liabilities can be incorrect and our financial statements could be adversely affected; please refer to “Item 7. MD&A” for a discussion of additional factors that may adversely affect our effective tax rate and decrease our profitability in any period.  The impact of the factors referenced in the preceding sentence may be substantially different from period-to-period.  In addition, the amount of income taxes we pay is subject to ongoing audits by U.S. federal, state and local tax authorities and by non-U.S. tax authorities, such as the audits described in MD&A and the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements.  If audits result in payments or assessments different from our reserves, our results can be adversely affected.  Any further changes to the tax system in the United States or in other jurisdictions could also adversely affect our financial statements. Changes in tax law relating to multinational corporations could adversely affect our tax position. Legislative bodies and government agencies in the U.S. and other countries as well as the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (“OECD”) have focused on issues related to the taxation of multinational corporations.  One example is in the area of “base erosion and profit shifting,” for which the OECD has released several components of its comprehensive plan that have been adopted and expanded by many taxing authorities to address perceived tax abuse and inconsistencies between tax jurisdictions.  As a result, the tax laws in the U.S. and other countries in which we do business could change on a prospective or retroactive basis, and any such changes could adversely affect our business and financial statements. The military conflict between Russia and Ukraine has adversely affected and may further adversely affect our business and financial statements. The military conflict between Russia and Ukraine has adversely affected and may further adversely affect our business and financial statements.  In light of the situation in Ukraine, in addition to suspending sales prohibited by sanctions, the Company has suspended the shipment of products to Russia with the exception of products for the purposes of diagnosing and treating patients and producing vaccines and therapeutics.  We incurred a pretax charge of $43 million in 2022 as a result of Russia-related asset impairments, accruals for contractual obligations and similar items and we may incur additional charges in the future.  In 2021, approximately 1% of the Company’s sales were derived from customers based in Russia and a de minimis percentage of sales were derived from customers based in Ukraine, and in 2022 Russia and Ukraine sales accounted for less than 1% of the Company’s sales.  The conflict in Ukraine may escalate and/or expand in scope and the broader consequences of this conflict, which have included and/or may in the future include sanctions, embargoes, regional instability, geopolitical shifts and adverse impacts on energy supplies and prices; potential retaliatory action by the Russian government against companies, 29 including the Company, such as nationalization of foreign businesses in Russia.  Further, increased tensions between the United States and countries in which we operate cannot be predicted, nor can we predict the conflict’s future impact on the global economy and on our business and financial statements. The Russia and Ukraine conflict also heightens many other risks disclosed in this Annual Report, any of which can adversely affect our business and financial statements.  Such risks include, but are not limited to, adverse effects on macroeconomic conditions, including increased inflation, constraints on the availability of commodities, supply chain disruption and decreased business spending; disruptions to our or our business partners’ global technology infrastructure, including through cyber-attack or cyber-intrusion; adverse changes in international trade policies and relations; claims, litigation and regulatory enforcement; our ability to implement and execute our business strategy; terrorist activities; our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations; reputational risk; and constraints, volatility, or disruption in the capital markets. Our defined benefit pension plans and health care costs are subject to financial and other market risks that could adversely affect our financial statements. Significant changes in market interest rates, decreases in the fair value of plan assets, investment losses on plan assets and changes in discount rates can increase our defined benefit pension plan funding obligations, and upward pressure on the cost of providing health care coverage to current employees and retirees can increase our future funding obligations.  Any of these risks can adversely affect our financial statements. Legal, Regulatory, Compliance and Reputational Risks Significant developments or changes in national laws or policies to protect or promote domestic interests and/or address foreign competition can have an adverse effect on our business and financial statements. Significant developments or changes in national laws or policies to protect or promote domestic interests and/or address foreign competition, including laws and policies in areas such as trade, manufacturing, government purchasing, health care, intellectual property and investment/development, can adversely affect our business and financial statements.  For example, certain governments have implemented policies to induce “re-shoring” of supply chains, reduce reliance on imported supplies and promote national production.  The Chinese government has issued a series of policies in the past several years to promote the development and use of local medical devices.  In addition, in recent years the U.S. has increased tariffs on certain imported goods and trade tensions between the U.S. and China escalated, with each country imposing significant, additional tariffs on a wide range of goods imported from the other country. Our business and financial statements can be impaired by improper conduct by any of our employees, agents or business partners. There can be no assurance that our internal controls and compliance systems, including our Code of Conduct, always protect us from acts committed by employees, agents or business partners of ours (or of businesses we acquire or partner with) that violate laws, including the laws governing payments to government officials, bribery, fraud, kickbacks and false claims, pricing, sales and marketing practices, conflicts of interest, competition, employment practices and workplace behavior, export and import compliance, economic and trade sanctions, money laundering and data privacy.  In particular, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business, and we operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree.  Any such improper actions or allegations of such acts could damage our reputation and subject us to civil or criminal investigations and related shareholder lawsuits, could lead to substantial civil and criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties and could cause us to incur significant legal and investigatory fees.  In addition, the government may seek to hold us liable for violations committed by companies in which we invest or that we acquire.  We also rely on our suppliers to adhere to our Supplier Code of Conduct, and violations of such code of conduct could adversely affect our business and financial statements. Our businesses are subject to extensive regulation; failure to comply with those regulations could adversely affect our business and financial statements. In addition to the environmental, health, safety, health care, medical device, anticorruption, data privacy and other regulations noted elsewhere in this Annual Report, our businesses are subject to extensive regulation by U.S. and non-U.S. governmental and self-regulatory entities at the supranational, federal, state, local and other jurisdictional levels, including for example the following: • We are required to comply with various import laws and export control and economic sanctions laws, which may affect our transactions with certain customers, business partners and other persons and dealings between our 30 employees and between our subsidiaries.  In certain circumstances, export control and economic sanctions regulations may prohibit the export of certain products, services and technologies.  In other circumstances, we may be required to obtain an export license before exporting the controlled item.  Compliance with the various import laws that apply to our businesses can restrict our access to, and increase the cost of obtaining, certain products and at times can interrupt our supply of imported inventory.  In addition, we sell and provide products and technology to third parties, such as agents, representatives and distributors, who may export such items to end-users.  If we or any of these third parties do not comply with applicable export or import laws we may incur liability.  In addition, from time to time, certain of our subsidiaries have limited business dealings in countries subject to comprehensive sanctions.  These business dealings represent an insignificant amount of our consolidated revenues and income but expose us to a heightened risk of violating applicable sanctions regulations.  We have established policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with such laws and regulations but there can be no assurance that the policies and procedures have prevented and will prevent violations of these regulations, and any such violation can adversely affect our business and financial statements. • We also have agreements to sell products and services to government entities (as well as agreements relating to government financing, as discussed above) and are subject to various statutes and regulations that apply to companies doing business with government entities (less than 5% of our 2022 sales were made to the U.S. federal government).  The laws governing government contracts differ from the laws governing private contracts.  For example, many government contracts contain pricing and other terms and conditions that are not applicable to private contracts.  Our agreements with government entities are in some cases subject to termination, reduction or modification at the convenience of the government or in the event of changes in government requirements, reductions in federal spending and other factors, and we may underestimate our costs of performing under the contract.  In certain cases, a governmental entity may require us to pay back amounts it has paid to us.  Government contracts that have been awarded to us following a bid process can become the subject of a bid protest by a losing bidder, which could result in loss of the contract.  We are also subject to investigation and audit for compliance with the requirements governing government contracts. These are not the only regulations that our businesses must comply with.  The regulations we are subject to have tended to become more stringent over time and can be inconsistent across jurisdictions.  We, our representatives and the industries in which we operate are at times under review and/or investigation by regulatory authorities.  Failure to comply (or any alleged or perceived failure to comply) with the regulations referenced above or any other regulations can result in import detentions, fines, damages, civil and administrative penalties, injunctions, consent decrees, suspensions or losses of regulatory approvals, recall or seizure of products, operating restrictions, refusal of the government to approve product export applications or allow us to enter into supply contracts, disbarment from selling to certain governmental agencies or exclusion from government funded healthcare programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid or similar programs in other countries or jurisdictions, integrity oversight and reporting obligations to resolve allegations of non-compliance, disruption of our business, limitation on our ability to manufacture, import, export and sell products and services, loss of customers, significant legal and investigatory fees, disgorgement, individual imprisonment, reputational harm, contractual damages, diminished profits, curtailment or restricting of business operations, criminal prosecution and other monetary and non-monetary penalties.  Compliance with these and other regulations can also affect our returns on investment, require us to incur significant expenses or modify our business model or impair our flexibility in modifying product, marketing, pricing or other strategies for growing our business.  Our products and operations are also often subject to the rules of industrial standards bodies such as the International Standards Organization, and failure to comply with these rules can result in withdrawal of certifications needed to sell our products and services and otherwise adversely impact our business and financial statements.  For additional information regarding these risks, refer to “Item 1. Business—Regulatory Matters.” We are subject to or otherwise responsible for a variety of litigation and other legal and regulatory proceedings in the course of our business that can adversely affect our business and financial statements. We are subject to or otherwise responsible for a variety of litigation and other legal and regulatory proceedings in the course of our business (or related to the business operations of previously owned entities), including claims or counterclaims for damages arising out of the use of products or services and claims relating to intellectual property matters, employment matters, tax matters, commercial disputes, breach of contract claims, competition and sales and trading practices, environmental matters, personal injury, insurance coverage, securities matters, fiduciary duties and acquisition or divestiture-related matters, as well as regulatory subpoenas, requests for information, investigations and enforcement.  We also from time to time become subject to lawsuits as a result of acquisitions or as a result of liabilities retained from, or representations, warranties or indemnities provided in connection with, businesses divested by us or our predecessors.  The types of claims made in lawsuits include claims for compensatory damages, punitive and consequential damages (and in some cases, treble damages) and/or injunctive relief.  The defense of these lawsuits can divert our management’s attention, we from time to time incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits, and we can be required to pay damage awards or settlements or become subject to equitable remedies 31 that adversely affect our business and financial statements.  Moreover, any insurance or indemnification rights that we may have may be insufficient or unavailable to protect us against such losses.  Because most contingencies are resolved over long periods of time, new developments (including litigation developments, the discovery of new facts, changes in legislation and outcomes of similar cases), changes in assumptions or changes in the Company’s strategy in any given period can require us to adjust the loss contingency estimates that we have recorded in our financial statements, record estimates for liabilities or assets previously not susceptible of reasonable estimates or pay cash settlements or judgments.  Any of these developments can adversely affect our business and financial statements in any particular period.  There can be no assurance that our liabilities in connection with current and future litigation and other legal and regulatory proceedings will not exceed our estimates or adversely affect our financial statements and business.  However, based on our experience, information and applicable law as of the date of this Annual Report, we do not believe that it is reasonably possible that any amounts we may be required to pay in connection with litigation and other legal and regulatory proceedings in excess of our reserves as of December 31, 2022 will have a material effect on our business or financial statements. From time to time, we become aware through our internal audits and other internal control procedures, employees or other parties of possible compliance matters, such as complaints or concerns relating to accounting, internal controls, financial reporting, auditing or ethical matters or relating to compliance with laws.  When we become aware of such possible compliance matters, we investigate internally and take what we believe to be appropriate corrective action.  Internal investigations can lead to the assertion of claims or the commencement of legal or regulatory proceedings against us and adversely affect our business and financial statements. Certain of our businesses are subject to extensive regulation by the FDA and by comparable agencies of other countries, as well as laws regulating fraud and abuse in the healthcare industry and the privacy and security of health information.  Failure to comply with those regulations could adversely affect our business and financial statements. Certain of our products are medical devices and other products that are subject to regulation by the FDA, by other federal and state governmental agencies, by comparable agencies of other countries and regions, by certain accrediting bodies and by regulations governing hazardous materials and drugs-of-abuse (or the manufacture and sale of products containing any such materials).  The global health care regulatory environment has become increasingly stringent and unpredictable.  Several countries that did not have regulatory requirements for medical devices have established such requirements in recent years, and other countries have expanded, or plan to expand, their existing regulations.  For example, the proposed Verifying Accurate Leading-edge IVCT Development (VALID) Act would give FDA additional authority to regulate in vitro diagnostics, including laboratory-developed tests.  Please see “Item 1. Business—Regulatory Matters” for more information.  Failure to meet these requirements can adversely impact our business and financial statements in the applicable geographies. To varying degrees, these regulators require us to comply with laws and regulations governing the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, marketing, distribution and post-marketing surveillance of our products.  We cannot guarantee that we will be able to obtain regulatory clearance (such as 510(k) clearance) or approvals for our new products or modifications to (or additional indications or uses of) existing products within our anticipated timeframe or at all, and if we do obtain such clearance or approval it may be time-consuming, costly and subject to restrictions.  Our ability to obtain such regulatory clearances or approvals will depend on many factors, for example our ability to obtain the necessary clinical trial results, and the process for obtaining such clearances or approvals could change over time and may require the withdrawal of products from the market until such clearances are obtained.  Even after initial regulatory clearance or approval, we are subject to periodic inspection by these regulatory authorities, and if safety issues arise we can be required to amend conditions for use of a product, such as providing additional warnings on the product’s label or narrowing its approved intended use, which could reduce the product’s market acceptance.  We are also subject to various laws regulating fraud and abuse, research and development, pricing and sales and marketing practices, the privacy and security of health information as well as manufacturing and quality standards, including the federal regulations described in “Item 1. Business—Regulatory Matters.” Government authorities may conclude that our business practices do not comply with current or future statutes, regulations, agency guidance or case law.  Failure to obtain required regulatory clearances or approvals before marketing our products (or before implementing modifications to or promoting additional indications or uses of our products), other violations of laws or regulations, failure to remediate inspectional observations to the satisfaction of these regulatory authorities, real or perceived efficacy or safety concerns or trends of adverse events with respect to our products (even after obtaining clearance for distribution) and unfavorable or inconsistent clinical data from existing or future clinical trials can lead to FDA Form 483 Inspectional Observations, warning letters, notices to customers, declining sales, loss of customers, loss of market share, remediation and increased compliance costs, recalls, seizures of adulterated or misbranded products, fines, expenses, injunctions, civil penalties, criminal penalties, consent decrees, administrative detentions, refusals to permit importations, partial or total shutdown of production facilities or the implementation of operating restrictions, narrowing of permitted uses for a product, refusal of the government to grant 510(k) clearance, suspension or withdrawal of approvals, pre-market notification rescissions and other adverse effects referenced under the risk factor titled “Our businesses are subject to extensive regulation; 32 failure to comply with those regulations could adversely affect our business and financial statements.”  Further, defending against any such actions can be costly and time-consuming and may require significant personnel resources.  Therefore, even if we are successful in defending against any such actions brought against us, our business may be impaired.  Ensuring that our operations and business arrangements with third parties comply with applicable laws and regulations also involves substantial costs. Our products can be subject to human clinical trials, the results of which may be unexpected, or perceived as unfavorable by the market, and could adversely affect our business and financial statements. As a part of the regulatory process of obtaining marketing clearance for certain new products and new indications for certain existing products, we conduct and participate in clinical trials with a variety of study designs, patient populations and trial endpoints.  Unexpected or inconsistent clinical data from existing or future clinical trials, or a regulator’s or market perception of these clinical data, can adversely impact our ability to obtain product approvals, our position in, and share of, the markets in which we participate and our business and financial statements. Off-label marketing of our products could result in substantial penalties. The FDA strictly regulates the promotional claims that may be made about approved or cleared products.  In particular, any clearances we may receive only permit us to market our products for the intended uses indicated on the labeling cleared by the FDA.  We may request additional label indications for our current products, and the FDA may deny those requests outright, require additional performance or clinical data to support any additional indications or impose limitations on the intended use of any cleared products as a condition of clearance.  If the FDA or any other regulator determines that we have marketed our products for off-label use, we can be subject to exclusion from participation in government healthcare programs and the other adverse effects referenced under the risk factors set forth above.  Any of these events could significantly harm our business and financial statements. Certain modifications to our products may require new 510(k) clearances or other marketing authorizations and may require us to recall or cease marketing our products. Once a medical device is permitted to be legally marketed in the United States pursuant to a 510(k) clearance or a premarket approval (“PMA”), a manufacturer may be required to notify the FDA of certain modifications to the device (similar requirements apply in other jurisdictions).  Manufacturers determine in the first instance whether a change to a product requires a new 510(k) clearance or premarket submission, but the FDA may review any manufacturer’s decision.  The FDA may not agree with our decisions regarding whether new clearances are necessary.  We have made modifications to our products in the past and have determined based on our review of the applicable FDA regulations and guidance that in certain instances new 510(k) clearances or other premarket submissions were not required.  We may make similar modifications or add additional features in the future that we believe do not require a new clearance or approval.  If the FDA disagrees with our determinations and requires us to submit new 510(k) notifications or PMA applications, we may be required to cease marketing or to recall the modified product until we obtain clearance, and we may be subject to civil and criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties and damage to our reputation. Our operations, products and services expose us to the risk of environmental, health and safety liabilities, costs and violations that could adversely affect our business and financial statements. Our operations, products and services are subject to numerous U.S. federal, state, local and non-U.S. environmental, health and safety laws and regulations concerning, among other things, the health and safety of our employees, the generation, storage, use and transportation of hazardous materials, emissions or discharges of substances into the environment, investigation and remediation of hazardous substances or materials at various sites, chemical constituents in products and end-of-life disposal and take-back programs for products sold.  There can be no assurance that our environmental, health and safety compliance program (or the compliance programs of businesses we acquire) have been or will at all times be effective.  Failure to comply with any of these laws can result in civil and criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties and damage to our reputation.  In addition, there can be no assurance that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws will not exceed our estimates or adversely affect our business or financial statements. In addition, we from time to time incur costs related to remedial efforts or alleged environmental damage associated with past or current waste disposal practices or other hazardous materials handling practices.  We are also from time to time party to personal injury, property damage or other claims brought by private parties alleging injury or damage due to the presence of or exposure to hazardous substances.  We can also become subject to additional remedial, compliance or personal injury costs due to future events such as changes in existing laws or regulations, changes in agency direction or enforcement policies, developments in remediation technologies, changes in the conduct of our operations and changes in accounting rules.  There can be no assurance that our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances will not exceed our estimates or adversely affect our reputation and financial statements or that we will not be subject to additional 33 claims for personal injury or remediation in the future based on our past, present or future business activities.  However, based on the information we have as of the date of this Annual Report we do not believe that it is reasonably possible that any amounts we may be required to pay in connection with environmental matters in excess of our reserves as of December 31, 2022, will have a material effect on our business or financial statements. Changes in governmental regulations can reduce demand for our products or services or increase our expenses. We compete in markets in which we and our customers must comply with supranational, federal, state, local and other jurisdictional regulations, such as regulations governing health and safety, the environment, food and drugs and privacy.  We develop, configure and market our products and services to meet customer needs created by these regulations.  Any significant change in any of these regulations (or in the interpretation or application thereof) can reduce demand for, increase our costs of producing or delay the introduction of new or modified products and services, or restrict our existing activities, products and services.  For example, changes in the FDA’s regulation of the drug discovery/development process can have an adverse effect on the demand for our products and services. Exclusive forum provisions in our By-laws could limit our stockholders’ ability to choose their preferred judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers or employees. Our Amended and Restated By-laws (the “By-laws”) provide that unless the Company selects or consents to the selection of an alternative forum, the sole and exclusive forum for any complaint asserting any internal corporate claims, to the fullest extent permitted by law and subject to applicable jurisdictional requirements, will be the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware (or, if the Court of Chancery does not have, or declines to accept, jurisdiction, another state court or a federal court located within the State of Delaware) (collectively, “Delaware Courts”).  Current and former stockholders are deemed to have consented to the personal jurisdiction of the Delaware Courts in connection with any action to enforce such exclusive forum provision and to service of process in any such action.  These provisions of the By-laws are not a waiver of, and do not relieve anyone of duties to comply with, federal securities laws including those specifying the exclusive jurisdiction of federal courts under the Exchange Act and concurrent jurisdiction of federal and state courts under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.  To the extent that the exclusive forum provisions of our By-laws limit a current or former stockholder’s ability to select a judicial forum other than the Delaware Courts, they might discourage the specified legal actions, might cause current or former stockholders to incur additional litigation-related expenses and might result in outcomes unfavorable to current or former stockholders.  Alternatively, a court might determine that these provisions of the By-laws are inapplicable or unenforceable in any particular action, in which case we may incur additional litigation-related expenses in such action, and the action may result in outcomes unfavorable to us, which could have an adverse impact on our business and financial statements.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”) is designed to provide material information relevant to an assessment of Danaher’s financial condition and results of operations, including an evaluation of the amounts and certainty of cash flows from operations and from outside sources.  The MD&A is designed to focus specifically on material events and uncertainties known to management that are reasonably likely to cause reported financial information not to be necessarily indicative of future operating results or of future financial condition.  This includes descriptions and amounts of matters that have had a material impact on reported operations, as well as matters that are reasonably likely based on management’s assessment to have a material impact on future operations.  The Company’s MD&A is divided into five sections: • Overview • Results of Operations • Liquidity and Capital Resources • Critical Accounting Estimates • New Accounting Standards This discussion and analysis should be read together with Danaher’s audited financial statements and related Notes thereto as of December 31, 2022 and 2021 and for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2022 included in this Annual Report.  Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for 2020 is included in Item 7 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K with respect to the year ended December 31, 2021 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, as supplemented by the discussion herein of the new Biotechnology and Life Sciences segments (which were previously reported together as the former Life Sciences segment), and should be referred to for information regarding this period. Unless otherwise indicated, all financial results in this report refer to continuing operations. OVERVIEW General Refer to “Item 1. Business—General” for a discussion of Danaher’s strategic objectives and methodologies for delivering long-term shareholder value.  Danaher is a multinational business with global operations.  During 2022, approximately 58% of Danaher’s sales were derived from customers outside the United States.  As a diversified, global business, Danaher’s operations are affected by worldwide, regional and industry-specific economic and political factors.  Danaher’s geographic and industry diversity, as well as the range of its products and services, help limit the impact of any one industry or the economy of any single country on its consolidated operating results.  The Company’s individual businesses monitor key competitors and customers, including to the extent possible their sales, to gauge relative performance and the outlook for the future. As a result of the Company’s geographic and industry diversity, the Company faces a variety of opportunities and challenges, including rapid technological development (particularly with respect to computing, automation, artificial intelligence, mobile connectivity, communications and digitization) in most of the Company’s served markets, the expansion and evolution of opportunities in high-growth markets, trends and costs associated with a global labor force, consolidation of the Company’s competitors and increasing regulation.  The Company operates in a highly competitive business environment in most markets, and the Company’s long-term growth and profitability will depend in particular on its ability to expand its business in high-growth geographies and high-growth market segments, identify, consummate and integrate appropriate acquisitions and identify and consummate appropriate investments and strategic partnerships, develop innovative and differentiated new products and services with higher gross profit margins, expand and improve the effectiveness of the Company’s sales force, continue to reduce costs and improve operating efficiency and quality, and effectively address the demands of an increasingly regulated global environment.  The Company is making significant investments, organically and through acquisitions and investments, to address the rapid pace of technological change in its served markets and to globalize its manufacturing, research and development and customer-facing resources (particularly in high-growth markets) in order to be responsive to the Company’s customers throughout the world and improve the efficiency of the Company’s operations. Business Performance Consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2022 increased 7.0% as compared to 2021.  Acquisitions contributed 1.5% to the increase in revenues in 2022 and the impact of currency translation decreased reported sales 4.0%.  Core sales 37 increased 9.5% in 2022 compared to 2021 (for the definition of “core sales” refer to “—Results of Operations” below).  The Company’s continued investments in sales growth initiatives and the other business-specific factors referenced below contributed to core sales growth.  Geographically, both high-growth and developed markets contributed to year-over-year core sales growth during 2022.  Core sales in developed markets grew at a low-teens rate in 2022 as compared to 2021 and were driven by North America and Western Europe.  Core sales in high-growth markets grew at a low-single digit rate in 2022 as compared to 2021, with broad-based growth across these markets, led by growth in China.  High-growth markets represented approximately 29% of the Company’s total sales in 2022. The Company’s net earnings from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2022 totaled approximately $7.2 billion, compared to approximately $6.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2021.  Net earnings attributable to common stockholders for the year ended December 31, 2022 totaled approximately $7.1 billion or $9.66 per diluted common share compared to approximately $6.3 billion or $8.61 per diluted common share for the year ended December 31, 2021.  The increase in net earnings in 2022 as compared to 2021 was driven by increased sales in the Company’s existing businesses and sales from acquired businesses, by a lower effective tax rate in 2022 driven by discrete tax benefits and by the impact of the non-recurring charge incurred in 2021 related to the modification and partial termination of a prior commercial arrangement and resolution of the associated litigation recorded, partially offset by investment losses recorded in 2022.  Refer to “—Results of Operations” for further discussion of the year-over-year changes in net earnings and diluted net earnings per common share for the year ended December 31, 2022. For a discussion of the impact of supply chain disruptions, labor availability constraints and increased labor costs on our businesses in 2022, please see “Item 1. Business – Materials.”  For a discussion of the impact of the Russia-Ukraine conflict on our businesses in 2022, please see “Item 1. Business – Russia-Ukraine Conflict.” The COVID-19 Pandemic The global spread of a novel strain of coronavirus (COVID-19) has led to unprecedented restrictions on, and disruptions in, business and personal activities, including as a result of preventive and precautionary measures that we, other businesses, our communities and governments have taken and are taking to mitigate the spread of the virus and to manage its impact.  The Company continues to actively monitor the COVID-19 pandemic, including the current spread of certain variants of the virus and plan for potential impacts on its business.  The Company has deployed our capabilities, expertise and scale to address the critical health needs related to COVID-19, including developing and making available diagnostic tests for the rapid detection of COVID-19 as well as providing critical support to firms that are developing and producing vaccines and therapies for COVID-19.  While the conditions related to the pandemic generally improved in most geographies in 2022 compared to 2021, conditions vary significantly by geography.  For example, during the first half of 2022, COVID-19 considerations resulted in the re-imposition of widespread shutdowns and restrictions in China.  During the fourth quarter of 2022, China relaxed many of these restrictions and began experiencing increasing COVID-19 related cases resulting in lower patient volumes for elective procedures and wellness visits as hospitals prioritized treating COVID-19 related cases.  These higher COVID-19 related cases in China are anticipated to continue at least into the first quarter of 2023.  The resulting impact to the Company will depend upon the prevalence of COVID-19 in the impacted regions of China and the resulting impact on economic activity, including demand and production capacity. Demand for the Company’s products that support COVID-19 related vaccines and therapeutics (including initiatives that seek to prevent or mitigate similar, future pandemics) decreased in 2022 versus 2021.  The Company expects overall demand for these products to decrease in 2023 versus 2022.  Additionally, demand for the Company’s products that support COVID-19 testing continues to fluctuate significantly driven by increases or decreases in COVID-19 cases in particular geographies.  While sales of COVID-19 related testing products increased in 2022 compared to 2021, the Company expects overall demand for these products to decrease in 2023 as the pandemic subsides in most geographies and evolves toward endemic status. Due to the speed with which the COVID-19 situation has evolved, the global breadth of its spread, the range of governmental and community responses thereto and our geographic and business line diversity, its further impact on our business remains highly uncertain, but may be materially negative to certain elements of our business.  The potential negative impact will depend on future developments including but not limited to: • the degree of spread and severity of COVID-19 variants and government responses thereto; • the timing and durability of continued recovery in the global demand for our non-COVID-19 related products and services; and • the degree and pace of continuing declines in demand for products supporting COVID-19 testing and for products related to developing and producing vaccines and therapies for COVID-19. 38 For additional information on the risks of COVID-19 to the Company’s operations, refer to the “Item 1A. Risk Factors” section of this Annual Report. Acquisitions During 2022 the Company acquired 10 businesses for total consideration of $637 million in cash, net of cash acquired.  The businesses acquired complement existing units of each of the Company’s four segments.  The aggregate annual sales of the 10 businesses acquired in 2022 at the time of their acquisition, in each case based on the company’s revenues for its last completed fiscal year prior to the acquisition, were approximately $91 million. Refer to Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion regarding the Company’s acquisitions. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS In this report, references to the non-GAAP measures of core sales (also referred to as core revenues or sales/revenues from existing businesses) and core sales including Cytiva refer to sales from continuing operations calculated according to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (“GAAP”) but excluding: • sales from acquired businesses (as defined below, as applicable); and • the impact of currency translation. References to sales or operating profit attributable to acquisitions or acquired businesses refer to sales or operating profit, as applicable, from acquired businesses recorded prior to the first anniversary of the acquisition less any sales and operating profit, during the applicable period, attributable to divested product lines not considered discontinued operations; provided that in calculating core sales including Cytiva, Cytiva’s sales (net of the sales of the Company product lines divested in 2020 to obtain regulatory approval to acquire Cytiva, or the “divested product lines”) (“Cytiva sales”) are excluded from the definition of sales attributable to acquisitions or acquired businesses.  The portion of revenue attributable to currency translation is calculated as the difference between: • the period-to-period change in revenue (excluding sales from acquired businesses (as defined above, as applicable)); and • the period-to-period change in revenue (excluding sales from acquired businesses (as defined above, as applicable)) after applying current period foreign exchange rates to the prior year period. As noted above, beginning with results for the second quarter of 2020, the Company also presents core sales on a basis that includes Cytiva sales.  Prior to the acquisition of Cytiva, Danaher calculated core sales solely on a basis that excluded sales from acquired businesses recorded prior to the first anniversary of the acquisition.  However, given Cytiva’s significant size and historical core sales growth rate, in each case compared to Danaher’s existing businesses, management believes it is appropriate to also present core sales on a basis that includes Cytiva sales.  Management believes this presentation provides useful information to investors by demonstrating beginning immediately after the acquisition Cytiva’s impact on the Company’s growth profile, rather than waiting to demonstrate such impact until 12 months after the acquisition when Cytiva would normally have been included in Danaher’s core sales calculation.  Danaher calculates period-to-period core sales growth including Cytiva by adding Cytiva sales to core sales for both the baseline and current periods.  Beginning in the second quarter of 2021, Cytiva sales are included in core sales, and therefore the measure “core sales including Cytiva” is no longer provided for quarterly periods beginning with the second quarter of 2021. Core sales growth (and the related measure of core sales including Cytiva) should be considered in addition to, and not as a replacement for or superior to, sales, and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies.  Management believes that reporting these non-GAAP financial measures provides useful information to investors by helping identify underlying growth trends in Danaher’s business and facilitating comparisons of Danaher’s revenue performance with its performance in prior and future periods and to Danaher’s peers.  Management also uses these non-GAAP financial measures to measure the Company’s operating and financial performance and uses core sales growth (and previously used core sales growth including Cytiva) as one of the performance measures in the Company’s executive short-term cash incentive program.  The Company excludes the effect of currency translation from these measures because currency translation is not under management’s control, is subject to volatility and can obscure underlying business trends, and excludes the effect of acquisitions (other than Cytiva sales, in the case of core sales growth including Cytiva) and divestiture-related items because the nature, size, timing and number of acquisitions and divestitures can vary dramatically from period-to-period and between the Company and its peers and can also obscure underlying business trends and make comparisons of long-term performance difficult. 39 Throughout this discussion, references to sales growth or decline refer to the impact of both price and unit sales and references to productivity improvements generally refer to improved cost efficiencies resulting from the ongoing application of DBS. The Company deems acquisition-related transaction costs incurred in a given period to be significant (generally relating to the Company’s larger acquisitions) if it determines that such costs exceed the range of acquisition-related transaction costs typical for Danaher in a given period. Sales Growth, Core Sales Growth and Core Sales Growth Including Cytiva 2022 Sales Compared to 2021 Total sales increased 7.0% on a year-over-year basis in 2022 primarily as a result of an increase in core sales resulting from the factors discussed below by segment as well as an increase in sales from acquired businesses.  The impact of changes in currency exchange rates decreased reported sales by 4.0% on a year-over-year basis in 2022 primarily due to the unfavorable impact of the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against most other major currencies in 2022. Operating Profit Performance Operating profit margins were 27.6% for the year ended December 31, 2022 as compared to 25.3% in 2021.  The following factors impacted year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons. 2022 vs. 2021 operating profit margin comparisons were favorably impacted by: • Third quarter 2021 impact of the modification and partial termination of a prior commercial arrangement and resolution of the associated litigation - 185 basis points • Higher 2022 core sales and the impact of product mix, incremental year-over-year cost savings associated with continuing productivity improvement initiatives, net of incremental year-over-year costs associated with various new product development and sales, service and marketing growth investments and incremental year-over-year material, transportation and labor costs - 60 basis points • 2021 acquisition-related fair value adjustments to inventory and transaction costs deemed significant, in each case related to the acquisition of Aldevron - 20 basis points • 2021 acquisition-related fair value adjustments to inventory and deferred revenue related to the acquisition of Cytiva - 15 basis points. 2022 vs. 2021 operating profit margin comparisons were unfavorably impacted by: • The incremental dilutive effect in 2022 of acquired businesses, net of product line dispositions which did not qualify as discontinued operations - 30 basis points • 2022 impairments of accounts receivable and inventory as well as accruals for contractual obligations in Russia - 15 basis points • Fourth quarter 2022 costs incurred related to the anticipated separation of the Company's Environmental & Applied Solutions business - 5 basis points 40 Business Segments In the fourth quarter of 2022, the Company realigned its reportable segments to reflect changes in the Company’s internal organization resulting from the rate of growth within certain of the Company’s businesses in the former Life Sciences segment.  There were no changes to the Company’s Diagnostics or Environmental & Applied Solutions segments.  Prior period amounts have been restated to conform to the revised segment presentation.  Sales by business segment for the years ended December 31 are as follows ($ in millions): For information regarding the Company’s sales by geographical region, refer to Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. BIOTECHNOLOGY The Biotechnology segment includes the bioprocessing and discovery and medical businesses and offers a broad range of tools, consumables and services that are primarily used by customers to advance and accelerate the research, development, manufacture and delivery of biological medicines.  The biotherapeutics that the Company’s solutions support range from replacement therapies such as insulin, vaccines, recombinant proteins and other biologic drugs, to novel cell, gene, mRNA and other nucleic acid therapies. Biotechnology Selected Financial Data Sales Growth, Core Sales Growth and Core Sales Growth Including Cytiva 2022 Sales Compared to 2021 Price increases in the segment contributed 4.0% to sales growth on a year-over-year basis during 2022 as compared with 2021 and are reflected as a component of the change in core revenue growth. During 2022, total Biotechnology segment sales increased 2.0% primarily as a result of increased core sales resulting from the factors discussed below, partially offset by the impact of changes in currency exchange rates due to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar in 2022 compared to 2021.  Increased year-over-year core sales in the segment’s bioprocessing business were led by North America and Western Europe as the business experienced strong underlying demand for non-COVID-19 related 41 instruments and consumables offsetting a decline in sales of instruments and consumables used in the research, development and production of COVID-19 related treatments and vaccines and the completion of a major project in China during 2021.  Core sales of the businesses’ COVID-19 related products decreased year-over-year as a result of lower underlying demand for COVID-19 related therapeutics and vaccines and as customers reduce inventory levels of these products in light of this lower demand.  Core sales for the discovery and medical business increased in 2022 compared to 2021 driven by higher sales of lab filtration and protein research products.  Geographically, core sales in the discovery and medical business were led by North America, Western Europe and China. 2021 Sales Compared to 2020 Price increases in the segment contributed 2.0% to sales growth on a year-over-year basis during 2021 as compared with 2020 and are reflected as a component of the change in core revenue growth. During 2021, total Biotechnology segment sales increased 62.5% primarily as a result of increased sales from the acquisition of Cytiva on March 31, 2020 (the “Cytiva Acquisition”), increased core sales resulting from the factors discussed below and the impact of changes in currency exchange rates due to the weakening of the U.S. dollar against most major currencies in 2021 compared to 2020.  In 2021, the bioprocessing business experienced significant increased year-over-year core sales, driven by demand for instruments and consumables used in the research and development and production of COVID-19 therapeutics and vaccines and increased demand for non-COVID-19 related products as well as from the completion of a major project in China.  Geographically, demand for these products increased across all major geographies, led by North America, Western Europe and China.  Core sales for the discovery and medical business increased in 2021 compared to 2020 driven by higher sales of protein research and lab filtration products. Operating Profit Performance Operating profit margins declined 160 basis points during 2022 as compared to 2021.  The following factors impacted year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons. 2022 vs. 2021 operating profit margin comparisons were unfavorably impacted by: • Incremental year-over-year costs associated with various new product development, sales, service and marketing growth investments, restructuring and continuing productivity improvement initiatives, the impact of product mix, and incremental year-over-year material, transportation and labor costs, net of the impact of higher 2022 core sales - 170 basis points • The incremental dilutive effect in 2022 of acquired businesses - 30 basis points • 2022 impairment of accounts receivable and inventory in Russia - 15 basis points 2022 vs. 2021 operating profit margin comparisons were favorably impacted by: • 2021 acquisition-related fair value adjustments to inventory and deferred revenue, in each case related to the acquisition of Cytiva - 55 basis points Depreciation as a percentage of sales increased in 2022 as compared with 2021 as the increase in depreciation attributable to assets related to the acquisition of Cytiva and capital expenditures exceeded the increase in sales.  Amortization of intangible assets as a percentage of sales decreased in 2022 as compared with 2021 primarily due to the increase in sales. Operating profit margins increased 1,540 basis points during 2021 as compared to 2020.  The following factors favorably impacted year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons. • 2020 acquisition-related fair value adjustments to inventory and deferred revenue, transaction costs deemed significant and integration preparation costs, net of 2021 acquisition-related fair value adjustments to inventory and deferred revenue in each case related to the acquisition of Cytiva - 875 basis points • Higher 2021 core sales, the impact of product mix and the impact of foreign currency exchange rates, net of incremental year-over-year costs associated with various new product development and sales and marketing growth investments and incremental year-over-year material and labor costs - 585 basis points • The incremental accretive effect in 2021 of acquired businesses, net of product line dispositions which did not qualify as discontinued operations - 80 basis points 42 Depreciation as a percentage of sales increased in 2021 as compared with 2020 as the increase in depreciation attributable to assets related to the acquisition of Cytiva and capital expenditures exceeded the increase in sales.  Amortization of intangible assets as a percentage of sales decreased in 2021 as compared with 2020 primarily due to increased sales from the acquisition of Cytiva exceeding the increase in amortization. LIFE SCIENCES The Life Sciences segment offers a broad range of instruments and consumables that are primarily used by customers to study the basic building blocks of life, including DNA and RNA, nucleic acid, proteins, metabolites and cells, in order to understand the causes of disease, identify new therapies, and test and manufacture new drugs, vaccines and gene editing technologies.  Additionally, the segment provides products and consumables used to filter and remove contaminants from a variety of liquids and gases in many end-market applications. Life Sciences Selected Financial Data Sales Growth and Core Sales Growth 2022 Sales Compared to 2021 Price increases in the segment contributed 5.0% to sales growth on a year-over-year basis during 2022 as compared with 2021 and are reflected as a component of the change in core revenue growth. During 2022, total Life Sciences segment sales increased 10.0% primarily as a result of increased core sales resulting from the factors discussed below and increased sales from acquisitions, partially offset by the impact of changes in currency exchange rates due to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar in 2022 compared to 2021.  Core sales for the Company’s flow cytometry, genomics, lab automation, centrifugation, particle counting and characterization business decreased in 2022 primarily as a result of declines in Western Europe due to lower demand for genomic sample preparation consumables used in COVID-19 testing.  These declines were partially offset by core sales growth in all other major product lines, led geographically by North America and China.  Core sales in the mass spectrometry business increased in 2022 across all major end-markets driven in part by demand from recent product launches.  Geographically, demand increased across all major geographies, led by North America, Western Europe and China.  In 2022, core sales for the genomic consumables businesses increased compared to 2021 due to strong demand across most major product lines, led geographically by North America.  Core sales for the industrial filtration business increased in 2022 compared to 2021 due to strong demand for these products across all major end-markets, led by microelectronics, aerospace and fluid technology and asset protection.  Core sales for the industrial filtration business increased across all major geographies. 2021 Sales Compared to 2020 Price increases in the segment contributed 1.5% to sales growth on a year-over-year basis during 2021 as compared with 2020 and are reflected as a component of the change in core revenue growth. During 2021, total Life Sciences segment sales increased 20.5% primarily as a result of increased core sales resulting from the factors discussed below, increased sales from acquisitions and the impact of changes in currency exchange rates due to the 43 weakening of the U.S. dollar in 2021 compared to 2020.  Core sales for the Company’s flow cytometry, genomics, lab automation, centrifugation, particle counting and characterization business increased in 2021 across all major geographies, led by North America and Western Europe.  Core sales for the business were driven by demand earlier in the year for genomic sample preparation consumables related to COVID-19 as well as demand for flow cytometry products.  Core sales in the mass spectrometry business increased in 2021 across all major end-markets driven in part by demand for new products.  Geographically, demand increased across all major geographies, led by North America, Western Europe and China.  In 2021, core sales for the industrial filtration business increased compared to 2020 due to strong demand for these products led by the microelectronics end-market, partially offset by weaker demand in the aerospace end-market.  Geographically, core sales for the business were led by China and other high-growth markets, partially offset by North America. The acquisition of Aldevron on August 30, 2021 has provided, and is expected to continue to provide, additional sales and earnings growth opportunities for the Company’s Life Sciences segment by expanding the business’ product line diversity, including new product and service offerings that complement the Company’s genomic medicine solutions.  Since acquisition, Aldevron has seen sales growth in all major product lines compared to the prior year period. Operating Profit Performance Operating profit margins declined 10 basis points during 2022 as compared to 2021.  The following factors impacted year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons. 2022 vs. 2021 operating profit margin comparisons were favorably impacted by: • 2021 acquisition-related fair value adjustments to inventory and transaction costs deemed significant, in each case related to the acquisition of Aldevron - 90 basis points • Higher 2022 core sales, net of incremental year-over-year costs associated with various sales and marketing growth investments, incremental year-over-year material, transportation and labor costs and incremental restructuring and continuing productivity improvement initiatives - 50 basis points 2022 vs. 2021 operating profit margin comparisons were unfavorably impacted by: • The incremental dilutive effect in 2022 of acquired businesses, net of product line dispositions which did not qualify as discontinued operations - 115 basis points • 2022 impairment of accounts receivable and inventory as well as accruals for contractual obligations in Russia - 35 basis points Depreciation as a percentage of sales was consistent in 2022 as compared with 2021.  Amortization of intangible assets as a percentage of sales increased in 2022 as compared with 2021 primarily as a result of the increase in intangible assets related to the acquisition of Aldevron. Operating profit margins increased 190 basis points during 2021 as compared to 2020.  The following factors impacted year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons. 2021 vs. 2020 operating profit margin comparisons were favorably impacted by: • Higher 2021 core sales and the impact of product mix, incremental year-over-year cost savings associated with continuing productivity improvement initiatives and the impact of foreign currency exchange rates, net of incremental year-over-year costs associated with various new product development and sales and marketing growth investments and incremental year-over-year material and labor costs - 360 basis points 2021 vs. 2020 operating profit margin comparisons were unfavorably impacted by: • 2021 acquisition-related fair value adjustments to inventory and transaction costs deemed significant, in each case related to the acquisition of Aldevron - 90 basis points • The incremental dilutive effect in 2021 of acquired businesses, net of product line dispositions which did not qualify as discontinued operations - 80 basis points Depreciation as a percentage of sales were relatively consistent in 2021 as compared with 2020.  Amortization of intangible assets as a percentage of sales increased in 2021 as compared with 2020 primarily due to the increase in intangible assets related to the acquisition of Aldevron. 44 DIAGNOSTICS The Diagnostics segment offers clinical instruments, reagents, consumables, software and services that hospitals, physicians’ offices, reference laboratories and other critical care settings use to diagnose disease and make treatment decisions. Diagnostics Selected Financial Data Sales Growth and Core Sales Growth 2022 Sales Compared to 2021 Price increases in the segment contributed 1.0% to sales growth on a year-over-year basis during 2022 as compared with 2021 and are reflected as a component of the change in core sales growth. During 2022, total segment sales increased 10.0% primarily as a result of increased core sales resulting from the factors discussed below, particularly higher year-over-year core sales of molecular diagnostics tests for COVID-19 which contributed significantly to overall segment core sales growth, partially offset by the impact of changes in currency exchange rates.  Core sales in the molecular diagnostics business increased on a year-over-year basis led by North America and Western Europe as the business experienced strong growth in sales of consumables.  The increase was driven primarily by increased sales of diagnostic test solutions for COVID-19 as well as higher year-over-year demand for non-respiratory disease tests.  Additional production capacity added in 2021 allowed the business to produce more diagnostic tests in 2022 and meet continued strong demand by private and government customers.  Core sales in the segment’s clinical lab business grew on a year-over-year basis as increased demand in North America and Japan offset weaker demand in China where COVID-19 related restrictions reduced patient volumes.  During 2022, core sales in the acute care diagnostic business increased year-over-year primarily due to increased demand for its blood gas product line.  Geographically, demand was driven by Western Europe, North America and China.  Core sales in the pathology business grew year-over-year across all major geographies, driven by increased demand for core histology, advanced staining and pathology imaging products. Operating Profit Performance Operating profit margins increased 820 basis points during 2022 as compared to 2021.  The following factors impacted year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons. 2022 vs. 2021 operating profit margin comparisons were favorably impacted by: • Third quarter 2021 impact of the modification and partial termination of a prior commercial arrangement and resolution of the associated litigation - 555 basis point s • Higher 2022 core sales and the impact of product mix, net of incremental year-over-year costs associated with material, transportation and labor, restructuring and continuing productivity improvement initiatives, sales and marketing growth initiatives and various new product development initiatives - 250 basis points • The incremental accretive effect in 2022 of acquired businesses - 10 basis points • First quarter 2021 impairment charge related to a trade name - 10 basis points 45 2022 vs. 2021 operating profit margin comparisons were unfavorably impacted by: • 2022 impairments of accounts receivable as well as accruals for contractual obligations in Russia - 5 basis points Depreciation and amortization of intangible assets both decreased as a percentage of sales during 2022 as compared with 2021, primarily as a result of the increase in sales. ENVIRONMENTAL & APPLIED SOLUTIONS The Environmental & Applied Solutions segment offers products and services that help protect precious resources and keep global food and water supplies safe.  The Company’s water quality business provides instrumentation, consumables, software, services and disinfection systems to help analyze, treat and manage the quality of ultra-pure, potable, industrial, waste, ground, source and ocean water in residential, commercial, municipal, industrial and natural resource applications.  The Company’s product identification business provides instruments, software, services and consumables for various color and appearance management, packaging design and quality management, packaging converting, printing, marking, coding and traceability applications for consumer, pharmaceutical and industrial products. Environmental & Applied Solutions Selected Financial Data Sales Growth and Core Sales Growth 2022 Sales Compared to 2021 Price increases in the segment contributed 7.5% to sales growth on a year-over-year basis during 2022 as compared with 2021 and are reflected as a component of the change in core revenue growth. In 2022, total Environmental & Applied Solutions segment sales increased 4.0%, primarily as a result of core sales growth driven by the factors discussed below, partially offset by the impact of changes in currency exchange rates and divestitures, net of acquisitions. On an overall basis, in 2022 core sales in the segment’s water quality businesses increased at a low-double digit rate.  Year-over-year core sales in the analytical instrumentation product line increased driven by higher core sales in the municipal and industrial end-markets.  Geographically, core sales growth was led by North America and Western Europe.  Core sales in the chemical treatment solutions product line increased as a result of higher core sales across all major end-markets.  Geographically, the increase in core sales of chemical treatment solutions was driven by North America and Latin America. The segment’s product identification businesses’ core sales grew at a mid-single digit rate.  Core sales in the marking and coding business increased led by the food and beverage end-market.  Geographically, core sales growth was led by North America, Western Europe and Latin America, partially offset by the core sales decline from the suspension of shipments to Russia.  Year-over-year core sales in the packaging and color solutions products and services business increased, geographically led by Western Europe. 46 In September 2022, the Company announced its intention to spin-off its Environmental & Applied Solutions business into a publicly traded company.  The transaction is expected to be tax-free to the Company’s shareholders.  The Company is targeting to complete the EAS Separation in the fourth quarter of 2023, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, including obtaining final approval from the Danaher Board of Directors, satisfactory completion of financing, receipt of tax opinions, receipt of favorable rulings from the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) and receipt of other regulatory approvals. Operating Profit Performance Operating profit margins increased 80 basis points during 2022 as compared to 2021.  The following factors impacted year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons. 2022 vs. 2021 operating profit margin comparisons were favorably impacted by: • Higher 2022 core sales and incrementally lower year-over-year costs associated with various new product development initiatives, net of the impact of product mix, incremental year-over-year costs associated with material, transportation and labor and restructuring and continuing productivity improvement initiatives and incremental year-over-year costs for sales, service and marketing growth investments - 85 basis points • The incremental net accretive effect in 2022 of acquired businesses and product line dispositions which did not qualify as discontinued operations - 20 basis points 2022 vs. 2021 operating profit margin comparisons were unfavorably impacted by: • Second quarter 2022 impairment charge related to technology and customer relationships - 20 basis points • 2022 impairments of accounts receivable and inventory in Russia - 5 basis points Depreciation and amortization of intangible assets as a percentage of sales decreased in 2022 as compared with 2021 primarily as a result of the increase in sales. COST OF SALES AND GROSS PROFIT The year-over-year increase in cost of sales during 2022 as compared with 2021 was due primarily to the impact of higher year-over-year sales volumes, including sales volumes from recently acquired businesses and incremental year-over-year costs associated with material, transportation, labor and restructuring and continuing productivity improvement initiatives.  This increase was partially offset by lower incremental year-over-year acquisition-related charges associated with fair value adjustments to inventory in connection with the 2021 acquisition of Aldevron, which increased cost of sales by $59 million in 2021. The year-over-year decrease in gross profit margin during 2022 as compared with 2021 was driven by incremental year-over-year costs associated with material, transportation, labor and restructuring and continuing productivity improvement initiatives.  In addition, the gross profit margin was negatively impacted by a 2022 inventory charge related to reduction of business activities in Russia.  Gross profit margins declines were partially offset by increased year-over-year core sales and product mix as well as the impact of acquisition-related charges incurred in 2021.  The 2021 acquisition-related charges of $76 million included fair value adjustments to deferred revenue related to the acquisition of Cytiva and fair value adjustments to inventory in connection with the acquisitions of Aldevron and Cytiva. 47 OPERATING EXPENSES SG&A expenses as a percentage of sales declined 70 basis points on a year-over-year basis for 2022 compared with 2021.  The decline was driven by the benefit of increased leverage of the Company’s general and administrative cost base, including amortization expense, resulting from higher 2022 sales, including sales volumes from recently acquired businesses, as well as incremental year-over-year cost savings associated with continuing productivity improvement initiatives.  The Company’s 2021 transaction costs for the acquisition of Aldevron also benefited the year-over-year comparison of SG&A as a percentage of sales.  These decreases were partially offset by continued investments in sales and marketing growth initiatives, increased labor costs and incremental restructuring and continuing productivity improvement costs as well as higher amortization expense.  Additionally, the declines were partially offset by charges related to impairments of certain accounts receivable and accrual of contractual obligations incurred in Russia and by an impairment charge related to technology and customer relationships incurred in 2022, net of the impact of an impairment charge related to a trade name in 2021. R&D expenses (consisting principally of internal and contract engineering personnel costs) as a percentage of sales declined in 2022 as compared with 2021, primarily due to the sales growth rate exceeding the spending growth related to new product development initiatives. Other operating expenses and other operating expenses as a percentage of sales decreased in 2022 compared with 2021 as a result of the contract settlement expense related to the modification and partial termination of a prior commercial arrangement and resolution of the associated litigation during 2021.  Refer to Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. NONOPERATING INCOME (EXPENSE) Nonoperating income (expense) consists primarily of net unrealized and realized gains/losses resulting from changes in the fair value of the Company’s investments in equity securities and investments in partnerships, the non-service cost components of net periodic benefit costs, gains on the sale of product lines and impairments of equity method investments.  Refer to Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. LOSS ON EARLY EXTINGUISHMENT OF BORROWINGS In the fourth quarter of 2021, the Company redeemed the €800 million aggregate principal amount of 2.5% senior unsecured notes due 2025 at a redemption price equal to the outstanding principal amount and a make-whole premium as specified in the applicable indenture, plus accrued and unpaid interest.  The Company recorded a loss on early extinguishment of these borrowings related to the payment of the make-whole premiums and deferred costs in connection with the redemption of $96 million ($73 million after-tax).  The Company funded the redemption using available cash balances, including proceeds from the fourth quarter 2021 issuance of the $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 2.8% senior unsecured notes due 2051. In the fourth quarter of 2020, the Company redeemed the €800 million aggregate principal amount of 1.7% senior unsecured notes due 2022 at a redemption price equal to the outstanding principal amount and a make-whole premium as specified in the applicable indenture, plus accrued and unpaid interest.  The Company recorded a loss on early extinguishment of these borrowings of $26 million ($20 million after-tax) related to the payment of make-whole premiums in connection with the redemption.  The Company funded the redemption using available cash balances, including proceeds from the fourth quarter 2020 issuance of the $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 2.6% senior unsecured notes due 2050. 48 INTEREST COSTS Interest expense of $211 million for 2022 was $27 million lower than in 2021, due primarily to lower average debt balances in 2022 compared to 2021 and the impact of the stronger U.S. dollar in 2022 on the interest expense for the Company’s foreign currency denominated debt (and U.S. dollar debt that has been effectively converted into foreign currency through cross-currency swap derivative contracts).  Interest income of $41 million for 2022 was $30 million higher than in 2021, due primarily to higher interest rates and higher cash balances in 2022. For a further description of the Company’s debt and cross-currency swap derivative contracts related to the debt as of December 31, 2022 refer to Notes 14 and 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. INCOME TAXES General Income tax expense and deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect management’s assessment of future taxes expected to be paid on items reflected in the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements.  The Company records the tax effect of discrete items and items that are reported net of their tax effects in the period in which they occur. The Company’s effective tax rate can be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with different statutory tax rates (including as a result of business acquisitions and dispositions), changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, accruals related to contingent tax liabilities and period-to-period changes in such accruals, the results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns (as further discussed below), the expiration of statutes of limitations, the implementation of tax planning strategies, tax rulings, court decisions, settlements with tax authorities, changes in tax laws and regulations, and legislative policy changes that may result from the OECD’s initiative on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting.  For a description of the tax treatment of earnings that are planned to be reinvested indefinitely outside the United States, refer to “—Liquidity and Capital Resources—Cash and Cash Requirements” below. The amount of income taxes the Company pays is subject to ongoing audits by federal, state and non-U.S. tax authorities, which often result in proposed assessments.  Management performs a comprehensive review of its global tax positions on a quarterly basis.  Based on these reviews, which take into account the results of discussions and resolutions of matters with certain tax authorities and the other factors referenced in the prior paragraph, reserves for contingent tax liabilities are accrued or adjusted as necessary.  For a discussion of risks related to these and other tax matters, refer to “Item 1A. Risk Factors”. Year-Over-Year Changes in the Tax Provision and Effective Tax Rate The Company’s effective tax rate for 2022 differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 21.0% due principally to net deferred tax benefits resulting from legal and operational actions undertaken to realign certain of its businesses, as well as excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation, the release of reserves for uncertain tax positions due to the expiration of statutes of limitation and audit settlements and changes in estimates related to prior year tax filing positions, net of changes in estimates associated with prior period uncertain tax positions. The Company’s effective tax rate for 2021 differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 21.0% due principally to net discrete benefits related primarily to the release of reserves for uncertain tax positions due to the expiration of statutes of limitation and audit settlements and excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation, net of changes in estimates associated with prior period uncertain tax positions. The Company conducts business globally and files numerous consolidated and separate income tax returns in the U.S. federal and state and non-U.S. jurisdictions.  The non-U.S. countries in which the Company has a significant presence include China, Denmark, Germany, Singapore, Sweden, Switzerland and the United Kingdom.  Excluding these jurisdictions, the Company believes that a change in the statutory tax rate of any individual non-U.S. country would not have a material effect on the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements given the geographic dispersion of the Company’s taxable income. The Company and its subsidiaries are routinely examined by various U.S. and non-U.S. taxing authorities.  The IRS has completed substantially all of the examinations of the Company’s federal income tax returns through 2015 and is currently examining certain of the Company’s federal income tax returns for 2016 through 2018.  In addition, the Company has subsidiaries in Belgium, Canada, China, Denmark, France, Germany, India, Italy, Japan, Korea, Switzerland, the United Kingdom and various other countries, states and provinces that are currently under audit for years ranging from 2004 through 2021. 49 Similar to the position it took in connection with the audit of the Company’s taxable income for the years 2012 through 2015, in the fourth quarter of 2022, the IRS proposed significant adjustments to the Company’s taxable income for the years 2016 through 2018 with respect to the deferral of tax on certain premium income related to the Company’s self-insurance programs.  The settlement of this matter for the 2012 through 2015 audit was not material to the Company’s financial statements but did not preclude the IRS from proposing similar adjustments in future audit periods, as the IRS has with the 2022 assessment.  For income tax purposes, the recognition of premium income has been deferred in accordance with U.S. tax laws related to insurance.  The IRS is challenging the deferral of premium income for certain types of the Company’s self-insurance policies.  The proposed adjustments would increase the Company’s taxable income over the 2016 through 2018 periods by approximately $2.5 billion.  Due to the enactment of the TCJA in 2017 and the resulting reduction in the U.S. corporate tax rate for years after 2017, the Company remeasured its deferred tax liabilities related to the temporary differences associated with this deferred premium income from 35.0% to 21.0%.  If the Company is unsuccessful in defending its position, taxes owed to the IRS may be computed under the previous 35.0% statutory tax rate and the Company may be required to remeasure the related deferred tax liabilities from 21.0% to 35.0%, which in addition to any interest due on the amounts assessed, would require a charge to future earnings.  Management believes the positions the Company has taken in its U.S. tax returns are in accordance with the relevant tax laws and intends to vigorously defend these positions. Tax authorities in Denmark have issued tax assessments related to interest accrued by certain of the Company’s subsidiaries for the years 2004 through 2015.  During the first quarter of 2021, the Company received a notice from the Danish tax authorities that included a significant reduction in the interest amounts imposed in the original tax assessments.  Taking into account the revised interest amounts, the assessments total approximately DKK 2.1 billion including applicable accrued interest (approximately $298 million based on the exchange rate as of December 31, 2022).  The Company’s appeal of the tax assessments with the Danish National Tax Tribunal has been put on hold awaiting the final outcome of other preceding withholding tax cases that have been brought before the Danish High Court and the Danish Supreme Court.  Management believes the positions the Company has taken in Denmark are in accordance with the relevant tax laws and is vigorously defending its positions.  The Company intends on pursuing this matter through the Danish High Court and the Danish Supreme Court should the appeal to the Danish National Tax Tribunal be unsuccessful.  While the ultimate resolution of this matter is uncertain and could take many years, taking into account the payments the Company has previously made related to these assessments in order to mitigate further interest accrual claims, the Company does not expect the resolution of this matter will have a future material adverse impact to the Company’s financial statements, including its cash flow and effective tax rate. The Company expects its 2023 effective tax rate to be approximately 19.5% which is higher than the 2022 rate due primarily to the impact of net discrete tax benefits on the 2022 effective tax rate that are not expected to repeat in 2023 and the geographic mix of earnings anticipated for 2023.  Any future legislative changes in the United States and/or potential tax reform in other jurisdictions could cause the Company’s effective tax rate to differ from this estimate.  Refer to Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to income taxes. DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS AND ENVIRONMENTAL & APPLIED SOLUTIONS SEPARATION Fortive Corporation Separation On July 2, 2016, the Company completed the separation of its former Test & Measurement segment, Industrial Technologies segment (excluding the product identification businesses) and retail/commercial petroleum business by distributing to Danaher stockholders on a pro rata basis all of the issued and outstanding common stock of Fortive Corporation (“Fortive”), the entity the Company incorporated to hold such businesses.  In 2021, the Company recorded an income tax benefit of $86 million related to the release of previously provided reserves associated with uncertain tax positions on certain of the Company’s tax returns which were jointly filed with Fortive entities.  These reserves were released due to the expiration of statutes of limitations for those returns.  This income tax benefit is included in earnings from discontinued operations, net of income taxes in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. Environmental & Applied Solutions Separation In September 2022, the Company announced its intention to spin-off its Environmental & Applied Solutions business into a publicly traded company.  The transaction is expected to be tax-free to the Company’s shareholders.  The Company is targeting to complete the EAS Separation in the fourth quarter of 2023, subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions, including obtaining final approval from the Danaher Board of Directors, satisfactory completion of financing, receipt of tax opinions, receipt of favorable rulings from the IRS and receipt of other regulatory approvals. Refer to Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 50 COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Comprehensive income decreased by $410 million in 2022 as compared to 2021, primarily driven by the impact of higher losses from foreign currency translation adjustments in 2022 compared to 2021 and a decrease in the income from pension and postretirement plan benefit adjustments and cash flow hedge adjustments in 2022 compared to 2021, partially offset by higher net earnings in 2022 compared to 2021.  The Company recorded a foreign currency translation loss of approximately $2.1 billion for 2022 compared to a loss of approximately $1.3 billion for 2021.  The Company recorded a pension and postretirement plan benefit gain of $209 million for 2022 compared to a gain of $378 million for 2021.  The Company recorded gains from cash flow hedge adjustments related to the Company’s derivative contracts in 2022 of $51 million compared to gains of $247 million in 2021. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT The Company is exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, equity prices and commodity prices as well as credit risk, each of which could impact its Consolidated Financial Statements.  The Company generally addresses its exposure to these risks through its normal operating and financing activities.  The Company also periodically uses derivative financial instruments to manage foreign exchange risks and interest rate risks.  In addition, the Company’s broad-based business activities help to reduce the impact that volatility in any particular area or related areas may have on its financial statements as a whole. Interest Rate Risk The Company manages interest cost using a mixture of fixed-rate and at times variable-rate debt.  A change in interest rates on fixed-rate debt impacts the fair value of the debt but not the Company’s earnings or cash flow because the interest on such debt is fixed.  Generally, the fair market value of fixed-rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise.  As of December 31, 2022, an increase of 100 basis points in interest rates would have decreased the fair value of the Company’s fixed-rate long-term debt by approximately $1.5 billion. As of December 31, 2022, the Company had no variable-rate debt obligations, however, the interest rates of the Company’s euro-based commercial paper borrowings are fixed based on short-term market rates at the time of issuance (refer to Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the Company’s outstanding commercial paper balances as of December 31, 2022).  As a result, the Company’s primary interest rate exposure results from changes in short-term interest rates.  As these shorter duration obligations mature, the Company may issue additional short-term commercial paper obligations to refinance all or part of these borrowings, to the extent commercial paper markets are available.  In 2022, the average annual interest rate associated with the Company’s outstanding commercial paper borrowings was approximately 43 basis points.  A hypothetical increase of this average by 100 basis points would have increased the Company’s 2022 interest expense by approximately $21 million. Refer to “Results of Operations—Interest Costs” for discussion of the Company’s cross-currency swap derivative contracts and interest rate swap agreements. Currency Exchange Rate Risk The Company faces transactional exchange rate risk from transactions with customers in countries outside the United States and from intercompany transactions between affiliates.  Transactional exchange rate risk arises from the purchase and sale of goods and services in currencies other than Danaher’s functional currency or the functional currency of its applicable subsidiary.  The Company also faces translational exchange rate risk related to the translation of financial statements of its foreign operations into U.S. dollars, Danaher’s functional currency.  Costs incurred and sales recorded by subsidiaries operating outside of the United States are translated into U.S. dollars using exchange rates effective during the respective period.  As a result, the Company is exposed to movements in the exchange rates of various currencies against the U.S. dollar.  In particular, the Company has more sales in European currencies than it has expenses in those currencies.  Therefore, when European currencies strengthen or weaken against the U.S. dollar, operating profits are increased or decreased, respectively.  The effect of a change in currency exchange rates on the Company’s net investment in non-U.S. subsidiaries is reflected in the accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) component of stockholders’ equity. Currency exchange rates negatively impacted 2022 reported sales on a year-over-year basis primarily due to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against most major currencies during 2022.  If the currency exchange rates in effect as of December 31, 2022 were to prevail throughout 2023, the Company’s 2023 sales would be essentially flat relative to 2022 sales.  Strengthening of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies compared to the exchange rates in effect as of December 31, 2022 would adversely impact the Company’s sales and results of operations on an overall basis.  Any weakening of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies compared to the exchange rates in effect as of December 31, 2022 would positively impact the Company’s sales and results of operations. 51 The Company has generally accepted the exposure to exchange rate movements without using derivative financial instruments to manage this transactional exchange risk, although the Company has used foreign currency-denominated debt and cross-currency swaps to hedge a portion of its net investments in non-U.S. operations against adverse movements in exchange rates.  Both positive and negative movements in currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar will continue to affect the reported amount of sales and net earnings in the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements.  In addition, the Company has assets and liabilities held in foreign currencies.  A 10% depreciation in major currencies relative to the U.S. dollar as of December 31, 2022 would have reduced foreign currency-denominated net assets and stockholders’ equity by approximately $1.7 billion.  Refer to Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the Company’s hedging of a portion of its net investment in non-U.S. operations. Equity Price Risk The Company’s investment portfolio from time to time includes publicly-traded equity securities that are sensitive to fluctuations in market price.  As of December 31, 2022, the Company held $16 million of publicly-traded equity securities, excluding equity-method investments.  Additionally, the Company holds non-marketable equity investments in privately held companies that may be impacted by equity price risks.  These non-marketable equity investments are accounted for under the Fair Value Alternative method with changes in fair value recorded in earnings.  Volatility in the equity markets or other fair value considerations could affect the value of these investments and require losses or gains to be recognized in earnings. Commodity Price Risk For a discussion of risks relating to commodity prices, refer to “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” Credit Risk The Company is exposed to potential credit losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties to its financial instruments.  Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to credit risk consist of cash and temporary investments, receivables from customers and derivatives.  The Company places cash and temporary investments with various high-quality financial institutions throughout the world and exposure is limited at any one institution.  Although the Company typically does not obtain collateral or other security to secure these obligations, it does regularly monitor the third-party depository institutions that hold its cash and cash equivalents.  The Company’s emphasis is primarily on safety and liquidity of principal and secondarily on maximizing yield on those funds. In addition, concentrations of credit risk arising from receivables from customers are limited due to the diversity of the Company’s customers.  The Company’s businesses perform credit evaluations of their customers’ financial conditions as deemed appropriate and also obtain collateral or other security when deemed appropriate. The Company enters into derivative transactions infrequently and typically with high-quality financial institutions, so that exposure at any one institution is limited. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Management assesses the Company’s liquidity in terms of its ability to generate cash to fund its operating, investing and financing activities.  The Company continues to generate substantial cash from operating activities and believes that its operating cash flow, cash on hand and other sources of liquidity will be sufficient to allow it to continue investing in existing businesses (including capital expenditures), consummating strategic acquisitions and investments, paying interest and servicing debt, paying dividends, funding restructuring activities and managing its capital structure on a short-term and long-term basis. The Company has relied primarily on borrowings under its commercial paper program to address liquidity requirements that exceed the capacity provided by its operating cash flows and cash on hand, while also accessing the capital markets from time to time including to secure financing for more significant acquisitions.  Subject to any limitations that may result from the COVID-19 pandemic or other market disruptions (such as the disruptions in the financial and capital markets that occurred at times in 2020), the Company anticipates following the same approach in the future. 52 Overview of Cash Flows and Liquidity Following is an overview of the Company’s cash flows and liquidity for the years ended December 31: • Operating cash flows from continuing operations increased $161 million, or 2%, during 2022 as compared to 2021, due primarily to higher net earnings from continuing operations (after excluding charges for depreciation, amortization (including intangible assets and inventory step-up), stock compensation, gain on sale of product lines, unrealized investment gains/losses, loss on the extinguishment of debt and the contract settlement expense in 2021).  These increases were partially offset by higher cash used in aggregate for accounts receivables, inventories, trade accounts payable and prepaid and accrued expenses, including deferred taxes, in 2022 compared to the prior year. • Net cash used in investing activities consisted primarily of capital expenditures, cash paid for acquisitions and investments, net of proceeds from the sale of investments, and decreased primarily as a result of lower cash paid for acquisitions in 2022 compared to 2021.  Refer to Notes 2 and 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for a discussion of the Company’s acquisitions and investments. • As of December 31, 2022, the Company held approximately $6.0 billion of cash and cash equivalents. Operating Activities Cash flows from operating activities can fluctuate significantly from period-to-period as working capital needs and the timing of payments for income taxes, restructuring activities and productivity improvement initiatives, pension funding and other items impact reported cash flows. Operating cash flows from continuing operations were approximately $8.5 billion for 2022, an increase of $161 million, or 2%, as compared to 2021.  The year-over-year change in operating cash flows from 2021 to 2022 was primarily attributable to the following factors: • 2022 operating cash flows benefited from higher net earnings in 2022 as compared to 2021. • Net earnings for 2022 reflected an increase of $160 million of depreciation, amortization, stock compensation expense, unrealized investment gains/losses, net of loss on the extinguishment of debt and contract settlement expense as 53 compared to 2021.  Amortization expense primarily relates to the amortization of intangible assets and inventory fair value adjustments.  Depreciation expense relates to both the Company’s manufacturing and operating facilities as well as instrumentation leased to customers under operating-type lease (“OTL”) arrangements.  Contract settlement expense represents the pretax charge related to the modification and partial termination of a prior commercial arrangement and resolution of the associated litigation.  Refer to Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the contract settlement expense.  Depreciation, amortization, stock compensation and contract settlement expense are noncash expenses that decrease earnings without a corresponding impact to operating cash flows.  Cash flows from the gain on sale of product lines and loss on the extinguishment of debt are reflected in cash flows from investing activities while unrealized investment gains/losses impact net earnings without immediately impacting cash flows as the cash flow impact from investments occurs when the invested capital is returned to the Company. • The aggregate of trade accounts receivable, inventories and trade accounts payable used $958 million in operating cash flows during 2022, compared to $564 million of operating cash flows used in 2021.  The amount of cash flow generated from or used by the aggregate of trade accounts receivable, inventories and trade accounts payable depends upon how effectively the Company manages the cash conversion cycle, which effectively represents the number of days that elapse from the day it pays for the purchase of raw materials and components to the collection of cash from its customers and can be significantly impacted by the timing of collections and payments in a period. • The aggregate of prepaid expenses and other assets, deferred income taxes and accrued expenses and other liabilities used $561 million in operating cash flows during 2022, compared to $94 million used in 2021.  The timing of cash payments for taxes and the impact of deferred tax benefits and charges, various employee-related liabilities, customer funding and accrued expenses drove the majority of this change. Investing Activities Cash flows relating to investing activities consist primarily of cash used for acquisitions and capital expenditures, including instruments leased to customers, cash used for investments and cash proceeds from divestitures of businesses or assets. Net cash used in investing activities was approximately $2.2 billion during 2022 compared to approximately $13.0 billion of net cash used in 2021. Acquisitions, Divestitures and Sale of Investments For a discussion of the Company’s 2022 and 2021 acquisitions and divestitures refer to “—Overview” and Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  In addition, in 2022 and 2021, the Company invested $523 million and $934 million, respectively, in non-marketable equity securities and partnerships. Capital Expenditures Capital expenditures are made primarily for increasing manufacturing capacity, replacing equipment, supporting new product development, improving information technology systems and the manufacture of instruments that are used in OTL arrangements that certain of the Company’s businesses enter into with customers.  Capital expenditures totaled approximately $1.2 billion in 2022 and $1.3 billion in 2021.  The year-over-year decrease in capital spending in 2022 was primarily due to higher 2021 expenditures related to diagnostic testing capacity and declines in expenditures for instruments used in OTL arrangements, partially offset by incremental capital expenditures at Aldevron and Cytiva.  In 2023, the Company expects capital expenditures to be approximately $1.5 billion primarily to increase manufacturing capacity and to support other growth opportunities. During 2021, certain agencies of the U.S. government, including the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority (“BARDA”) within the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, agreed to finance an expansion of production capacity related to chromatography, liquid cell culture media, buffers and cell culture powder media and single-use consumables at certain of the Company’s Biotechnology businesses and the development of diagnostics testing technologies and the expansion of testing production capacity at certain of the Company’s Diagnostics businesses.  The Company’s businesses may enter into similar agreements in the future.  In consideration of this financing, the U.S. government has certain rights, including rights with respect to the allocation of certain of the incremental production capacity associated with such expansion and/or rights in intellectual property produced with its financial assistance.  The amount awarded pursuant to these grants in 2021 totaled $568 million and will be paid over periods ranging from one year to four years.  In 2022, the Company received aggregate payments related to the BARDA grants and other government assistance of $137 million that offset operating expenses of $50 million and purchases of property, plant and equipment of $87 million.  Property, plant and equipment purchased using funds provided by governments are recorded net of government assistance. 54 Financing Activities Cash flows from financing activities consist primarily of cash flows associated with the issuance and repayments of commercial paper, issuance and repayment of long-term debt, borrowings under committed credit facilities, issuance and repurchases of common stock, issuance of preferred stock and payments of cash dividends to shareholders.  Financing activities used cash of approximately $2.6 billion during 2022 compared to approximately $1.3 billion of cash provided during 2021.  The year-over-year increase in cash used by financing activities was due primarily to net repayments of borrowings in 2022 compared to net proceeds from borrowings in 2021. Total debt was approxim ately $19.7 billion and $22.2 billion as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, including notes payable and current portion of long-term debt was $591 million and $8 million as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively.  As of December 31, 2022, the Company had the ability to incur approximately $3.0 billion of additional indebtedness in direct borrowings or under the outstanding commercial paper facilities based on the amounts available under the Company’s $5.0 billion Five-Year Facility which were not being used to backstop outstanding commercial paper balances.  As of December 31, 2022, the Company has classified approximately $2.0 billion of its borrowings outstanding under the euro-denominated commercial paper program as long-term debt in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as the Company has the intent and ability, as supported by availability under the Five-Year Facility, to refinance these borrowings for at least one year from the balance sheet date.  As commercial paper obligations mature, the Company may issue additional short-term commercial paper obligations to refinance all or part of these borrowings, to the extent commercial paper markets are available. Under the Company’s U.S. dollar and euro-denominated commercial paper program, the notes are typically issued at a discount from par, generally based on the ratings assigned to the Company by credit rating agencies at the time of the issuance and prevailing market rates measured by reference to the Secured Overnight Financing Rate or Euro Interbank Offer Rate, depending on the applicable currency of the borrowing. R efer to Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Company’s financing activities and indebtedness, including the Company’s outstanding debt as of December 31, 2022, and the Company’s commercial paper program and F ive-Year Facility . Common Stock Offering and MCPS Offering For a description of the 2020 Common Stock and MCPS Offerings, refer to Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Shelf Registration Statement The Company has filed a “well-known seasoned issuer” shelf registration statement on Form S-3 with the SEC that registers an indeterminate amount of debt securities, common stock, preferred stock, warrants, depositary shares, purchase contracts and units for future issuance.  The Company expects to use net proceeds realized by the Company from future securities sales off this shelf registration statement for general corporate purposes, including without limitation repayment or refinancing of debt or other corporate obligations, acquisitions, capital expenditures, share repurchases, dividends and/or working capital. Stock Repurchase Program Please see Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the Company’s stock repurchase program. Dividends The Company declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.25 per share of Company common stock that was paid on January 27, 2023 to holders of record on December 30, 2022.  In addition, the Company declared a quarterly cash dividend of $12.50 per MCPS Series B that was paid on January 15, 2023 to holders of record as of December 31, 2022.  Aggregate 2022 and 2021 cash payments for dividends on Company common stock were $693 million and $578 million, respectively, and aggregate 2022 and 2021 cash payments for the dividends on the Company’s MCPS were $125 million and $164 million, respectively.  The year-over-year increase in dividend payments in 2022 primarily relates to an increase in the quarterly dividend rate on common stock effective with respect to the dividend paid in the second quarter of 2022, partially offset by lower dividends paid on the MCPS Series A as a result of their conversion into common shares in April 2022. Cash and Cash Requirements As of December 31, 2022, the Company held approximately $6.0 billion of cash and cash equivalents that were on deposit with financial institutions or invested in highly liquid investment-grade debt instruments with a maturity of 90 days or less with an approximate weighted average annual interest rate of 2.09%.  Of the cash and cash equivalents, approximately $3.4 billion was held within the United States and approximately $2.6 billion was held outside of the United States.  The Company will continue to have cash requirements to support general corporate purposes, which may include working capital needs, capital expenditures, acquisitions and investments, paying interest and servicing debt, paying taxes and any related interest or penalties, 55 funding its restructuring activities and pension plans as required, paying dividends to shareholders, repurchasing shares of the Company’s common stock and supporting other business needs. The Company generally intends to use available cash and internally generated funds to meet these cash requirements, but in the event that additional liquidity is required, the Company may also borrow under its commercial paper programs (if available) or borrow under the Company’s Five-Year Facility, enter into new credit facilities and either borrow directly thereunder or use such credit facilities to backstop additional borrowing capacity under its commercial paper programs (if available) and/or access the capital markets.  The Company also may from time to time seek to access the capital markets to take advantage of favorable interest rate environments or other market conditions. While repatriation of some cash held outside the United States may be restricted by local laws, most of the Company’s foreign cash could be repatriated to the United States.  Following enactment of the TCJA and the associated Transition Tax, in general, repatriation of cash to the United States can be completed with no incremental U.S. tax; however, repatriation of cash could subject the Company to non-U.S. taxes on distributions.  The cash that the Company’s non-U.S. subsidiaries hold for indefinite reinvestment is generally used to finance non-U.S. operations and investments, including acquisitions.  The income taxes, if any, applicable to such earnings including basis differences in our non-U.S. subsidiaries are not readily determinable.  As of December 31, 2022, management believes that it has sufficient sources of liquidity to satisfy its cash needs, including its cash needs in the United States. During 2022, the Company contributed $10 million to its U.S. defined benefit pension plans and $40 million to its non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans.  During 2023, the Company’s cash contribution requirements for its U.S. and its non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans are forecasted to be approximately $10 million and $35 million, respectively.  The ultimate amounts to be contributed depend upon, among other things, legal requirements, underlying asset returns, the plan’s funded status, the anticipated tax deductibility of the contribution, local practices, market conditions, interest rates and other factors. Contractual and Other Obligations For a description of the Company’s debt and lease obligations, commitments, and litigation and contingencies, refer to Notes 10, 14, 17 and 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Legal Proceedings Refer to Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding legal proceedings and contingencies, and for a discussion of risks related to legal proceedings and contingencies, refer to “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES Management’s discussion and analysis of the Company’s financial condition and results of operations is based upon the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States.  The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities.  The Company bases these estimates and judgments on historical experience, the current economic environment and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.  Actual results may differ materially from these estimates and judgments. The Company believes the following accounting estimates are most critical to an understanding of its financial statements.  Estimates are considered to be critical if they meet both of the following criteria: (1) the estimate requires assumptions about material matters that are uncertain at the time the estimate is made, and (2) material changes in the estimate are reasonably likely from period-to-period.  For a detailed discussion on the application of these and other accounting estimates, refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Acquired Intangibles —The Company’s business acquisitions, including the Cytiva and Aldevron acquisitions, typically result in the recognition of goodwill, developed technology and other intangible assets, which affect the amount of future period amortization expense and possible impairment charges that the Company may incur.  The fair values of acquired intangibles are determined using information available near the acquisition date based on estimates and assumptions that are deemed reasonable by the Company.  Significant assumptions include the discount rates and certain assumptions that form the basis of the forecasted results of the acquired business including earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”), revenue, revenue growth rates, royalty rates and technology obsolescence rates.  These assumptions are forward looking and could be affected by future economic and market conditions.  The Company engages third-party valuation specialists who review the Company’s critical assumptions and calculations of the fair value of acquired intangible assets in connection with significant acquisitions.  In connection with acquisitions during the year ended December 31, 2022, the Company recognized aggregate goodwill of $427 million and intangible assets of $218 million.  Refer to Notes 1, 2 and 11 to 56 the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the Company’s policies relating to goodwill, acquired intangibles and acquisitions. In performing its goodwill impairment testing, the Company estimates the fair value of its reporting units primarily using a market-based approach which relies on current trading multiples of forecasted EBITDA for companies operating in businesses similar to each of the Company’s reporting units to calculate an estimated fair value of each reporting unit.  In evaluating the estimates derived by the market-based approach, management makes judgments about the relevance and reliability of the multiples by considering factors unique to its reporting units, including operating results, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows, and transactions and marketplace data as well as judgments about the comparability of the market proxies selected.  There are inherent uncertainties related to these assumptions and management’s judgment in applying them to the analysis of goodwill impairment. As a result of the Company’s change to its reportable segments in the fourth quarter of 2022, the Company also changed its reporting units.  As of December 31, 2022, the Company had eight reporting units for goodwill impairment testing.  Reporting units resulting from recent acquisitions generally present the highest risk of impairment.  Management believes the impairment risk associated with these reporting units generally decreases as these businesses are integrated into the Company and better positioned for potential future earnings growth.  The Company performed the annual goodwill impairments analysis on both the prior five reporting units (that existed before the change in reportable segments) as well as the Company’s eight reporting units (that resulted from the change in reportable segments).  The Company’s annual goodwill impairment analysis and the analysis after the change in the Company’s reporting units in 2022 indicated that in all instances, the fair values of the Company’s reporting units exceeded their carrying values and consequently did not result in an impairment charge.  The excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value (expressed as a percentage of carrying value for the respective reporting unit) for each of the Company’s eight reporting units as of the testing date ranged from approximately 145% to approximately 565%.  In the test of the prior five reporting units, the excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value for each of the previous reporting units as of the testing date also ranged from approximately 145% to approximately 565%.  To evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value calculations used in both goodwill impairment tests, the Company applied a hypothetical 10% decrease to the fair values of each reporting unit and compared those hypothetical values to the reporting unit carrying values in both tests.  Based on this hypothetical 10% decrease, the excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value (expressed as a percentage of carrying value for the respective reporting unit) for each of the Company’s reporting units ranged from approximately 120% to approximately 500%. The Company reviews identified intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the related carrying amounts may not be recoverable.  Determining whether an impairment loss occurred for finite-lived intangibles requires a comparison of the carrying amount to the sum of undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated by the asset.  These analyses require management to make judgments and estimates about future revenues, expenses, market conditions and discount rates related to these assets.  Indefinite-lived intangibles are subject to impairment testing at least annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that potential impairment exists.  Determining whether an impairment loss occurred for indefinite-lived intangible assets involves calculating the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible assets and comparing the fair value to their carrying value.  If the fair value is less than the carrying value, the difference is recorded as an impairment loss.  Refer to Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of intangible assets impairment charges recorded during 2022. If actual results are not consistent with management’s estimates and assumptions, goodwill and other intangible assets may be overstated and a charge would need to be taken against net earnings which would adversely affect the Company’s financial statements. Contingent Liabilities —As discussed in “Item 3.  Legal Proceedings” and Notes 8 and 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company is, from time to time, subject to a variety of litigation and similar contingent liabilities incidental to its business (or the business operations of previously owned entities).  The Company recognizes a liability for any legal contingency or contract settlement expense that is known or probable of occurrence and reasonably estimable.  These assessments require judgments concerning matters such as litigation developments and outcomes, the anticipated outcome of negotiations, the number of future claims, the cost of both pending and future claims and the value of the elements in the outcome.  In addition, because most contingencies are resolved over long periods of time, liabilities may change in the future due to various factors, including those discussed in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  If the reserves established by the Company with respect to these contingent liabilities are inadequate, the Company would be required to incur an expense equal to the amount of the loss incurred in excess of the reserves, which would adversely affect the Company’s financial statements. Income Taxes —For a description of the Company’s income tax accounting policies, refer to Notes 1 and 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  The Company establishes valuation allowances for its deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that 57 some or all of the deferred tax asset will not be realized.  This requires management to make judgments and estimates regarding: (1) the timing and amount of the reversal of taxable temporary differences, (2) expected future taxable income and (3) the impact of tax planning strategies.  Future changes to tax rates would also impact the amounts of deferred tax assets and liabilities and could have an adverse impact on the Company’s financial statements. The Company provides for unrecognized tax benefits when, based upon the technical merits, it is “more likely than not” that an uncertain tax position will not be sustained upon examination.  Judgment is required in evaluating tax positions and determining income tax provisions.  The Company re-evaluates the technical merits of its tax positions and may recognize an uncertain tax benefit in certain circumstances, including when: (1) a tax audit is completed; (2) applicable tax laws change, including a tax case ruling or legislative guidance; or (3) the applicable statute of limitations expires. In addition, certain of the Company’s tax returns are currently under review by tax authorities including in Denmark and the United States (refer to “—Results of Operations—Income Taxes” and Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements).  Management believes the positions taken in these returns are in accordance with the relevant tax laws.  However, the outcome of these audits is uncertain and could result in the Company being required to record charges for prior year tax obligations which could have a material adverse impact to the Company’s financial statements, including its effective tax rate. An increase of 1.0% in the Company’s 2022 nominal tax rate would have resulted in an additional income tax provision for continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2022 of $83 million. Valuation of Investments in Equity Securities —For a description of the Company’s investments in equity securities and partnerships refer to Notes 1, 9 and 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  The Company invests in publicly-traded securities, non-marketable securities of early-stage companies and equity method investments, including partnerships that invest primarily in early-stage companies. Investments in early-stage companies have significant risks, including uncertainty regarding the investee company’s ability to successfully develop new technologies and services, bring these new technologies and services to market and gain market acceptance, maintain adequate capitalization and access to cash or other forms of liquidity, and retain critical management personnel.  Refer to “Item 1A. Risk Factors” for a further discussion of the risks related to investing in early-stage companies. The Company’s investments in publicly traded securities are measured at fair value based on quotes in active markets.  For investments in non-marketable equity securities where the Company does not have influence over the investee, the Company has elected the measurement alternative and records these investments at cost and adjusts the carrying value for impairments and observable price changes with a same or similar security from the same issuer adjusted to reflect the specific rights and preferences of the securities, if applicable.  Valuations of non-marketable equity securities are complex and require judgment due to the absence of market prices, lack of liquidity and the risks inherent in early-stage companies.  The uncertainty in the process of valuing securities for which a ready market does not exist may cause our estimated values of these securities to differ significantly from the values that would have been derived had a ready market for the securities existed, and those differences could be material. The Company accounts for its investments in the partnerships using the equity method.  Accordingly, the investments are initially recorded at cost and adjusted each period for the Company’s share of the partnership’s income or loss and distributions received.  The partnerships’ investments are recorded by the partnerships on an estimated fair value basis and pose the same risks and require the same valuation judgments discussed above.  As a result, changes in the value of investments in the partnership will have a direct impact on the Company’s earnings.  Impairment losses are recognized to reduce the investment’s carrying value to its fair value if there is a decline in fair value below carrying value that is considered to be other-than-temporary.  To determine whether there is an other-than-temporary impairment, the Company uses qualitative and quantitative valuation methods. Realized and unrealized gains and losses for these investments in equity securities and partnerships are recorded in other income (expense), net, in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings.  A 10% decrease in the carrying value of the Company’s investments in equity securities and partnerships as of December 31, 2022 would result in a loss of approximately $180 million. NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS For a discussion of the new accounting standards impacting the Company, refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.