********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

For an enterprise as large and complex as the Company, a wide range of factors could materially affect future developments and performance. In addition to the factors affecting specific business operations identified in connection with the description of these operations and the financial results of these operations elsewhere in our filings with the SEC, the most significant factors affecting our business include the following: RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESSES AND INDUSTRY Declines in U.S., global and regional economic conditions adversely affect the profitability of our businesses. Declines in economic conditions, such as recessions, other less severe slowdowns in economic activity and/or inflationary conditions in the U.S. and other regions of the world in which we do business typically adversely affect demand for our products and services and/or costs to operate our businesses, reducing our revenue and earnings. Past declines in economic conditions reduced or resulted in slower growth than expected in, among other things, guest spending at our parks and resorts, purchases of and prices for advertising on our platforms and purchases of Company-branded consumer products, and we expect similar impacts as such conditions recur. Recent inflationary conditions increased certain of our costs, including at our parks 17 and resorts. While a number of different factors affect the demand for our products and services, actual or perceived economic conditions could contribute to lower attendance or spending at our parks and experiences businesses, prices that MVPDs pay for our cable programming, purchases of and prices for advertising on our DTC products and linear platforms, subscription levels for our cable programming or DTC platforms or licensing fees, while also continuing to increase the prices we pay for goods, services and labor. Even if inflationary pressures moderate, we expect certain costs, such as for labor, to remain elevated. In addition, an increase in price levels generally, or in price levels in a particular sector, could result in a shift in consumer demand away from the entertainment and experiences we offer, which could also adversely affect our revenues and, at the same time, increase our costs, including borrowing costs as a result of elevated interest rates, making it more difficult to obtain financing for our operations and investments on favorable terms. A decline in economic conditions or a failure of conditions to improve as anticipated could impact implementation or success of our business plans, such as our plans to increase investment in our Experiences segment, the realignment of our cost structure and plans for our DTC ad-supported services, enhancements, pricing structure and price increases. Unfavorable economic conditions also impair the ability of those with whom we do business to satisfy their obligations to us. The adverse impact on our businesses of actual or perceived declines in economic conditions or a failure of conditions to improve as anticipated will depend, in part, on their severity and duration and our ability to mitigate these impacts on our businesses is limited. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates impact our revenues and the profitability of our businesses. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar impact our revenues and the profitability of our businesses, including by impacting the cost in U.S. dollars of providing our goods and services, our revenues in U.S. dollars generated by our international businesses and the international demand for our domestic products and services. The current or continued strength in the value of the U.S. dollar adversely impacts the U.S. dollar value of revenue we receive and expect to receive from other markets and contributes to reduced international demand for our domestic products and services, including international travel to our domestic parks and resorts. A decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar often increases the cost of labor, goods and services in, or originating from, non-U.S. markets. Although we hedge exposure to fluctuations in certain foreign currencies, any such hedging activity may not substantially offset the negative financial impact of exchange rate fluctuations and is not expected to offset all such negative financial impact, particularly in periods of sustained U.S. dollar strength relative to multiple foreign currencies. Further, economic or political conditions in certain countries outside the U.S. also have reduced, and could continue to reduce, our ability to hedge exposure to currency fluctuations in those countries or our ability to repatriate revenue from those countries. Changes in technology, in consumer consumption patterns and in how entertainment products are created affect demand for our entertainment products, the revenue we can generate from these products and the cost of producing or distributing these products. The media entertainment and technology businesses in which we participate increasingly depend on our ability to successfully adapt to new technologies including shifting patterns of content consumption and how entertainment products are generated. New technologies affect the demand for our products, the manner in which our products are distributed to consumers, the ways we charge for and receive revenue for our entertainment products and the stability of those revenue streams, the sources and nature of competing content offerings, the time and manner in which consumers acquire and view some of our entertainment products and the options available to advertisers for reaching their desired audiences. These developments have impacted the business model for certain traditional forms of distribution, as evidenced by the industry-wide decline in ratings for broadcast and cable television, the reduction in demand for home entertainment sales of theatrical content, the development of alternative distribution channels for broadcast and cable programming and declines in subscriber levels for traditional cable channels. These developments have decreased advertising and affiliate revenue at some of our linear networks and have led, and may lead in the future, to the impairment of the value of certain of our assets. In addition, theater-going to watch movies has remained below pre-pandemic levels. Rules governing new technological developments, such as developments in artificial intelligence (AI), including generative AI and large language model tools, remain unsettled, and these developments may affect aspects of our existing business model, including revenue streams for the use of our IP, how we create our entertainment products and the competition we face. In order to respond to the impact of new technologies on our businesses, we regularly consider, and from time to time implement new initiatives and changes to our business models, including by developing, investing in and acquiring DTC products, reorganizing our media and entertainment businesses to advance our DTC strategies and developing new media offerings. There can be no assurance that our DTC offerings, new media offerings and other efforts will successfully respond to technological changes. In addition, declines in certain traditional forms of distribution impacts the cost of content allocable to our DTC offerings, negatively impacting the profitability of our DTC offerings. As part of our DTC strategy, we forgo certain revenue from certain traditional sources as we invest in our DTC offerings. Since launch, our DTC streaming services experienced significant losses. There can be no assurance that the DTC model and other business models we may develop will each be or remain profitable or be as profitable over the long term as our historic business models. 18 We face risks relating to misalignment with public and consumer tastes and preferences for entertainment, travel and consumer products, which impact demand for our entertainment offerings and products and the profitability of our businesses. Our businesses create entertainment, travel and consumer products, the success of which depends substantially on consumer tastes and preferences that change in often unpredictable ways. The success of our businesses depends on our ability to consistently produce compelling creative content, which may be distributed, among other ways, through DTC platforms, broadcast, cable, theaters and used in theme park attractions, hotels and other resort facilities and travel experiences and consumer products. Such distribution must meet the changing preferences of the broad consumer market and respond to competition from an expanding array of choices facilitated by technological developments in the delivery of content. The success of our theme parks, resorts, cruise ships and experiences, as well as our theatrical releases, depends on demand for out-of-home entertainment experiences. Demand for certain out-of-home entertainment experiences, such as theater-going to watch movies, has not returned to pre-pandemic levels. In addition, many of our businesses depend on acceptance of our offerings and products by consumers outside the U.S. The success of our businesses therefore depends on our ability to successfully predict and adapt to continually evolving consumer tastes and preferences outside as well as inside the U.S. Moreover, we must often make substantial investments in content production and acquisition, acquisition of sports and programming rights, theme park attractions, cruise ships or hotels and other facilities or customer facing platforms before we know the extent to which these products will earn consumer acceptance, and the market, economic or social conditions are sometimes significantly different from the ones we anticipated at the time of the investment decisions. Further, preferences of some consumers are affected by their perceptions of our position on matters of public interest, including regarding environmental and social issues. Generally, revenues from, and profitability of, each of our businesses are adversely impacted when our entertainment offerings and products, as well as our methods to make our offerings and products available to consumers, do not align with constantly evolving consumer preferences and tastes or achieve sufficient consumer acceptance. A variety of uncontrollable events disrupt our businesses, reduce demand for or consumption of our products and services, impair our ability to provide our products and services or increase the cost or reduce the profitability of providing our products and services. The operation and profitability of our businesses and demand for and consumption of our products and services, particularly our parks and experiences businesses, are highly dependent on the general environment for travel and tourism, including in the specific regions in which our parks and experiences businesses operate. In addition, we have extensive international operations, including our international theme parks and resorts, which are dependent on domestic and international regulations consistent with trade and investment in those regions. The operation of our businesses and the environment for travel and tourism, as well as demand for and consumption of our other entertainment products, is subject to significant adverse impact in the U.S., globally or in specific regions as a result of a variety of factors beyond our control, including: health concerns; adverse weather conditions arising from short-term weather patterns or long-term climate change, including longer and more regular excessive heat conditions, catastrophic events or natural disasters (such as excessive heat or rain, hurricanes, typhoons, floods, droughts, tsunamis and earthquakes); international, political or military developments, including trade and other international disputes and social unrest; macroeconomic conditions, including a decline in economic activity, inflation and foreign exchange rates; and terrorist attacks. These events and others, such as fluctuations in travel and energy costs, supply chain disruptions and malware and other cyber-related attacks or intrusions or other widespread computing, telecommunications or payment processing failures, from time to time have disrupted, and may in the future disrupt, our ability to provide our products and services or in certain instances may affect our ability to obtain insurance coverage with respect to some of these events. An incident or other event that affected our property directly, including a security incident, earthquake or hurricane, would have a direct impact on our ability to provide goods and services and could result in closure of impacted operations or have an extended effect of discouraging consumers from attending our facilities. Moreover, the costs of protecting against such incidents reduces the profitability of our operations. For example, COVID-19 and measures to prevent its spread impacted our businesses in a number of ways, including the closure of our theme parks and resorts, suspension of cruise ship sailings and guided tours, delayed, or in some cases, shortened or canceled, theatrical releases and disruptions in the production and availability of content, significantly reducing revenues across all of our segments. Certain of our business operations have been temporarily disrupted by payment processing outages and widespread computing failures. Hurricanes, such as Hurricanes Helene and Milton, which in the case of Hurricane Milton caused Walt Disney World Resort theme parks in Florida to close for one full and partial day, have impacted the operations and profitability of Walt Disney World Resort and may do so in the future. The Company has paused certain operations in certain regions, including in response to sanctions, trade restrictions and related developments and the profitability of certain operations has been impacted as a result of events in the corresponding regions. In addition, we derive affiliate fees and royalties from the distribution of our programming, sales of our licensed goods and services by third parties, and the management of businesses operated under brands licensed from the Company, and we are therefore dependent on the successes of those third parties for that portion of our revenue. The profitability of one or more of our businesses could be adversely impacted by the significant contraction of distribution channels for our products and services, 19 including through third-party licensees or sellers of our licensed goods and services. In addition, third-party suppliers provide products and services essential to the operation of a number of our businesses. A wide variety of factors could influence the success of those third parties and if negative factors significantly impacted a sufficient number of those third parties or materially impacted a supplier of a significant product or service, the profitability of one or more of our businesses could be adversely affected. In specific geographic markets, we have experienced delayed and/or partial payments from certain third parties due to liquidity issues. We obtain insurance against the risk of losses relating to some of these events, generally including certain physical damage to our property and resulting business interruption, certain injuries occurring on our property and some liabilities for alleged breach of legal responsibilities. When insurance is obtained it is subject to deductibles, exclusions, terms, conditions and limits of liability. The types and levels of coverage we obtain vary from time to time depending on our view of the likelihood of specific types and levels of loss in relation to the cost of obtaining coverage for such types and levels of loss and we experience losses not covered by our insurance, which could be material. We face risks related to changes in our business strategy, which have affected and may continue to affect our cost structure, the profitability of our businesses and/or the value of our assets. We adjust our business strategies from time to time in connection with changes in senior management and in our efforts to respond to changes in technology, consumer purchasing and consumption patterns, acceptance of our entertainment offerings, the market for advertising, macroeconomic conditions and other changes in the business environment. For example, in fiscal 2024, we announced entering into a definitive agreement to transfer Star India into a joint venture and related impairment charges; in fiscal 2023, we reorganized our media and entertainment operations, which had been previously reported in one segment, into two segments, Entertainment and Sports; in fiscal 2023 we announced that we would review content, primarily on our DTC services, for alignment with a strategic change in our approach to content curation, resulting in removal of certain content from our platforms and related impairment charges; in fiscal 2022, we announced plans to introduce an ad-supported Disney+ service, new pricing model and price increases and cost realignment; and we have announced exploration of a number of new types of businesses. Changes in strategy, such as was the case with the most recent reorganization of our media and entertainment operations, can lead to workforce disruptions. Our new business strategies are, among other things, subject to execution risk and may not produce the anticipated benefits, such as supporting our growth strategies and enhancing shareholder value. For example, notwithstanding our continuing efforts to rationalize costs, the cost of executing on our DTC strategy may continue to grow or be reduced more slowly than anticipated, which may impact our distribution strategy across businesses/distribution platforms, the types of content we distribute through various businesses/distribution platforms, the timing and sequencing of content windows and ultimately, the profitability of our DTC products and other businesses/distribution platforms. Over the long term, our new organization and strategies could be less successful than our previous organizational structure and strategies. In addition, changing technology, consumer purchasing patterns and acceptance of content offerings and macroeconomic conditions may impair the value of our assets. We incur costs in connection with changes to our business strategy and have needed and may in the future need to write-down the value of our assets. Among other assets, we have impaired the value of our content primarily at our DTC services and goodwill and intangible assets at our linear networks and impaired the value of certain of our retail store assets. We may write down other assets as our strategy evolves to account for the business environment. We also make investments in existing or new businesses, including investments in international expansion of our business and in new business lines. For example, in fiscal 2024, we announced plans for additional expansion of our fleet of cruise ships, and in recent years to expand investment in our Experiences segment. In addition, in recent years, we have made significant investments in our businesses, such as expansion and renovation of certain of our theme parks, additional cruise ships, the acquisition of TFCF Corporation (TFCF) and investments related to DTC offerings. The ultimate success of these investments is uncertain, some of these and future investments may ultimately result in returns that are negative or lower than anticipated, and these investments may impact the resources available to, and the profitability of, our other businesses. In addition, our costs increase in connection with these investments, such as additional expenses incurred with the launch on new cruise ships, and we may have significant charges associated with the write-down of assets if the investments are not as successful as anticipated, as occurred in connection with the closure of Star Wars: Galactic Starcruiser. Even if our strategies are effective in the long term, our new offerings will generally not be profitable in the short term, results of our new offerings are unlikely to be even quarter over quarter and we may not expand into new markets as or when anticipated. Our ability to forecast for new businesses is impacted by our lack of experience operating in those new businesses, speed with which the competitive landscape changes, volatility beyond our control (such as the events beyond our control noted above) and our ability to obtain or develop the content and rights on which our projections are based. Accordingly, we may not achieve our forecasted outcomes. 20 Increased competitive pressures impact our revenues, increase our costs and impact the profitability of our businesses. We face substantial competition in each of our businesses from alternative providers of the products and services we offer and from other forms of entertainment, lodging, tourism and recreational activities. This includes, among other types, competition for human resources, content and other resources we require in operating our business. For example: • Our programming and production operations compete to obtain creative, performing, production and business talent, sports and other programming, story properties, advertiser support, production facilities and market share with traditional and new media platforms, including other video-on-demand services and sources of broadband delivered content, studio operators and television networks. • Our television networks and stations and DTC offerings compete for the sale of advertising time with traditional and new media platforms, including other television and video-on-demand services and various forms of internet and mobile delivered content, which offer advertising delivery technologies that are more targeted than can be achieved through traditional means, as well as with newspapers, magazines, billboards and radio stations. • Our television networks compete for carriage of their programming with other programming providers. • Our theme parks and resorts and experiences compete for guests with all other forms of entertainment, lodging, tourism and recreation activities and compete for technology, creative, performing and business talent, including with other theme park and resort operators. • Our content sales/licensing operations compete for customers with all other forms of entertainment. • Our consumer products business competes with other licensors and creators of IP. • Our DTC streaming services compete for customers with an increasing number of competitors’ DTC offerings, all other forms of media and all other forms of entertainment, as well as for technology, creative, performing and business talent and for content. Technological developments, including developments in generative AI tools that can be used to create competing low-cost content, and changes in market structure, including consolidation of suppliers of resources and distribution channels, increase competition in these areas. Increased competition raises the cost of programming, including for sports and other products, and diverts consumers from our products and services or to other products and services or other forms of entertainment and experiences. In addition, given the nature of travel planning, consumers typically delay their consumption of certain of our products and services, such as our theme parks and resorts, in connection with planned major product launches of regional travel industry competitors. Each of these competitive pressures could reduce our revenue and increase our marketing costs. Competition for the acquisition of resources can further increase the cost of producing our products and services; change the composition of our offerings, including sports; deprive us of talent needed for our entertainment and experiences businesses, including the talent necessary to produce high quality creative material; increase employee turnover and staffing instability; or increase our labor costs. Competition also reduces, or limits growth in, prices for our products and services, including advertising rates and subscription fees at our linear networks and DTC offerings, parks and resorts admissions and room rates and prices for consumer products from which we derive license revenues. We face risks related to the renewal of long-term programming or distribution contracts on sufficiently favorable terms. We enter into long-term contracts for both the acquisition and the distribution of media programming and products, including contracts for the acquisition of programming rights for sporting events and other programs, and contracts for the distribution of our programming to content distributors. As these contracts expire, we renew or renegotiate the contracts, which from time to time has led to service blackouts when distribution contracts expired before renewal terms were agreed. We may lose programming rights or distribution rights if we are unable to renew these contracts on acceptable terms. As a result, our portfolio of acquired programming rights, such as sporting events, and the distributors of our programming and the portfolio of programming rights our distributors acquire have changed and will continue to change over time. Even if these contracts are renewed, the cost of obtaining certain programming rights has increased and may continue to increase (or increase at faster rates than our historical experience) and programming distributors, facing pressures resulting from increased subscription fees and alternative distribution channels, demand terms (including with respect to the pricing for, and the nature and amount of, programming distributed) that reduce our revenue from distribution of programs or increase revenue at slower rates than our historical experience. For example, the terms of recent renewals of carriage agreements have included fewer of our linear networks or the opportunity to offer multiple genre-specific bundle options of fewer than all our linear networks while providing for certain of our DTC streaming services to be made available to the distributor’s subscribers. Moreover, our ability to renew these contracts on favorable terms is affected by a number of factors, such as consolidation in the market for program distribution and the entrance of new participants in the market for distribution of content on digital platforms. With respect to the acquisition of programming rights, particularly sports programming rights, the impact of these long-term contracts on our results over the term of the contracts depends on a number of factors, including the strength of advertising markets, subscription levels and programming rights costs increases, effectiveness of marketing efforts and the size of viewer audiences. There can be 21 no assurance that revenues from programming based on these rights will exceed the cost of the rights plus the other costs of producing and distributing the programming. We face risks related to environmental, social and governance matters and any related reporting obligations. U.S. and international regulators, investors and other stakeholders are increasingly focused on environmental, social and governance matters. For example, new domestic and international laws and regulations relating to environmental, social and governance matters, including environmental sustainability, climate change, human rights and human capital management, have been adopted or are under consideration, some of which include specific, target-driven disclosure requirements or obligations. Our response has increased our compliance costs, including from increased investment in technology and appropriate expertise and required the implementation of new reporting processes, entailing additional compliance risk. In addition, we have undertaken or announced a number of related actions and goals, which will require changes to operations and ongoing investment. There is no assurance that our initiatives will achieve their intended outcomes or that we will achieve any of these goals. Consumer, government and other stakeholder perceptions of our initiatives often differ widely and present risks to our reputation and brands. In addition, our ability to implement some initiatives or achieve some goals is dependent on external factors. For example, our ability to meet certain environmental sustainability goals or initiatives will depend in part on third-party collaboration, the availability of suppliers that can satisfy new requirements, mitigation innovations and/or the availability of economically feasible solutions at scale. We face risks related to damage to our reputation or brands. Our reputation and globally recognizable brands are integral to the success of our businesses. Because our brands engage consumers across our businesses, some types of damage to our reputation or brands have an impact on all of our businesses. Because some of our brands are globally recognized, some types of brand damage are not locally contained. Maintenance of the reputation of our Company and brands depends on many factors, including the quality of our offerings, maintenance of trust with our customers and our ability to successfully innovate. In addition, we may pursue brand or product integration combining previously separate brands or products targeting different audiences under one brand or pursue other business initiatives inconsistent with one or more of our brands, and there is no assurance that these initiatives will be accepted by our customers and not adversely impact one or more of our brands. Significant negative claims or publicity regarding the Company or its operations, products, management, employees, practices, business partners, business decisions, social responsibility and culture, which may be amplified by social media, adversely impact our brands or reputation, even if such claims are untrue. Damage to our reputation or brands could impact our sales, business opportunities, profitability, recruiting and valuation of our securities. Various risks may impact the success of our DTC streaming services. The success of our DTC strategy and profitability of our DTC streaming services will be impacted by the success of the reorganization of our media and entertainment business and the strategic change in our approach to content curation initiated in fiscal 2023; our ability to drive subscriber additions and retention based on the attractiveness of our content, manage churn, achieve the desired financial impact of our DTC pricing, bundling and distribution determinations, the Disney+ ad supported service, monetization and cost containment strategy and the launch of the ESPN flagship DTC service; and the effects of our determinations with regard to distribution for our creative content across windows. The initial costs of marketing campaigns are generally recognized in the business of initial exploitation, and amortization of capitalized production costs and licensed programming rights are generally allocated across businesses based on the estimated relative value of the distribution windows. Accordingly, our distribution determinations impact the costs of each business, including the applicable DTC service. There are a number of competing DTC businesses. Consumers may not be willing to pay for an expanding set of DTC services at increasing prices, potentially exacerbated by challenging economic conditions, such as during periods of high inflation or declines in economic activity. In addition, such economic conditions negatively impact the purchase of and price for advertising on our DTC streaming services. We face competition for creative talent and sports and other programming rights and are sometimes not successful in recruiting and retaining talent and obtaining desired programming rights and face increased costs to do so. We have experienced flat subscriber growth or net losses of subscribers in periods. Our content does not always successfully attract and retain subscribers in the quantities that we expect. Our content is subject to cost pressures and may cost more than we expect. We may not successfully manage our costs to meet our profitability goals. Government regulation, including revised foreign content and ownership regulations as well as government-imposed content restrictions, impacts the implementation of our DTC business plans. The highly competitive environment in which we operate puts pricing pressure on our DTC offerings and may require us to lower our prices or not take price increases to attract or retain customers or lead to higher churn rates. These and other risks may impact the profitability and success of our DTC streaming services. Potential credit ratings actions, increases in interest rates, or volatility in the U.S. and global financial markets could impede access to, or increase the cost of, financing our operations and investments. Our borrowing costs have been and can be affected by short- and long-term debt ratings assigned by nationally recognized ratings agencies that are based, in part, on the Company’s performance as measured by credit metrics such as leverage and interest coverage ratios. Our elevated indebtedness and leverage ratios in response to the financial impact of COVID-19 on our 22 businesses resulted in S&P Global Ratings and Fitch Ratings downgrading our debt ratings. As of September 28, 2024, Moody’s Ratings’ long- and short-term debt ratings for the Company were A2 and P-1 (Stable), respectively; S&P Global Ratings’ long- and short-term debt ratings for the Company were A- and A-2 (Positive), respectively; and Fitch Ratings’ long- and short-term debt ratings for the Company were A- and F2 (Stable), respectively. Any future downgrades could increase our cost of borrowing and/or make it more difficult for us to obtain financing on acceptable terms. In addition, increases in interest rates have increased our cost of borrowing and volatility in U.S. and global financial markets could impact our access to, or further increase the cost of, financing. Past disruptions in the U.S. and global credit and equity markets made it more difficult for many businesses to obtain financing on acceptable terms. These conditions tended to increase the cost of borrowing and if they recur, our cost of borrowing could increase and it may be more difficult to obtain financing for our operations or investments. Elevated indebtedness or leverage ratios could adversely affect us, including by decreasing our business flexibility. Elevated indebtedness could have the effect of, among other things, reducing our financial flexibility and our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions and other uncontrollable events. Debt repayment obligations could also reduce funds available for investments, capital expenditures, share repurchases and dividends, and other activities and may create competitive disadvantages for us relative to other companies with lower debt levels. Our leverage ratios increased as the result of COVID-19’s impact on financial performance, which caused certain of the credit ratings agencies to downgrade their assessment of our credit ratings. Downgrades to our credit ratings may negatively impact our cost of borrowings and/or make it more difficult for us to obtain financing on acceptable terms. Labor disputes disrupt our operations and adversely affect the profitability of our businesses. A significant number of employees in various parts of our businesses, including employees of our theme parks, and writers, directors, actors and production personnel for our productions are covered by collective bargaining agreements. In addition, some of our employees outside the U.S. are represented by works councils, trade unions or other employee associations. Further, some employees of licensees who manufacture and retailers who sell our licensed consumer products, and employees of providers of programming content (such as sports leagues) are covered by labor agreements with their employers. From time to time, collective bargaining agreements and other labor agreements expire, requiring renegotiation of their terms. In general, labor disputes and work stoppages involving our employees; persons employed on our productions; athletes or others employed by, or otherwise connected with, sports leagues or organizers; or the employees of our licensees or retailers who sell our licensed consumer products or providers of programming content may disrupt or lead to closure of certain operations and reduce our revenues and the profitability of our businesses. For example, in fiscal 2023, members of the Writers Guild of America (WGA) commenced a work stoppage, which lasted for almost five months, and members of SAG-AFTRA, the union representing television and movie actors, also commenced a work stoppage, which lasted for almost four months. These work stoppages affected our productions and the pipeline for programming and theatrical releases, which resulted in reduced revenue for the impacted businesses. The new collective bargaining agreements with these and another entertainment guild and recently with certain labor unions at our domestic parks and resorts will increase our costs to create our content and to operate our domestic parks and resorts, respectively. In July 2024, members of SAG-AFTRA commenced a work stoppage against video game employers, which is ongoing. As a general matter, resolution of labor disputes and negotiation of new collective bargaining agreements, including as a result of rate increases and other changes to employee benefits, has in the past increased our costs and may increase our costs in the future. The seasonality of certain of our businesses and timing of certain of our product offerings could exacerbate negative impacts on our operations. Each of our businesses is normally subject to seasonal variations and variations in connection with the timing of our product offerings, including as follows: • Revenues at the Experiences segment fluctuate with changes in theme park attendance and resort occupancy resulting from the seasonal nature of vacation travel and leisure activities and seasonal consumer purchasing behavior, which generally results in increased revenues during the Company’s first and fourth fiscal quarters. Peak attendance and resort occupancy generally occur during the summer months when school vacations occur and during early winter and spring holiday periods. Revenues at the Experiences segment also sometimes fluctuate with changes in theme park attendance and resort occupancy resulting from special celebrations or events that increase demand in the applicable periods and decrease demand in prior or later periods as guests time their vacations to occur during such special celebrations or events. In addition, licensing revenues fluctuate with the timing and performance of our theatrical releases and cable programming broadcasts. • Revenues from television networks and stations are subject to seasonal advertising patterns and changes in viewership levels, including related to certain sporting events. In general, domestic general entertainment linear networks advertising revenues are typically somewhat higher during the fall and somewhat lower during the summer months, 23 and sports advertising revenues are impacted by the timing of sports seasons and events, which varies throughout the year and/or take place periodically. • Revenues from content sales/licensing fluctuate due to the timing of content releases across various distribution markets. Release dates and methods are determined by a number of factors, including, among others, competition, and the timing of vacation and holiday periods. • DTC revenues fluctuate based on: changes in the number of subscribers, mix of subscribers to different offerings and subscriber fees; viewership levels; and the demand for sports and film and television content. Each of these is sensitive to the availability of content, which varies from time to time throughout the year based on, among other things, sports seasons, content production schedules and sports league work stoppages. Accordingly, negative impacts on our business occurring during a time of typical high seasonal demand such as our park closures due to hurricane damage during the summer travel season or other high seasons, could have a disproportionate effect on the results of that business for the year. Our operations are impacted by our ability to attract and retain employees and costs of employee wages and health, welfare and retirement benefits, including postretirement medical benefits for some employees and retirees, may reduce our profitability. With approximately 233,000 employees, the success of our businesses is substantially affected by our ability to attract and retain a workforce with the necessary skills for our varied businesses, including executing successfully on succession planning for the talent at all levels necessary to advance the Company’s key objectives and strategies. Further, our profitability is substantially affected by labor costs, including wages and our health, welfare and retirement benefits, including the costs of medical benefits for current employees and the costs of postretirement medical benefits for some current employees and retirees. We may experience significant increases in these costs as a result of macroeconomic, regulatory, competitive and other factors. For example, labor costs in our parks and resorts have increased, and we expect will continue to increase, as a result of collective bargaining agreements and wage laws and regulations where we operate. Further, certain conditions in the healthcare industry, such as prolonged workforce shortages or rising prescription drug prices, may lead to an increase in the cost of medical insurance and expenses. In addition, for benefits provided to certain employees, changes in asset values, investment returns and discount rates used to calculate pension and postretirement medical expense and related assets and liabilities can be volatile and may have an unfavorable impact on our costs in some years. These factors may also increase future funding requirements for these benefit plans. There can be no assurance that we will succeed in attracting and retaining the human resources necessary for the success of our businesses or in limiting cost increases from wages and other employee benefits, which could reduce the profitability of our businesses. We face risks related to costs and expenses in connection with the acquisition of NBC Universal’s (NBCU) equity interest in Hulu and the TFCF acquisition. On November 1, 2023, NBCU exercised its right to require the Company to purchase NBCU’s equity interest in Hulu under a put/call arrangement between the parties. The purchase price for NBCU’s equity interest in Hulu will be determined based on NBCU’s equity ownership percentage of the greater of Hulu’s equity fair value as of September 30, 2023 based on a contractual appraisal process, and a guaranteed floor value. Further, the Company will share with NBCU 50% of the Company’s tax benefit from the purchase of NBCU’s interest in Hulu, which payments are expected to be made primarily over a 15-year period. In May 2024, the Company and NBCU entered into a confidential arbitration to resolve a dispute regarding the contractual appraisal process, in which the parties seek declaratory relief, equitable relief and unspecified damages (see Note 2 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information). In addition, we may incur significant costs and expenses in connection with the TFCF acquisition, including costs for which we have established reserves or which may lead to reserves in the future. The cost to purchase NBCU’s equity interest in Hulu and related obligations to NBCU and any such other costs could negatively impact the Company’s cash position and result in the Company incurring additional indebtedness. RISKS RELATED TO INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY, CYBERSECURITY AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS The success of our businesses is highly dependent on the existence and maintenance of intellectual property rights in the entertainment products and services we create. The value to us of our IP is dependent on the scope and duration of our rights as defined by applicable laws in the U.S. and abroad and the manner in which those laws are construed. Where those laws are drafted or interpreted in ways that limit the extent or duration of our rights, or if existing laws are changed, our ability to generate revenue from our IP may decrease, or the cost of obtaining and maintaining rights may increase. The terms of some copyrights for IP related to some of our products and services have expired, including the copyright term for the short film Steamboat Willie (1928) and early versions of characters depicted in this film, and other copyrights will expire in the future. For example, in the United States and countries that look to the United States copyright term when shorter than their own, the copyright term for early works and the specific early versions of characters depicted in those works expires at the end of the 95th calendar year after the date the copyright was originally 24 secured in the United States. As copyrights expire, we expect that revenues generated from such IP will be negatively impacted to some extent. The unauthorized use of our IP may increase the cost of protecting rights in our IP or reduce our revenues. The convergence of computing, communications and entertainment devices, increased broadband internet speed and penetration, increased availability and speed of mobile data transmission and increasingly sophisticated attempts to obtain unauthorized access to data systems have made the unauthorized digital copying and distribution of our films, television productions and other creative works easier and faster and protection and the enforcement of IP rights more challenging. The unauthorized distribution and access to entertainment content generally continues to be a significant challenge for IP rights holders. Further, the availability of certain AI tools has facilitated the creation of infringing works based on the unauthorized use of our IP. Inadequate laws or weak enforcement mechanisms to protect entertainment industry IP in one country can adversely affect the results of the Company’s operations worldwide, despite the Company’s efforts to protect its IP rights. Distribution innovations have increased opportunities to access content in unauthorized ways. Additionally, negative economic conditions coupled with a shift in government priorities could lead to less enforcement. These developments require us to devote substantial resources to protecting our IP against unlicensed use and present the risk of increased losses of revenue as a result of unlicensed distribution of our content and other commercial misuses of our IP. The legal landscape for some new technologies, including some AI tools, remains uncertain, and development of the law in this area could impact our ability to protect against infringing uses. With respect to IP developed by the Company and rights acquired by the Company from others, the Company is subject to the risk of challenges to our copyright, trademark and patent rights by third parties. In addition, the availability of copyright protection and other legal protections for IP generated by certain new technologies, such as generative AI, is uncertain. Successful challenges to our rights in IP typically result in increased costs for obtaining rights or the loss of the opportunity to earn revenue from or utilize the IP that is the subject of challenged rights. From time to time, third parties allege that the Company is infringing certain third-party IP rights. Technological changes in industries in which the Company operates and extensive patent coverage in those areas increase the risk of such claims being brought and prevailing. Cybersecurity and other data compromises and/or attempted compromises increase our costs, disrupt our services and business plans, lead to the disclosure of our confidential information, including unauthorized use of our intellectual property, and negatively impact our reputation. We maintain information necessary to conduct our business, including confidential and proprietary information as well as personal information regarding our customers and employees, in digital form. We also use computer and cloud-based systems to deliver our products and services and operate our businesses. Data maintained in digital form is subject to the risk of unauthorized access, modification, exfiltration, destruction or denial of access and our systems are subject to cyberattacks that from time to time result in disruptions in service. We also use many third-party systems and software, which are also subject to supply chain and other cyberattacks. We have developed and maintain an information security program to assess, identify and manage cyber risks and the continued development and maintenance of this program is costly and requires ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies change, including as a result of the proliferation of AI tools, and efforts to overcome security measures become more sophisticated. We face an increasingly challenging cybersecurity environment with expanding and evolving threats from a variety of potential bad actors. While we employ various tools in an effort to protect our data and systems, certain of our defenses remain subject to human error. Remote work by our employees and contractors and those of the third parties with whom we engage create additional risks. Despite our efforts, the risk of a potentially material incident as a result of unauthorized access, modification, exfiltration, destruction or denial of access with respect to data or systems and other cybersecurity attacks cannot be eliminated, and from time to time our systems have been compromised and may in the future be compromised. For example, as previously disclosed in the Company’s Form 10-Q for the third quarter of fiscal 2024, in fiscal 2024 over a terabyte of data from one of the communications systems used by the Company was improperly exfiltrated and released. In addition, we provide confidential, proprietary and personal information to third parties in certain cases, which information and related systems have been compromised and are also subject to the risk of future material compromise. If our information or cyber security systems or data are compromised in a material way, our ability to conduct our business may be impaired, we may lose profitable opportunities or the value of those opportunities may be diminished and, as described above, we may lose revenue as a result of unlicensed use of our intellectual property. We have experienced and may in the future experience cybersecurity attacks that result in the misappropriation of personal information of our customers and/or employees, which may result in reputational damage, loss of business and/or harm to employee morale. Related remediation of harm to our customers and employees or damages arising from litigation and/or fines or other actions we take with respect to judicial or regulatory actions arising out of an incident create additional costs and/or impacts to our businesses. Insurance does not cover all potential losses or damages associated with such attacks or events. Our systems and users and those of third parties with whom we engage are continually attacked, sometimes successfully, and there can be no assurance that future incidents will not have material adverse effects on our operations or financial results. 25 Regulations applicable to our businesses impact the profitability of our businesses. Each of our businesses, including our broadcast networks and television stations, is subject to a variety of U.S. and international regulations, which impact the operations and profitability of our businesses. Some of these regulations include: • U.S. FCC regulation of our television and radio networks, our national programming networks and our owned television stations. See Item 1 — Federal Communications Commission Regulation. • Federal, state and foreign privacy and data protection laws and regulations, including with respect to child safety. See Item 1 — Privacy and Data Protection Regulation. • Regulation of the safety and supply chain of consumer products and theme park operations, including regulation regarding the sourcing, importation and the sale of goods. • Land planning, use and development regulations applicable to our theme parks operations. • Environmental protection regulations. • U.S. and international anti-corruption laws, sanction programs, trade restrictions, anti-money laundering laws or currency controls. • Restrictions on the manner in which content is currently licensed and distributed, ownership restrictions or film or television content requirements, investment obligations or quotas. See Item 1 — International Content Regulation. • Domestic and international labor laws, tax laws and antitrust laws. New laws and regulations, as well as changes in any of these current laws and regulations or regulator activities (or, if applicable, private litigation to enforce such laws and regulations) in any of these areas, or others, may require us to incur additional compliance costs, may restrict our ability to execute on our business strategies as planned or offer products and services in ways that are profitable, and create an increasingly unpredictable regulatory landscape. In addition, ongoing and future developments in international political, trade and security policy may lead to new regulations limiting international trade and investment and disrupting our operations outside the U.S., including our international theme parks and resorts operations in France, mainland China and Hong Kong. For example, in 2022 the U.S. and other countries implemented a series of sanctions against Russia in response to events in Russia and Ukraine; U.S. agencies have enhanced trade restrictions, including new prohibitions on the importation of goods from certain regions and other jurisdictions are considering similar measures; and U.S. state governments have become more active in passing legislation targeted at specific sectors and companies and applying existing laws in novel ways to new technologies, including streaming and online commerce. Further the legal and regulatory landscape for certain new technologies, such as AI, is uncertain and evolving and our compliance obligations could increase our costs or limit how we may use these technologies in one or more of our businesses. Our operations outside the U.S. are affected by the operation of laws in those jurisdictions. Our operations outside the U.S. are in many cases subject to the laws of the jurisdictions in which they operate rather than, or in addition to, U.S. law. Laws in some international jurisdictions differ in significant respects from those in the U.S. These differences can affect our ability to react to changes in our business, and our rights or ability to enforce rights are sometimes different than would be expected under U.S. law. Moreover, enforcement of laws in some international jurisdictions can be inconsistent and unpredictable, which can affect both our ability to enforce our rights and to undertake activities that we believe are beneficial to our business. In addition, the business and political climate in some jurisdictions may encourage corruption, which could reduce our ability to compete successfully in those jurisdictions while remaining in compliance with local laws or U.S. anti-corruption laws applicable to our businesses. As a result, our ability to generate revenue and our expenses in non-U.S. jurisdictions may differ from what would be expected if U.S. law alone governed these operations. RISKS RELATED TO OWNERSHIP OF OUR STOCK The price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile. The price of our common stock has experienced substantial volatility and may continue to be volatile. Various factors have impacted, and may continue to impact, the price of our common stock, including, among others, changes in management; variations in our operating results; variations between our actual results and expectations of securities analysts; changes in our estimates, guidance or business plans; changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; the activities, operating results or stock price of our competitors or other industry participants in the industries in which we operate; the announcement or completion of significant transactions by us or a competitor; events affecting the stock market generally; and the economic and political conditions in the U.S. and internationally, as well as other factors described in this Item 1A. Some of these factors may adversely impact the price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Further, volatility in the price of our common stock may negatively impact one or more of our businesses, including by increasing stock awards for our employees who participate in our stock incentive programs or limiting our financing options for acquisitions and other business expansion. 26 GENERAL RISKS The Company’s amended and restated bylaws provide to the fullest extent permitted by law that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the exclusive forum for certain legal actions between the Company and its stockholders, which could increase costs to bring a claim, discourage claims or limit the ability of the Company’s stockholders to bring a claim in a judicial forum viewed by the stockholders as more favorable for disputes with the Company or the Company’s directors, officers or other employees. The Company’s amended and restated bylaws provide to the fullest extent permitted by law that unless the Company consents in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the sole and exclusive forum for any (i) derivative action or proceeding brought on behalf of the Company, (ii) any action or proceeding asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any current or former director, officer or stockholder of the Company to the Company or the Company’s stockholders, (iii) any action or proceeding asserting a claim arising pursuant to, or seeking to enforce any right, obligation or remedy under, any provision of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the “DGCL”), the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws (as each may be amended from time to time), (iv) any action or proceeding as to which the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware confers jurisdiction on the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware, (v) or any action or proceeding asserting a claim governed by the internal affairs doctrine. The choice of forum provision may increase costs to bring a claim, discourage claims or limit a stockholder’s ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with the Company or the Company’s directors, officers or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against the Company or the Company’s directors, officers and other employees. Alternatively, if a court were to find the choice of forum provision contained in the Company’s amended and restated bylaws to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, the Company may incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions. The exclusive forum provision in the Company’s amended and restated bylaws will not preclude or contract the scope of exclusive federal or concurrent jurisdiction for actions brought under the federal securities laws including the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the respective rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

CONSOLIDATED RESULTS ($ in millions, except per share data) Organization of Information Management’s Discussion and Analysis provides a narrative on the Company’s financial performance and condition that should be read in conjunction with the accompanying financial statements. It includes the following sections: • Consolidated Results and Non-Segment Items • Business Segment Results • Corporate and Unallocated Shared Expenses • Liquidity and Capital Resources • Developments and Trends • Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates • DTC Product Descriptions, Key Definitions and Supplemental Information • Supplemental Guarantor Financial Information In Item 7, we discuss fiscal 2024 and 2023 results and comparisons of fiscal 2024 results to fiscal 2023 results. Discussions of fiscal 2022 results and comparisons of fiscal 2023 results to fiscal 2022 results can be found in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in for the fiscal year ended September 30, 2023. CONSOLIDATED RESULTS AND NON-SEGMENT ITEMS Revenues for fiscal 2024 increased 3%, or $2.5 billion, to $91.4 billion; net income attributable to Disney increased $2.6 billion to income of $5.0 billion compared to $2.4 billion in the prior year; and diluted earnings per share (EPS) from continuing operations attributable to Disney increased to $2.72 compared to $1.29 in the prior year. The EPS increase was due to higher operating income at Entertainment. Revenues Service revenues for fiscal 2024 increased 3%, or $2.3 billion, to $81.8 billion, due to higher subscription revenue, growth at our parks and experiences businesses, and, to a lesser extent, higher advertising revenue. These increases were partially offset 32 by lower theatrical distribution revenue, a decrease in TV/VOD distribution sales and lower affiliate revenue. Service revenues reflected an approximate 1 percentage point decrease due to an unfavorable movement of the U.S. dollar against major currencies including the impact of our hedging program (Foreign Exchange Impact). Costs and expenses Cost of services for fiscal 2024 decreased 1%, or $0.6 billion, to $52.5 billion, primarily due to lower non-sports programming and production costs, partially offset by higher sports programming and production costs and the impact of inflation and increased volumes at our parks and experiences businesses. Costs of services reflected an approximate 1 percentage point decrease due to a favorable Foreign Exchange Impact. Depreciation and amortization decreased 7%, or $0.4 billion, to $5.0 billion due to lower depreciation at our domestic parks and resorts and lower TFCF and Hulu acquisition amortization. Restructuring and Impairment Charges (1) In the current year, goodwill impairments related to our general entertainment linear networks. In the prior year, goodwill impairments related to our general entertainment and international sports linear networks. (2) In the current and prior years, content impairments related to strategic changes in our approach to content curation. Other Income (expense), net In fiscal 2023, the Company recognized a gain of $ 169 million on its investment in DraftKings, Inc. (DraftKings), which was sold in fiscal 2023. Interest Expense, net The increase in interest expense was due to higher average rates, partially offset by lower average debt balances. The increase in interest income, investment income and other was driven by a larger benefit from pension and postretirement benefit costs, other than service cost, and investments gains in the current year compared to losses in the prior year, partially offset by the impact of lower cash and cash equivalent balances. Equity in the Income of Investees Equity in the income of investees decreased $207 million to $ 575 million in the current year due to lower income from A+E. 33 Effective Income Tax Rate The decrease in the effective income tax rate in the current year compared to the prior year was due to the recognition of a $418 million benefit in the current year related to prior years’ tax matters (Income Tax Reserve Adjustments) and a lower foreign effective tax rate. These decreases were partially offset by higher non-tax deductible impairments in the current year compared to the prior year. We recognized $2.9 billion of impairments in the current year and $0.7 billion of impairments in the prior year that are not tax deductible. Noncontrolling Interests The decrease in net income attributable to noncontrolling interests reflected the comparison to the accretion of NBCU’s interest in Hulu and Major League Baseball’s interest in BAMTech LLC as well as lower results at our National Geographic business. These decreases were partially offset by improved results at Hong Kong Disneyland Resort. We had accreted to the redemption value for BAMTech LLC by November 2022 and to the guaranteed floor payment for Hulu by December 2023. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests is determined on income after royalties and management fees, financing costs and income taxes, as applicable. Certain Items Impacting Results in the Year Results for fiscal 2024 were impacted by the following: • Restructuring and impairment charges of $3,595 million • TFCF and Hulu acquisition amortization of $1,677 million • Other expense of $65 million related to a legal ruling • Income Tax Reserve Adjustments of $418 million Results for fiscal 2023 were impacted by the following: • Restructuring and impairment charges of $3,892 million • TFCF and Hulu acquisition amortization of $1,998 million • Other income, net of $96 million, primarily due to the DraftKings gain ($169 million), partially offset by a charge related to a legal ruling ($101 million) 34 A summary of the impact of these items on EPS is as follows: (1) Tax benefit (expense) is determined using the tax rate applicable to the individual item. (2) EPS is net of noncontrolling interest, where applicable. Total may not equal the sum of the column due to rounding. (3) Includes amortization of intangibles related to TFCF equity investees. (4) Restructuring and impairment charges in the prior year include the impact of a content license agreement termination with A+E, which generated a gain at A+E. The Company’s 50% interest in this gain was $56 million (A+E gain) and is included in Restructuring and impairment charges in this table. BUSINESS SEGMENT RESULTS The Company evaluates the performance of its operating segments based on segment revenue and segment operating income. Below is a discussion of the major revenue and expense categories for our business segments. Costs and expenses for each segment consist of operating expenses, selling, general, administrative and other costs, and depreciation and amortization. Selling, general, administrative and other costs include third-party and internal marketing expenses. Entertainment The Entertainment segment generates revenue from film, episodic and other content that is produced and distributed across three significant lines of business: • Linear Networks, which primarily generates revenue from affiliate fees and advertising • Direct-to-Consumer, which primarily generates revenue from subscription fees and advertising • Content Sales/Licensing, which primarily generates revenue from the sale of film and episodic content in the TV/VOD and home entertainment markets, distribution of films in the theatrical market, licensing of our music rights, sales of tickets to stage play performances and licensing of our IP for use in stage plays. Revenues also include an intersegment allocation of revenues from the Experiences segment, which is meant to reflect royalties on consumer products merchandise licensing revenues generated on IP created by the Entertainment segment. Operating expenses at the Entertainment segment primarily consist of programming and production costs, technology support costs, operating labor and distribution costs. Programming and production costs include the following: • Amortization of capitalized production costs and licensed programming rights • Subscriber-based fees for programming the Hulu Live service, including fees paid by Hulu to the Sports segment and other Entertainment segment businesses for the right to air their linear networks on Hulu Live • Production costs related to live programming (primarily news) • Participations and residual expenses • Fees paid to the Sports segment to program ESPN on ABC and certain sports content on Disney+ Amortization of capitalized production costs and licensed programming rights is generally allocated across Entertainment’s businesses based on the estimated relative value of the distribution windows. The initial costs of marketing 35 campaigns are generally recognized in the business of initial exploitation. Certain other costs, such as technology, shared services and certain labor related costs, are allocated based on metrics designed to correlate with consumption. Sports The Sports segment primarily generates revenue from affiliate fees, advertising, subscription fees, pay-per-view fees and sub-licensing of sports rights. Operating expenses consist primarily of programming and production costs, technology support costs, operating labor and distribution costs. Programming and production costs include amortization of licensed sports rights and production costs related to live sports and other sports-related programming. Experiences The Experiences segment primarily generates revenue from the sale of admissions to theme parks, the sale of food, beverage and merchandise at our theme parks and resorts, charges for room nights at hotels, sales of cruise vacations, sales and rentals of vacation club properties, royalties from licensing our IP for use on consumer goods and the sale of branded merchandise. Revenues are also generated from sponsorships and co-branding opportunities, real estate rent and sales, and royalties from Tokyo Disney Resort. Significant expenses include operating labor, infrastructure costs, costs of goods sold and distribution costs, depreciation and other operating expenses. Infrastructure costs include technology support costs, repairs and maintenance, utilities and fuel, property taxes, retail occupancy costs, insurance and transportation. Other operating expenses include costs for such items as supplies, commissions and entertainment offerings. Eliminations The following transactions are recognized in segment revenues and eliminated in total Company revenue: • Fees paid by Hulu to ESPN and the Entertainment linear networks business for the right to air their networks on Hulu Live • Fees paid by ABC Network and Disney+ to ESPN to program ESPN on ABC and certain sports content on Disney+, respectively BUSINESS SEGMENT RESULTS - 2024 vs. 2023 The following table presents revenues from our operating segments: The following table presents income from our operating segments and other components of income from continuing operations before income taxes: (1) Restructuring and impairment charges in the prior year i nclude the A+E gain. 36 Entertainment Revenue and operating results for the Entertainment segment are as follows: Revenues The increase in Entertainment revenues was due to subscription revenue growth, partially offset by decreases in theatrical distribution, affiliate and TV/VOD distribution revenues. Operating income The increase in Entertainment operating income was due to improved results at Direct-to-Consumer and, to a lesser extent, Content Sales/Licensing and Other, partially offset by a decrease at Linear Networks. Linear Networks Operating results for Linear Networks are as follows: Revenues - Affiliate fees The decrease in domestic affiliate revenue was due to a decline of 11% from fewer subscribers, including the impact of the non-renewal of carriage of certain networks by an affiliate, partially offset by an increase of 6% from higher effective rates. Lower international affiliate revenue was attributable to decreases of 8% from fewer subscribers driven by channel closures, 3% from lower effective rates and 3% from an unfavorable Foreign Exchange Impact. 37 Revenues - Advertising The decrease in domestic advertising revenue was due to a decrease of 14% from fewer impressions and 2% from lower rates. The decrease in impressions was due to lower average viewership. Lower rates were driven by a decrease in political advertising at the owned television stations. International advertising revenue decreased modestly compared to the prior year as decreases of 3% from an unfavorable Foreign Exchange Impact and 3% from fewer impressions were partially offset by an increase of 4% from higher rates. Operating Expenses The decrease in domestic programming and production costs was due to a lower average cost mix of programming, including fewer hours of scripted programming, which reflected the impact of production delays as a result of guild strikes in the prior year. International programming and production costs were comparable to the prior year as the impact of channel closures and a favorable Foreign Exchange Impact were largely offset by inflation. The decrease in other operating expenses was due to lower technology and distribution costs including the impact of international channel closures. Equity in the Income of Investees Income from equity investees decreased $151 million, to $539 million from $690 million, due to lower income from A+E attributable to decreases in advertising and affiliate revenue. Operating Income from Linear Networks Operating income decreased 16%, to $3,452 million from $4,119 million due to decreases at our domestic and international businesses and lower income from equity investees. Supplemental revenue and operating income The following table provides supplemental revenue and operating income detail for Linear Networks: 38 Direct-to-Consumer Operating results for Direct-to-Consumer are as follows: Revenues - Subscription fees Growth in subscription fees reflected increases of 10% attributable to higher effective rates due to increases in retail pricing and 6% from subscriber growth, partially offset by a decrease of 2% from an unfavorable Foreign Exchange Impact. Revenues - Advertising Higher advertising revenue reflected an increase of 26% from higher impressions, partially offset by a decrease of 12% from lower rates. The increase in impressions was due to Disney+ and Disney+ Hotstar growth, in part reflecting the launches of the ad-supported Disney+ service domestically in December 2022 and internationally starting in November 2023 and airing more cricket programming on Disney+ Hotstar. There were two significant International Cricket Council (ICC) tournaments in the current year compared to one in the prior year. Revenues - Other The increase in other revenue was due to a favorable Foreign Exchange Impact. Key Metrics In addition to revenue, costs and operating income, management uses the following key metrics (1) to analyze trends and evaluate the overall performance of Disney+, Disney+ Hotstar and Hulu, and we believe these metrics are useful to investors in analyzing the business: Paid subscribers at: 39 Average Monthly Revenue Per Paid Subscriber for the fiscal year ended: (1) See discussion on page —DTC Product Descriptions, Key Definitions and Supplemental Information (2) Total may not equal the sum of the column due to rounding. Domestic Disney+ average monthly revenue per paid subscriber increased from $6.97 to $7.89 due to higher retail pricing, partially offset by a higher mix of subscribers to wholesale offerings. International Disney+ (excluding Disney+ Hotstar) average monthly revenue per paid subscriber increased from $5.93 to $6.60 due to increases in retail pricing, partially offset by a higher mix of subscribers to ad-supported and promotional offerings and an unfavorable Foreign Exchange Impact. Disney+ Hotstar average monthly revenue per paid subscriber increased from $0.66 to $0.96 due to higher retail pricing and higher advertising revenue, partially offset by a higher mix of subscribers in lower-priced markets. Hulu SVOD Only average monthly revenue per paid subscriber increased from $12.17 to $12.35 due to increases in retail pricing, partially offset by a lower mix of subscribers with premium add-ons and a higher mix of subscribers to multi-product and promotional offerings. Hulu Live TV + SVOD average monthly revenue per paid subscriber increased from $90.52 to $95.12 due to higher retail pricing, partially offset by lower advertising, a lower mix of subscribers with premium add-ons and a higher mix of subscribers to promotional offerings. Operating Expenses Higher programming and production costs at Hulu were due to an increase in subscriber-based fees for programming the Hulu Live TV service primarily attributable to rate increases. The decrease in programming and production costs at Disney+ and other was attributable to lower costs for non-sports content available on Disney+, partially offset by higher costs for cricket programming at Disney+ Hotstar. The increase in cricket programming costs reflected two significant ICC tournaments in the current year compared to one in the prior year. Other operating expenses decreased due to lower distribution costs. Selling, general, administrative and other Selling, general, administrative and other costs increased $406 million, to $4,574 million from $4,168 million, primarily attributable to increases in marketing and labor costs. Operating Income (Loss) from Direct-to-Consumer Operating results from Direct-to-Consumer increased $2,639 million, to operating income of $143 million from an operating loss of $2,496 million due to improved results at Disney+. 40 Content Sales/Licensing and Other Operating results for Content Sales/Licensing and Other are as follows: Revenues - TV/VOD distribution The decrease in TV/VOD distribution revenue was due to lower sales of episodic and, to a lesser extent, film content. Revenues - Theatrical distribution The decrease in theatrical distribution revenue reflected fewer significant releases in the current year compared to the prior year. The current year included Inside Out 2, Deadpool & Wolverine, Kingdom of the Planet of the Apes, Alien: Romulus, Wish and The Marvels. The prior year included Avatar: The Way of Water, Black Panther: Wakanda Forever, Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 3, The Little Mermaid , Ant-Man and the Wasp: Quantumania , Elemental and Indiana Jones and the Dial of Destiny. Revenues - Home entertainment distribution The decrease in home entertainment distribution revenue was due to lower unit sales. Revenues - Other Other revenue increased primarily due to higher revenue at Lucasfilm’s special effects business due to higher rates and more projects. Operating expenses The decrease in programming and production costs was due to lower production cost amortization attributable to the decreases in theatrical and TV/VOD distribution revenues, partially offset by higher film cost impairments. Lower distribution costs and cost of goods sold were driven by decreases in theatrical, home entertainment and TV/VOD distribution costs, partially offset by an increase at Lucasfilm’s special effects business due to more projects. Selling, general, administrative and other Selling, general, administrative and other costs decreased $487 million, to $2,108 million from $2,595 million, driven by lower theatrical marketing costs reflecting fewer significant releases in the current year. Operating Income (Loss) from Content Sales/Licensing and Other Operating results from Content Sales/Licensing and Other increased $507 million, to income of $328 million from a loss of $179 million due to higher theatrical distribution results. 41 Items Excluded from Segment Operating Income Related to Entertainment The following table presents supplemental information for items related to Entertainment that are excluded from segment operating income: (1) Fiscal 2024 includes $1,287 million for goodwill impairments related to our general entertainment linear networks, $187 million for content impairments, a $158 million impairment of an equity investment and $38 million of severance. Fiscal 2023 includes $2,521 million for content impairments (net of the A+E gain), $425 million for a goodwill impairment related to our general entertainment linear networks, $248 million of severance, a $141 million impairment of an equity investment and $96 million of charges primarily related to exiting our businesses in Russia. (2) In fiscal 2024, amortization of step-up on film and television costs was $271 million and amortization of intangible assets was $1,054 million. In fiscal 2023, amortization of step-up on film and television costs was $439 million and amortization of intangible assets was $1,151 million. Sports Operating results for the Sports segment are as follows: Revenues - Affiliate fees The decrease in domestic ESPN affiliate revenue was due to a decrease of 8% from fewer subscribers, partially offset by an increase of 7% from higher effective rates. International ESPN affiliate revenue was comparable to the prior year, as decreases from an unfavorable Foreign Exchange Impact and fewer subscribers were largely offset by higher effective rates. Lower Star India affiliate revenue was attributable to decreases of 7% from lower effective rates and 4% from fewer subscribers. 42 Revenues - Advertising The increase in domestic ESPN advertising revenue was due to increases of 8% from higher rates and 3% from sponsorship revenue growth, partially offset by a decrease of 2% from lower average viewership. The decrease in international ESPN advertising revenue was due to a decrease of 11% from an unfavorable Foreign Exchange Impact, partially offset by increases of 5% from higher rates and 2% from higher average viewership. Higher Star India advertising revenue was attributable to airing two significant ICC cricket tournaments in the current year compared to one in the prior year. Revenues - Subscription fees Subscription fees increased $133 million, to $1,650 million from $1,517 million, due to higher rates attributable to increases in retail pricing. Revenues - Other Other revenue increased $79 million, to $1,163 million from $1,084 million, due to higher fees received from the Entertainment segment to program sports and an increase in revenue from licensing the ESPN brand, partially offset by an unfavorable Foreign Exchange Impact. Key metrics In addition to revenue, costs and operating income, management uses the following key metrics (1) to analyze trends and evaluate the overall performance of ESPN+, and we believe these metrics are useful to investors in analyzing the business: ESPN+ average monthly revenue per paid subscriber increased from $5.49 to $6.14 due to increases in retail pricing and higher advertising revenue. (1) See discussion on page —DTC Product Descriptions, Key Definitions and Supplemental Information Operating expenses Programming and production costs at domestic ESPN increased in the current year compared to the prior year due to contractual rate increases and higher production costs. 43 The increase in international ESPN programming and production costs was due to new soccer rights. Higher Star India programming and production costs were attributable to an increase in cricket programming costs due to airing two significant ICC tournaments in the current year compared to one in the prior year. This increase was partially offset by the comparison to costs for Board of Control for Cricket in India cricket programming in the prior year, which rights we did not renew for the current fiscal year. Depreciation and amortization Depreciation and amortization decreased $34 million, to $39 million from $73 million primarily due to technology assets that were fully depreciated in the prior year. Operating Income from Sports Operating income decreased $59 million, to $2,406 million from $2,465 million due to higher operating losses at Star India and, to a lesser extent, international ESPN, partially offset by an increase at domestic ESPN. Supplemental revenue and operating income The following table provides supplemental revenue and operating income (loss) detail for the Sports segment: Items Excluded from Segment Operating Income Related to Sports The following table presents supplemental information for items related to Sports that are excluded from segment operating income: (1) Represents amortization of intangible assets. (2) Fiscal 2023 includes $296 million for a goodwill impairment and $50 million for severance. 44 Experiences Operating results for the Experiences segment are as follows: Revenues - Theme park admissions The increase in theme park admissions revenue was due to increases of 5% from higher average per capita ticket revenue and 2% from attendance growth. Revenues - Resorts and vacations Growth in resorts and vacations revenue was primarily attributable to increases of 3% from higher average ticket prices for cruise line sailings, 1% from an increase in average daily hotel room rates and 1% from higher occupied hotel room nights, partially offset by a decrease of 1% from lower unit sales at Disney Vacation Club. Revenues - Parks & Experiences merchandise, food and beverage Parks & Experiences merchandise, food and beverage revenue growth was due to increases of 2% from higher volumes and 2% from higher average guest spending. Revenues - Merchandise licensing and retail Lower merchandise licensing and retail revenue was due to decreases of 1% from an unfavorable Foreign Exchange Impact and 1% from retail, partially offset by an increase of 1% from merchandise licensing. Lower retail revenue was due to a decrease in online sales. Growth in licensing revenue was due to higher royalties from merchandise sales, partially offset by lower minimum guarantee shortfall recognition. Revenues - Parks licensing and other The increase in parks licensing and other revenue was attributable to higher sponsorship revenues, a favorable Foreign Exchange Impact and higher royalties from Tokyo Disney Resort. 45 Key Metrics In addition to revenue, costs and operating income, management uses the following key metrics to analyze trends and evaluate the overall performance of our theme parks and resorts, and we believe these metrics are useful to investors in analyzing the business : (1) Per capita guest spending growth rate and per room guest spending growth rate exclude the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. (2) Attendance is used to analyze volume trends at our theme parks and is based on the number of unique daily entries, i.e. a person visiting multiple theme parks in a single day is counted only once. Our attendance count includes complimentary entries but excludes entries by children under the age of three. (3) Per capita guest spending is used to analyze guest spending trends and is defined as total revenue from ticket sales and sales of food, beverage and merchandise in our theme parks, divided by total theme park attendance. (4) Occupancy is used to analyze the usage of available capacity at hotels and is defined as the number of room nights occupied by guests as a percentage of available hotel room nights. (5) Available hotel room nights are defined as the total number of room nights that are available at our hotels and at DVC properties located at our theme parks and resorts that are not utilized by DVC members. Available hotel room nights include rooms temporarily taken out of service. (6) Per room guest spending is used to analyze guest spending at our hotels and is defined as total revenue from room rentals and sales of food, beverage and merchandise at our hotels, divided by total occupied hotel room nights. In the third quarter of the prior fiscal year, the Company revised its method of allocating revenue on the sales of Disneyland Paris vacation packages between hotel room revenue and admissions revenue. The new method resulted in a decrease in the percentage of revenue allocated to hotel rooms. If we had applied the new method in the first six months of the prior year, the impact would have been a decrease of approximatel y $30 million i n the prior year. Operating expenses The increase in operating labor was primarily due to inflation and higher volumes. Higher infrastructure costs were primarily attributable to higher technology spending and an increase in operations support costs. The increase in other operating expenses was primarily due to an unfavorable Foreign Exchange Impact, higher volumes and increased operations support costs. Selling, general, administrative and other Selling, general, administrative and other costs increased $269 million from $3,675 million to $3,944 million, driven by inflation and increased marketing costs for new guest offerings, partially offset by the comparison to a loss in the prior year on the disposal of our ownership interest in Villages Nature. 46 Depreciation and amortization Depreciation and amortization decreased $210 million from $2,789 million to $2,579 million, due to the comparison to depreciation in the prior year related to the closure of Star Wars: Galactic Starcruiser. Operating Income from Experiences Segment operating income increased $318 million, from $8,954 million to $9,272 million primarily due to growth at international parks and experiences. Supplemental revenue and operating income The following table presents supplemental revenue and operating income detail for the Experiences segment: Items Excluded from Segment Operating Income Related to Experiences The following table presents supplemental information for items related to Experiences that are excluded from segment operating income: (1) Charges for the current year were due to an impairment of assets at our retail business. CORPORATE AND UNALLOCATED SHARED EXPENSES Corporate and unallocated shared expenses are as follows: The increase in corporate and unallocated shared expenses was primarily due to higher labor costs, increases in professional services and costs related to our proxy solicitation. 47 LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES The change in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash is as follows: Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities increased 42% or $4.1 billion to $14.0 billion in the current year compared to $9.9 billion in the prior year. The increase was driven by lower film and television production spending and the timing of payments for sports rights. The increase also reflected collateral receipts related to our hedging program in the current year compared to collateral payments in the prior year, higher operating cash flows at Entertainment and the comparison to a payment in the prior year related to the termination of content licenses in fiscal 2022. The increase in operating cash flows at Entertainment was driven by lower cash disbursements due to a decrease in operating expenses. These increases were partially offset by higher cash tax payments in the current year compared to the prior year. Fiscal 2023 U.S. federal and California state tax payments were deferred and paid in fiscal 2024 pursuant to relief provided by the Internal Revenue Service and California State Board of Equalization as a result of 2023 winter storms in California. In addition, a portion of fiscal 2024 U.S. federal and Florida state taxes was paid in fiscal 2024 and the remainder has been deferred to fiscal 2025 pursuant to relief provided by the Internal Revenue Service and Florida Department of Revenue as a result of 2024 hurricanes in Florida. Depreciation expense is as follows: Amortization of intangible assets is as follows: Produced and licensed content costs The Entertainment and Sports segments incur costs to produce and license film, episodic, sports and other content. Production costs include spend on content internally produced at our studios such as live-action and animated films, episodic series, specials, shorts and theatrical stage plays. Production costs also include original content commissioned from third-party studios. Programming costs include content rights licensed from third parties for use on the Company’s sports and general entertainment networks and DTC streaming services. Programming assets are generally recorded when the programming becomes available to us with a corresponding increase in programming liabilities. 48 The Company’s production and programming activity for fiscal 2024 and 2023 are as follows: The Company currently expects its fiscal 2025 spend on produced and licensed content to be approximately $24 billion including sports rights but excluding Star India.  See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the Company’s contractual commitments to acquire sports and broadcast programming. Commitments and guarantees The Company has various commitments and guarantees, such as long-term leases, purchase commitments and other executory contracts, that are disclosed in the footnotes to the financial statements. See Notes 14 and 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding these commitments. Legal and Tax Matters As disclosed in Notes 9 and 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company has exposure for certain tax and legal matters. Investing Activities Investing activities, which consist principally of investments in parks, resorts and other property and acquisition and divestiture activity, for fiscal 2024 and 2023 are as follows: 49 Investments in Parks, Resorts and Other Property Capital expenditures at Entertainment primarily reflect investments in technology and in facilities and equipment for expanding and upgrading broadcast centers, production facilities and television station facilities. Capital expenditures at Experiences are principally for theme park and resort expansion, new attractions, cruise ships, capital improvements and systems infrastructure. The increase in capital expenditures in fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023 was due to higher spending on cruise ship fleet expansion, theme park and resort expansion and new attractions. Capital expenditures at Corporate primarily reflect investments in facilities, information technology infrastructure and equipment. The decrease in fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023 was due to lower spending on facilities. The Company currently expects its fiscal 2025 capital expenditures to total approximately $8 billion compared to fiscal 2024 capital expenditures of $5 billion. The projected increase in capital expenditures is primarily due to higher spending at Experiences, attributable to continued investment in cruise ship fleet expansion and new guest offerings at our theme parks. Other Investing Activities Cash used in other investing activities was $1.5 billion in fiscal 2024 reflecting an investment in Epic Games, Inc. Cash provided by other investing activities was $328 million for fiscal 2023 reflecting proceeds from the sale of investments. Financing Activities Financing activities for fiscal 2024 and 2023 are as follows: (1) Activities related to noncontrolling and redeemable noncontrolling interests in the current year were due to an $8.6  billion payment for Hulu’s redeemable noncontrolling interest and $0.5 billion of dividend payments to noncontrolling interest holders. Activities in the prior year were due to a $0.9 billion payment for BAMTech LLC’s redeemable noncontrolling interest and $0.5 billion of dividend payments to noncontrolling interest holders, partially offset by a $0.7 billion contribution from Hearst to acquire a 20% interest in our DTC sports business. (2) Primarily consists of equity award activity. Borrowings activities and other During the year ended September 28, 2024, the Company’s borrowing activity was as follows: (1) Borrowings and reductions of borrowings are reported net. (2) The other activity is primarily due to the amortization of purchase accounting adjustments and debt issuance fees. (3) See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding commitments to fund the Asia Theme Parks. (4) The other activity is due to market value adjustments for debt with qualifying hedges. See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a summary of the Company’s borrowing activities in fiscal 2024 and information regarding the Company’s bank facilities. The Company may use cash balances, operating cash flows, 50 commercial paper borrowings up to the amount of its unused $12.25 billion bank facilities and incremental term debt issuances to retire or refinance other borrowings before or as they come due. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a summary of dividends and share repurchases in fiscal 2024. There were no dividends paid or share repurchases in fiscal 2023. The Company is targeting a total of $3 billion in share repurchases in fiscal 2025. The Company may be required to pay an incremental amount for Hulu depending on a final determination of Hulu’s fair value. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the transactions with noncontrolling interest holders. The Company’s operating cash flow and access to the capital markets can be impacted by factors outside of its control. We believe that the Company’s financial condition is strong and that its cash balances, other liquid assets, operating cash flows, access to debt and equity capital markets and borrowing capacity under current bank facilities, taken together, provide adequate resources to fund ongoing operating requirements, contractual obligations, upcoming debt maturities as well as future capital expenditures related to the expansion of existing businesses and development of new projects. In addition, the Company could undertake other measures to ensure sufficient liquidity, such as raising additional financing, reducing or not declaring future dividends; reducing or stopping share repurchases; reducing capital spending; reducing film and episodic content investments; or implementing further cost-saving initiatives. The Company’s borrowing costs can also be impacted by short- and long-term debt ratings assigned by nationally recognized rating agencies, which are based, in significant part, on the Company’s performance as measured by certain credit metrics such as leverage and interest coverage ratios. As of September 28, 2024, Moody’s Ratings’ long- and short-term debt ratings for the Company were A2 and P-1 (Stable), respectively, S&P Global Ratings’ long- and short-term debt ratings for the Company were A- and A-2 (Positive), respectively, and Fitch Ratings’ long- and short-term debt ratings for the Company were A- and F2 (Stable), respectively. The Company’s bank facilities contain only one financial covenant, relating to interest coverage of three times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, including both intangible amortization and amortization of our film and television production and programming costs. On September 28, 2024, the Company met this covenant by a significant margin. The Company’s bank facilities also specifically exclude certain entities, including the Asia Theme Parks, from any representations, covenants or events of default. DEVELOPMENTS AND TRENDS Star India Transaction The Company and RIL plan to close a transaction on or about November 14, 2024, which will form a joint venture that combines our Star-branded and other general entertainment and sports television channels and Disney+ Hotstar service in India (Star India) and certain media and entertainment businesses of RIL (see Note 4 of the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information). The Company will have a 37% interest in the joint venture. The Company has consolidated, and will continue to consolidate, the income statement and cash flow activities of Star India through the closing date, at which time the Company will recognize on its balance sheet the 37% investment at fair value. In addition, the Company will begin recognizing its proportional share of the joint venture’s results in “Equity in the income of investees, net” in the Consolidated Statement of Income. The equity earnings of the joint venture will not be reported in our segments’ operating results. Trends To drive growth at our sports and entertainment businesses, we are, among other things, making strategic investments in our DTC offerings. Although there can be no assurances these investments will be successful, we expect that they will lead to growth in subscription fees and advertising revenues that will more than offset impacts on affiliate fees and advertising revenue from declines in linear network subscribers and the related decrease in average viewership, which we expect will continue. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES We believe that the application of the following accounting policies, which are important to our financial position and results of operations, require significant judgments and estimates on the part of management. For a summary of our significant accounting policies, including the accounting policies discussed below, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Produced and Acquired/Licensed Content Costs We amortize and test for impairment capitalized film and television production costs based on whether the content is predominantly monetized individually or as a group. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. Production costs that are classified as individual are amortized based upon the ratio of the current period’s revenues to the estimated remaining total revenues (Ultimate Revenues). 51 With respect to produced films intended for theatrical release, the most sensitive factor affecting our estimate of Ultimate Revenues is theatrical performance. Revenues derived from other markets subsequent to the theatrical release are generally highly correlated with theatrical performance. Theatrical performance varies primarily based upon the public interest and demand for a particular film, the popularity of competing films at the time of release and the level of marketing effort. Upon a film’s release and determination of the theatrical performance, the Company’s estimates of revenues from succeeding windows and markets, which may include imputed license fees for content that is used on our DTC streaming services, are revised based on historical relationships and an analysis of current market trends. With respect to capitalized television production costs that are classified as individual, the most sensitive factor affecting estimates of Ultimate Revenues is program ratings of the content on our licensees’ platforms. Program ratings, which are an indication of market acceptance, directly affect the program’s ability to generate advertising and subscriber revenues and are correlated with the license fees we can charge for the content in subsequent windows and for subsequent seasons. Ultimate Revenues are reassessed each reporting period and the impact of any changes on amortization of production cost is accounted for as if the change occurred at the beginning of the current fiscal year. If our estimate of Ultimate Revenues decreases, amortization of costs may be accelerated or result in an impairment. Conversely, if our estimate of Ultimate Revenues increases, cost amortization may be slowed. Production costs classified as individual are tested for impairment at the individual title level by comparing that title’s unamortized costs to the present value of discounted cash flows directly attributable to the title. To the extent the title’s unamortized costs exceed the present value of discounted cash flows, an impairment charge is recorded for the excess. Produced content costs that are part of a group and acquired/licensed content costs are amortized based on projected usage, typically resulting in an accelerated or straight-line amortization pattern. The determination of projected usage requires judgment and is reviewed on a regular basis for changes. Adjustments to projected usage are applied prospectively in the period of the change. Historical viewing patterns are the most significant input into determining the projected usage, and significant judgment is required in using historical viewing patterns to derive projected usage. If projected usage changes we may need to accelerate or slow the recognition of amortization expense. Cost of content that is predominantly monetized as a group is tested for impairment by comparing the present value of the discounted cash flows of the group to the aggregate unamortized costs of the group. The group is established by identifying the lowest level for which cash flows are independent of the cash flows of other produced and licensed content. If the unamortized costs exceed the present value of discounted cash flows, an impairment charge is recorded for the excess and allocated to individual titles based on the relative carrying value of each title in the group. If there are no plans to continue to use an individual film or television program that is part of a group, the unamortized cost of the individual title is written down to its estimated fair value. Licensed content is included as part of the group within which it is monetized for purposes of impairment testing. The amortization of multi-year sports rights is based on projections of revenues for each season relative to projections of total revenues over the contract period (estimated relative value). Projected revenues include advertising revenue and an allocation of affiliate revenue. If the annual contractual payments related to each season approximate each season’s estimated relative value, we expense the related contractual payments during the applicable season. If estimated relative values by year were to change significantly, amortization of our sports rights costs may be accelerated or slowed. Revenue Recognition The Company has revenue recognition policies for its various operating segments that are appropriate to the circumstances of each business. Refer to Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for our revenue recognition policies. Pension and Postretirement Medical Plan Actuarial Assumptions The Company’s pension and postretirement medical benefit obligations and related costs are calculated using a number of actuarial assumptions. Two critical assumptions, the discount rate and the expected return on plan assets, are important elements of expense and/or liability measurement, which we evaluate annually. Other assumptions include the healthcare cost trend rate and employee demographic factors such as retirement patterns, mortality, turnover and rate of compensation increase. The discount rate enables us to state expected future cash payments for benefits as a present value on the measurement date. A lower discount rate increases the present value of benefit obligations and increases pension and postretirement medical expense. The guideline for setting this rate is a high-quality long-term corporate bond rate. We decreased our discount rate to 5.06 % at the end of fiscal 2024 from 5.94 % at the end of fiscal 2023 to reflect market interest rate conditions at our fiscal 2024 year-end measurement date. The Company’s discount rate was determined by considering yield curves constructed of a large population of high-quality corporate bonds and reflects the matching of the plans’ liability cash flows to the yield curves. A one percentage point decrease in the assumed discount rate would increase total benefit expense for fiscal 2025 by approximately $0.2 billion and would increase the projected benefit obligation at September 28, 2024 by approximately $2.4 billion. A one 52 percentage point increase in the assumed discount rate would decrease total benefit expense and the projected benefit obligation by approximately $0.2 billion and $2.1 billion, respectively. To determine the expected long-term rate of return on the plan assets, we consider the current and expected asset allocation, as well as historical and expected returns on each plan asset class. Our expected return on plan assets is 7.25%. A lower expected rate of return on plan assets will increase pension and postretirement medical expense. A one percentage point change in the long-term asset return assumption would impact fiscal 2025 annual expense by approximately $ 168 million. Goodwill, Other Intangible Assets, Long-Lived Assets and Investments The Company is required to test goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis and if current events or circumstances require, on an interim basis. The Company performs its annual test of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment in its fiscal fourth quarter. Goodwill is allocated to various reporting units, which are an operating segment or one level below the operating segment. To test goodwill for impairment, the Company first performs a qualitative assessment to determine if it is more likely than not that the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value. If it is, a quantitative assessment is required. Alternatively, the Company may bypass the qualitative assessment and perform a quantitative impairment test. The qualitative assessment requires the consideration of factors such as recent market transactions, macroeconomic conditions and changes in projected future cash flows of the reporting unit. The quantitative assessment compares the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying amount, and to the extent the carrying amount exceeds the fair value, an impairment of goodwill is recognized for the excess up to the amount of goodwill allocated to the reporting unit. The impairment test for goodwill requires judgment related to the identification of reporting units, determining whether reporting units should be aggregated, the assignment of assets and liabilities including goodwill to reporting units, and the determination of fair value of the reporting units. In fiscal 2024, we determined that our entertainment businesses, including DTC services, linear networks, and content sales/licensing, should be aggregated into a single reporting unit due to their interdependencies, including shared operating costs such as content, marketing, and technology, the similarity of products and services delivered, customers served and distribution channels used, and projected long term financial performance (e.g., operating margins). For our annual impairment test, we bypassed the qualitative test and performed a quantitative assessment of goodwill for impairment. To determine the fair value of our reporting units, we generally use a present value technique (discounted cash flows) corroborated by market multiples when available and as appropriate. The discounted cash flow analyses are sensitive to our estimated projected future cash flows as well as the discount rates used to calculate their present value. Our future cash flows are based on internal forecasts for each reporting unit, which consider projected inflation and other economic indicators, as well as industry growth projections. Discount rates are determined based on the inherent risks of the underlying operations. Significant judgments and assumptions in the discounted cash flow model used to determine fair value relate to future revenues and certain operating expenses, operating margins, terminal growth rates and discount rates. We believe our estimates are consistent with how a marketplace participant would value our businesses. Changes to these assumptions and shifts in market trends or macroeconomic events could impact test results in the future. As discussed in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, in the second and fourth quarters of fiscal 2024, the Company recorded non-cash goodwill impairment charges of $0.7 billion and $0.6 billion, respectively, related to our entertainment linear networks reporting unit prior to aggregating all of our entertainment reporting units into a single reporting unit in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2024. The carrying amount of the aggregated entertainment reporting unit goodwill after these impairments is approximately $51 billion. After the impairments, the fair value of the entertainment reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount by less than 10%. An approximate 40 basis point increase in the discount rate or an approximate 6% reduction in projected annual cash flows used to determine the fair value of the entertainment reporting unit would effectively eliminate the excess fair value over carrying amount. To test other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment, the Company first performs a qualitative assessment to determine if it is more likely than not that the carrying amount of each of its indefinite-lived intangible assets exceeds its fair value. If it is, a quantitative assessment is required. Alternatively, the Company may bypass the qualitative assessment and perform a quantitative impairment test. 53 The qualitative assessment requires the consideration of factors such as recent market transactions, macroeconomic conditions and changes in projected future cash flows. The quantitative assessment compares the fair value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset to its carrying amount. If the carrying amount of an indefinite-lived intangible asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized for the excess. Fair values of indefinite-lived intangible assets are determined based on discounted cash flows or appraised values, as appropriate. The Company tests long-lived assets, including amortizable intangible assets, for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances (triggering events) indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Once a triggering event has occurred, the impairment test employed is based on whether the Company’s intent is to hold the asset for continued use or to hold the asset for sale. The impairment test for assets held for use requires a comparison of the estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated over the useful life of the significant assets of an asset group to the carrying amount of the asset group. An asset group is generally established by identifying the lowest level of cash flows generated by a group of assets that are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and could include assets used across multiple businesses. If the carrying amount of an asset group exceeds the estimated undiscounted future cash flows, an impairment would be measured as the difference between the fair value of the asset group and the carrying amount of the asset group. For assets held for sale, to the extent the carrying amount is greater than the asset’s fair value less costs to sell, an impairment loss is recognized for the difference. Determining whether a long-lived asset is impaired requires various estimates and assumptions, including whether a triggering event has occurred, the identification of asset groups, estimates of future cash flows and the discount rate used to determine fair values. As discussed in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company recorded $1.5 billion of non-cash impairment charges related to the Star India Transaction in fiscal 2024 to reflect Star India at its estimated fair value less costs to sell. The Company has investments in equity securities. For equity securities that do not have a readily determinable fair value, we consider forecasted financial performance of the investee companies, as well as volatility inherent in the external markets for these investments. If these forecasts are not met, impairment charges may be recorded. The Company tested its indefinite-lived intangible assets, long-lived assets and investments for impairment and recorded non-cash impairment charges of $0.7 billion and $2.3 billion in fiscal 2024 and 2023, respectively. The fiscal 2024 charges related to impairments of retail assets, content assets, and equity investments. The fiscal 2023 charges primarily related to content impairments resulting from a strategic change in our approach to content curation. See Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Allowance for Credit Losses We evaluate our allowance for credit losses and estimate collectability of accounts receivable based on historical bad debt experience, our assessment of the financial condition of individual companies with which we do business, current market conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts of future economic conditions. In times of economic turmoil our estimates and judgments with respect to the collectability of our receivables are subject to greater uncertainty than in more stable periods. If our estimate of uncollectible accounts is too low, costs and expenses may increase in future periods, and if it is too high, costs and expenses may decrease in future periods. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion. Contingencies and Litigation We are currently involved in certain legal proceedings and, as required, have accrued estimates of the probable and estimable losses for the resolution of these proceedings. These estimates are based upon an analysis of potential results, assuming a combination of litigation and settlement strategies and have been developed in consultation with outside counsel as appropriate. From time to time, we are also involved in other contingent matters for which we accrue estimates for a probable and estimable loss. It is possible, however, that future results of operations for any particular quarterly or annual period could be materially affected by changes in our assumptions or the effectiveness of our strategies related to legal proceedings or our assumptions regarding other contingent matters. See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on litigation exposure. Income Tax As a matter of course, the Company is regularly audited by federal, state and foreign tax authorities. From time to time, these audits result in proposed assessments. Our determinations regarding the recognition of income tax benefits are made in consultation with outside tax and legal counsel, where appropriate, and are based upon the technical merits of our tax positions in consideration of applicable tax statutes and related interpretations and precedents and upon the expected outcome of proceedings (or negotiations) with taxing and legal authorities. The tax benefits ultimately realized by the Company may differ from those recognized in our future financial statements based on a number of factors, including the Company’s decision to 54 settle rather than litigate a matter, relevant legal precedent related to similar matters and the Company’s success in supporting its filing positions with taxing authorities. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements. DTC PRODUCT DESCRIPTIONS,  KEY DEFINITIONS AND SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION Product Offerings In the U.S., Disney+, ESPN+ and Hulu SVOD Only are each offered as a standalone service or as part of various multi-product offerings. Hulu Live TV + SVOD includes Disney+ and ESPN+. Disney+ is available in more than 150 countries and territories outside the U.S. and Canada. In India and certain other Southeast Asian countries, the service is branded Disney+ Hotstar. In certain Latin American countries prior to July 2024, we offered Disney+ as well as Star+, a general entertainment SVOD service, which was available on a standalone basis or together with Disney+ (Combo+). At the end of June 2024, we merged these services into a single Disney+ product offering. Depending on the market, our services can be purchased on our websites or through third-party platforms/apps or are available via wholesale arrangements. Paid Subscribers Paid subscribers reflect subscribers for which we recognized subscription revenue. Certain product offerings provide the option for an extra member to be added to an account (extra member add-on). These extra members are not counted as paid subscribers. Subscribers cease to be a paid subscriber as of their effective cancellation date or as a result of a failed payment method. Subscribers to multi-product offerings in the U.S. are counted as a paid subscriber for each of the Company's services included in the multi-product offering and subscribers to Hulu Live TV + SVOD are counted as one paid subscriber for each of the Hulu Live TV + SVOD, Disney+ and ESPN+ services. In Latin America prior to July 2024, if a subscriber had either the standalone Disney+ or Star+ service or subscribed to Combo+, the subscriber was counted as one Disney+ paid subscriber. Subscribers include those who receive an entitlement to a service through wholesale arrangements, including those for which the service is available to each subscriber of an existing content distribution tier. When we aggregate the total number of paid subscribers across our DTC streaming services, we refer to them as paid subscriptions. International Disney+ (excluding Disney+ Hotstar) International Disney+ (excluding Disney+ Hotstar) includes the Disney+ service outside the U.S. and Canada. Average Monthly Revenue Per Paid Subscriber Hulu and ESPN+ average monthly revenue per paid subscriber is calculated based on the average of the monthly average paid subscribers for each month in the period. The monthly average paid subscribers is calculated as the sum of the beginning of the month and end of the month paid subscriber count, divided by two. Disney+ average monthly revenue per paid subscriber is calculated using a daily average of paid subscribers for the period. Revenue includes subscription fees, advertising (excluding revenue earned from selling advertising spots to other Company businesses), premium and feature add-on revenue and extra member add-on revenue but excludes Pay-Per-View revenue. Advertising revenue generated by content on one DTC streaming service that is accessed through another DTC streaming service by subscribers to both streaming services is allocated between both streaming services. The average revenue per paid subscriber is net of discounts on offerings that carry more than one service. Revenue is allocated to each service based on the relative retail or wholesale price of each service on a standalone basis. Hulu Live TV + SVOD revenue is allocated to the SVOD services based on the wholesale price of the Hulu SVOD Only, Disney+ and ESPN+ multi-product offering. In general, wholesale arrangements have a lower average monthly revenue per paid subscriber than subscribers that we acquire directly or through third-party platforms. 55 Supplemental information about paid subscribers (1) : (1) At September 28, 2024, there were 19.7 million and 7.4 million subscribers to multi-product offerings with two and three of the Company’s services, respectively. At September 30, 2023, there were 20.3 million and 2.3 million subscribers to multi-product offerings with two and three of the Company’s services, respectively. (2) Total may not equal the sum of the column due to rounding. (3) Disney+ Hotstar is not included in any of the Company’s multi-product offerings. (4) The services within the Combo+ multi-product offering were merged into a single Disney+ product offering in fiscal 2024. The Combo+ subscribers at September 30, 2023 were 10.8 million. SUPPLEMENTAL GUARANTOR FINANCIAL INFORMATION On March 20, 2019, as part of the acquisition of TFCF, The Walt Disney Company (“TWDC”) became the ultimate parent of TWDC Enterprises 18 Corp. (formerly known as The Walt Disney Company) (“Legacy Disney”). Legacy Disney and TWDC are collectively referred to as “Obligor Group”, and individually, as a “Guarantor”. Concurrent with the close of the TFCF acquisition, $16.8 billion of TFCF’s assumed public debt (which then constituted 96% of such debt) was exchanged for senior notes of TWDC (the “exchange notes”) issued pursuant to an exemption from registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), pursuant to an Indenture, dated as of March 20, 2019, between TWDC, Legacy Disney, as guarantor, and Citibank, N.A., as trustee (the “TWDC Indenture”) and guaranteed by Legacy Disney. On November 26, 2019, $14.0 billion of the outstanding exchange notes were exchanged for new senior notes of TWDC registered under the Securities Act, issued pursuant to the TWDC Indenture and guaranteed by Legacy Disney. In addition, contemporaneously with the closing of the March 20, 2019 exchange offer, TWDC entered into a guarantee of the registered debt securities issued by Legacy Disney under the Indenture dated as of September 24, 2001 between Legacy Disney and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee (the “2001 Trustee”) (as amended by the first supplemental indenture among Legacy Disney, as issuer, TWDC, as guarantor, and the 2001 Trustee, as trustee). Other subsidiaries of the Company do not guarantee the registered debt securities of either TWDC or Legacy Disney (such subsidiaries are referred to as the “non-Guarantors”). The par value and carrying value of total outstanding and guaranteed registered debt securities of the Obligor Group at September 28, 2024 was as follows: The guarantees by TWDC and Legacy Disney are full and unconditional and cover all payment obligations arising under the guaranteed registered debt securities. The guarantees may be released and discharged upon (i) as a general matter, the indebtedness for borrowed money of the consolidated subsidiaries of TWDC in aggregate constituting no more than 10% of all consolidated indebtedness for borrowed money of TWDC and its subsidiaries (subject to certain exclusions), (ii) upon the sale, transfer or disposition of all or substantially all of the equity interests or all or substantially all, or substantially as an entirety, the assets of Legacy Disney to a third party, and (iii) other customary events constituting a discharge of a guarantor’s obligations. In addition, in the case of Legacy Disney’s guarantee of registered debt securities issued by TWDC, Legacy Disney may be released and discharged from its guarantee at any time Legacy Disney is not a borrower, issuer or guarantor under certain material bank facilities or any debt securities. Operations are conducted almost entirely through the Company’s subsidiaries. Accordingly, the Obligor Group’s cash flow and ability to service its debt, including the public debt, are dependent upon the earnings of the Company’s subsidiaries and the distribution of those earnings to the Obligor Group, whether by dividends, loans or otherwise. Holders of the guaranteed registered debt securities have a direct claim only against the Obligor Group. 56 Set forth below are summarized financial information for the Obligor Group on a combined basis after elimination of (i) intercompany transactions and balances between TWDC and Legacy Disney and (ii) equity in the earnings from and investments in any subsidiary that is a non-Guarantor. This summarized financial information has been prepared and presented pursuant to the Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation S-X Rule 13-01, “Financial Disclosures about Guarantors and Issuers of Guaranteed Securities” and is not intended to present the financial position or results of operations of the Obligor Group in accordance with U.S. GAAP.