********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

For an enterprise as large and complex as the Company, a wide range of factors could materially affect future developments and performance. In addition to the factors affecting specific business operations identified in connection with the description of these operations and the financial results of these operations elsewhere in our filings with the SEC, the most significant factors affecting our business include the following: BUSINESS, ECONOMIC, MARKET and OPERATING CONDITION RISKS The adverse impact of COVID-19 on our businesses will continue for an unknown length of time and may continue to impact certain of our key sources of revenue. Since early 2020, the world has been and continues to be impacted by COVID-19 and its variants. COVID-19 and measures to prevent its spread have impacted our segments in a number of ways, most significantly at DPEP where our theme parks and resorts were closed and cruise ship sailings and guided tours were suspended. In addition, at DMED we delayed, or in some cases, shortened or canceled theatrical releases and experienced disruptions in the production and availability of content. Collectively, our impacted businesses have historically been the source of the majority of our revenue. Operations have resumed at various points since May 2020, with certain theme parks and resort operations and film and television productions resuming by the end of fiscal 2020 and throughout 2021. Although operations resumed, many of our businesses continue to experience impacts from COVID-19, such as incremental health and safety measures and related increased expenses, capacity restrictions and closures (including at some of our international parks and in theaters in certain markets), and disruptions of content production activities. COVID-19 impacts and future health outbreaks and pandemics could hasten the erosion of historical sources of revenue at our Linear Networks businesses and change consumer preferences. For example, COVID-19 impacts have changed, and may continue to change, consumer behavior and consumption patterns, such as theater-going to watch movies. Some industries in which our customers operate, such as theatrical distribution, retail and travel, have experienced, and could continue to experience, contraction and financial distress, which could impact the profitability of our businesses going forward. Our mitigation efforts in response to the impacts of COVID-19 on our businesses have had, or may continue to have, negative impacts. For example, in response to COVID-19 impacts, we incurred significant additional indebtedness and delayed or suspended certain projects in which we have invested, particularly at our parks and resorts and studio operations. In addition, we may take mitigation actions in the future to respond to the impacts of COVID-19 or other health outbreaks or pandemics on our businesses, such as raising additional financing; not declaring future dividends; further suspending or reducing capital spending; reducing film and television content investments; implementing furloughs or reductions in force or modifying our operating strategy. These and other of our mitigating actions may have an adverse impact on our businesses. Additionally, there are limitations on our ability to mitigate the adverse financial impact of COVID-19 and other health outbreaks or pandemics, including the fixed costs of our theme park business and the impact such events may have on capital markets and our cost of borrowing. Geographic variation in government requirements and ongoing changes to restrictions have disrupted and could further disrupt our businesses, including our production operations. Our operations could be suspended, re-suspended or subjected to new or reinstated limitations by government action or otherwise in the future as a result of developments related to COVID-19, such as the expansion of the Omicron subvariants or other variants, and other future health outbreaks and pandemics. For example, our international parks have reopened and closed multiple times since the onset of COVID-19. Some of our employees who returned to work were later refurloughed. Our operations could be further negatively impacted and our reputation could be negatively impacted by a significant COVID-19 or other health outbreak impacting our employees, customers or others interacting with our businesses, including our supply chain. The impacts of COVID-19 to our business have generally amplified, or reduced our ability to mitigate, the other risks discussed in our filings with the SEC and our remediation efforts may not be successful. COVID-19 also makes it more challenging for management to estimate future performance of our businesses. COVID-19 has already adversely impacted our businesses and net cash flow, and we expect the ultimate magnitude of these disruptions on our financial and operational results will be dictated by the length of time that such disruptions continue which will, in turn, depend on the currently unknowable duration and severity of the impacts of COVID-19, and among other things, the impact and duration of governmental actions imposed in response to COVID-19 and individuals’ and companies’ risk tolerance regarding health matters going forward. Changes in U.S., global, and regional economic conditions are expected to have an adverse effect on the profitability of our businesses. A decline in economic conditions, such as recession, economic downturn, and/or inflationary conditions in the U.S. and other regions of the world in which we do business can adversely affect demand and/or expenses for any of our businesses, thus reducing our revenue and earnings. Past declines in economic conditions reduced spending at our parks and resorts, purchases 19 of and prices for advertising on our broadcast and cable networks and owned stations, performance of our home entertainment releases, and purchases of Company-branded consumer products, and similar impacts can be expected as such conditions recur. The current decline in economic conditions could also reduce attendance at our parks and resorts, prices that MVPDs pay for our cable programming, purchases of and prices for advertising on our DTC products or subscription levels for our cable programming or DTC products, while also increasing the prices we pay for goods, services and labor. Economic conditions can also impair the ability of those with whom we do business to satisfy their obligations to us. In addition, an increase in price levels generally, or in price levels in a particular sector such as current inflation in the domestic and global energy sector and other pronounced price increases generally and in certain other sectors, could result in a shift in consumer demand away from the entertainment and consumer products we offer, which could also adversely affect our revenues and, at the same time, increase our costs. A decline in economic conditions could impact implementation of our business plans, such as our plans to realign our cost structure and for the new DTC ad-supported service, pricing structure and price increases. In addition, actions to reduce inflation, including raising interest rates, increase our cost of borrowing, which in turn could make it more difficult to obtain financing for our operations or investments on favorable terms. Further, global economic conditions may impact foreign currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar. The current or continued strength in the value of the U.S. dollar has adversely impacted the U.S. dollar value of revenue we receive and expect to receive from other markets and may reduce international demand for our products and services. A decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar may increase our labor, supply or other costs in non-U.S. markets. Although we hedge exposure to certain foreign currency fluctuations, any such hedging activity may not substantially offset the negative financial impact of exchange rate fluctuations and is not expected to offset all such negative financial impact, particularly in periods of sustained U.S. dollar strength relative to multiple foreign currencies. Further, economic or political conditions in countries outside the U.S. also have reduced, and could continue to reduce, our ability to hedge exposure to currency fluctuations in those countries or our ability to repatriate revenue from those countries. Broader supply chain delays, such as those currently impacting global distribution may further exacerbate current inflationary pressures and impact our ability to sell and deliver goods or otherwise disrupt our operations. The adverse impact on our businesses of the decline in economic conditions will depend, in part, on its severity and duration and our ability to mitigate the impacts of this decline on our businesses will be limited. Changes in technology and in consumer consumption patterns may affect demand for our entertainment products, the revenue we can generate from these products or the cost of producing or distributing products. The media entertainment and internet businesses in which we participate increasingly depend on our ability to successfully adapt to shifting patterns of content consumption through the adoption and exploitation of new technologies. New technologies affect the demand for our products, the manner in which our products are distributed to consumers, ways we charge for and receive revenue for our entertainment products and the stability of those revenue streams, the sources and nature of competing content offerings, the time and manner in which consumers acquire and view some of our entertainment products and the options available to advertisers for reaching their desired audiences. This trend has impacted the business model for certain traditional forms of distribution, as evidenced by the industry-wide decline in ratings for broadcast television, the reduction in demand for home entertainment sales of theatrical content, the development of alternative distribution channels for broadcast and cable programming and declines in subscriber levels for traditional cable channels, including for a number of our networks. In addition, theater-going to watch movies currently is, and may continue to be, below pre-COVID-19 levels. Declines in linear viewership have resulted in decreased advertising revenue. In order to respond to these developments, we regularly consider, and from time to time implement changes to our business models, most recently by developing, investing in and acquiring DTC products, initiating plans to again reorganize our media and entertainment businesses to advance our DTC strategies, and developing next generation storytelling offerings. There can be no assurance that our DTC offerings, next generation storytelling offerings and other efforts will successfully respond to these changes. In addition, declines in certain traditional forms of distribution may increase the cost of content allocable to our DTC offerings, negatively impacting the profitability of our DTC offerings. We expect to forgo revenue from traditional sources, particularly as we expand our DTC offerings. To date we have experienced significant losses in our DTC businesses. There can be no assurance that the DTC model and other business models we may develop will ultimately be profitable or as profitable as our existing or historic business models. Misalignment with public and consumer tastes and preferences for entertainment, travel and consumer products could negatively impact demand for our entertainment offerings and products and adversely affect the profitability of any of our businesses. Our businesses create entertainment, travel and consumer products whose success depends substantially on consumer tastes and preferences that change in often unpredictable ways. The success of our businesses depends on our ability to consistently create compelling content, which may be distributed, among other ways, through broadcast, cable, internet or cellular technology, theme park attractions, hotels and other resort facilities and travel experiences and consumer products. Such distribution must meet the changing preferences of the broad consumer market and respond to competition from an expanding array of choices facilitated by technological developments in the delivery of content. The success of our theme parks, resorts, cruise ships and experiences, as well as our theatrical releases, depends on demand for public or out-of-home 20 entertainment experiences. Demand for certain of our out-of-home entertainment experiences, such as theater-going to watch movies, has not returned to pre-pandemic levels, and COVID-19 may continue to impact consumer tastes and preferences. In addition, many of our businesses increasingly depend on acceptance of our offerings and products by consumers outside the U.S. The success of our businesses therefore depends on our ability to successfully predict and adapt to changing consumer tastes and preferences outside as well as inside the U.S. Moreover, we must often invest substantial amounts in content production and acquisition, acquisition of sports rights, theme park attractions, cruise ships or hotels and other facilities or customer facing platforms before we know the extent to which these products will earn consumer acceptance, and these products may be introduced into a significantly different market or economic or social climate from the one we anticipated at the time of the investment decisions. If our entertainment offerings and products (including our content offerings, which have been impacted by COVID-19 and may in the future be impacted by COVID-19 developments or other health outbreaks or pandemics) as well as our methods to make our offerings and products available to consumers, do not achieve sufficient consumer acceptance, our revenue may decline, decline further or fail to grow to the extent we anticipate when making investment decisions and thereby further adversely affect the profitability of one or more of our businesses. Further, consumers’ perceptions of our position on matters of public interest, including our efforts to achieve certain of our environmental and social goals, often differ widely and present risks to our reputation and brands. Consumer tastes and preferences impact, among other items, revenue from advertising sales (which are based in part on ratings for the programs in which advertisements air), affiliate fees, subscription fees, theatrical film receipts, the license of rights to other distributors, theme park admissions, hotel room charges and merchandise, food and beverage sales, sales of licensed consumer products or sales of our other consumer products and services. The success of our businesses is highly dependent on the existence and maintenance of intellectual property rights in the entertainment products and services we create. The value to us of our IP is dependent on the scope and duration of our rights as defined by applicable laws in the U.S. and abroad and the manner in which those laws are construed. If those laws are drafted or interpreted in ways that limit the extent or duration of our rights, or if existing laws are changed, our ability to generate revenue from our IP may decrease, or the cost of obtaining and maintaining rights may increase. The terms of some copyrights for IP related to some of our products and services have expired and other copyrights will expire in the future. For example, in the United States and countries that look to the United States copyright term when shorter than their own, the copyright term for early works such as the short film Steamboat Willie (1928), and the specific early versions of characters depicted in those works, expires at the end of the 95th calendar year after the date the copyright was originally secured in the United States. Revenues generated from this intellectual property could be negatively impacted. The unauthorized use of our IP may increase the cost of protecting rights in our IP or reduce our revenues. The convergence of computing, communication and entertainment devices, increased broadband internet speed and penetration, increased availability and speed of mobile data transmission and increasingly sophisticated attempts to obtain unauthorized access to data systems have made the unauthorized digital copying and distribution of our films, television productions and other creative works easier and faster and protection and enforcement of IP rights more challenging. The unauthorized distribution and access to entertainment content generally continues to be a significant challenge for IP rights holders. Inadequate laws or weak enforcement mechanisms to protect entertainment industry IP in one country can adversely affect the results of the Company’s operations worldwide, despite the Company’s efforts to protect its IP rights. COVID-19 and distribution innovation in response to COVID-19 has increased opportunities to access content in unauthorized ways. Additionally, negative economic conditions coupled with a shift in government priorities could lead to less enforcement. These developments require us to devote substantial resources to protecting our IP against unlicensed use and present the risk of increased losses of revenue as a result of unlicensed distribution of our content and other commercial misuses of our IP. With respect to IP developed by the Company and rights acquired by the Company from others, the Company is subject to the risk of challenges to our copyright, trademark and patent rights by third parties. Successful challenges to our rights in IP may result in increased costs for obtaining rights or the loss of the opportunity to earn revenue from or utilize the IP that is the subject of challenged rights. From time to time, the Company has been notified that it may be infringing certain IP rights of third parties. Technological changes in industries in which the Company operates and extensive patent coverage in those areas may increase the risk of such claims being brought and prevailing. Protection of electronically stored data and other cybersecurity is costly, and if our data or systems are materially compromised in spite of this protection, we may incur additional costs, lost opportunities, damage to our reputation, disruption of service or theft of our assets. We maintain information necessary to conduct our business, including confidential and proprietary information as well as personal information regarding our customers and employees, in digital form. We also use computer systems to deliver our products and services and operate our businesses. Data maintained in digital form is subject to the risk of unauthorized access, modification, exfiltration, destruction or denial of access and our computer systems are subject to cyberattacks that may result in disruptions in service. We use many third-party systems and software, which are also subject to supply chain and other 21 cyberattacks. We develop and maintain an information security program to identify and mitigate cyber risks but the development and maintenance of this program is costly and requires ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies change and efforts to overcome security measures become more sophisticated. Accordingly, despite our efforts, the risk of unauthorized access, modification, exfiltration, destruction or denial of access with respect to data or systems and other cybersecurity attacks cannot be eliminated entirely, and the risks associated with a potentially material incident remain. In addition, we provide some confidential, proprietary and personal information to third parties in certain cases, which may also be compromised. If our information or cyber security systems or data are compromised in a material way, our ability to conduct our business may be impaired, we may lose profitable opportunities or the value of those opportunities may be diminished and, as described above, we may lose revenue as a result of unlicensed use of our intellectual property. If personal information of our customers or employees is misappropriated, our reputation with our customers and employees may be damaged resulting in loss of business or morale, and we may incur costs to remediate possible harm to our customers and employees or damages arising from litigation and/or to pay fines or take other action with respect to judicial or regulatory actions arising out of the incident. Insurance we obtain may not cover losses or damages associated with such attacks or events. Our systems and users and those of third parties with whom we engage are continually attacked, sometimes successfully. A variety of uncontrollable events may reduce demand for or consumption of our products and services, impair our ability to provide our products and services or increase the cost or reduce the profitability of providing our products and services. Demand for and consumption of our products and services, particularly our theme parks and resorts, is highly dependent on the general environment for travel and tourism. The environment for travel and tourism, as well as demand for and consumption of other entertainment products, can be significantly adversely affected in the U.S., globally or in specific regions as a result of a variety of factors beyond our control, including: health concerns (including as it has been by COVID-19 and could be by future health outbreaks and pandemics); adverse weather conditions arising from short-term weather patterns or long-term climate change, catastrophic events or natural disasters (such as excessive heat or rain, hurricanes, typhoons, floods, droughts, tsunamis and earthquakes); international, political or military developments (including social unrest); a decline in economic activity; and terrorist attacks. These events and others, such as fluctuations in travel and energy costs and computer virus attacks, intrusions or other widespread computing or telecommunications failures, may also damage our ability to provide our products and services or to obtain insurance coverage with respect to some of these events. An incident that affected our property directly would have a direct impact on our ability to provide goods and services and could have an extended effect of discouraging consumers from attending our facilities. Moreover, the costs of protecting against such incidents, including the costs of protecting against the spread of COVID-19, reduces the profitability of our operations. For example, hurricanes, including Hurricane Ian in late September 2022, which caused Walt Disney World Resort parks in Florida to close for two days, have impacted the profitability of Walt Disney World Resort and may do so in the future. The Company has paused certain operations in certain regions and the profitability of certain operations has been impacted as a result of events in the corresponding regions. In addition, we derive affiliate fees and royalties from the distribution of our programming, sales of our licensed goods and services by third parties, and the management of businesses operated under brands licensed from the Company, and we are therefore dependent on the successes of those third parties for that portion of our revenue. A wide variety of factors could influence the success of those third parties and if negative factors significantly impacted a sufficient number of those third parties, the profitability of one or more of our businesses could be adversely affected. In specific geographic markets, we have experienced delayed and/or partial payments from certain affiliate partners due to liquidity issues. We obtain insurance against the risk of losses relating to some of these events, generally including certain physical damage to our property and resulting business interruption, certain injuries occurring on our property and some liabilities for alleged breach of legal responsibilities. When insurance is obtained it is subject to deductibles, exclusions, terms, conditions and limits of liability. The types and levels of coverage we obtain vary from time to time depending on our view of the likelihood of specific types and levels of loss in relation to the cost of obtaining coverage for such types and levels of loss and we may experience material losses not covered by our insurance. For example, many losses related to impacts of COVID-19 have not been covered by insurance available to us. Changes in our business strategy or restructuring of our businesses has increased and may continue to increase our costs and has otherwise affected and may continue to affect the profitability of our businesses or the value of our assets. As changes in our business environment occur we have adjusted, continue to adjust and may further adjust our business strategies to meet these changes and we may otherwise decide to further restructure our operations or particular businesses or assets. For example, in November 2022, we announced plans to reorganize DMED to advance our DTC strategies and rationalize costs; in fiscal 2022, we announced plans to introduce an ad-supported Disney+ service, new pricing model and price increases and cost realignment; in March 2021, we announced the closure of a substantial number of our Disney-branded 22 retail stores; and we have announced exploration of a number of new types of businesses. In addition, with the recent change in leadership, there may be additional adjustments to our business strategies. Our new organization and strategies are, among other things, subject to execution risk and may not produce the anticipated benefits, such as supporting our growth strategies and enhancing shareholder value. For example, notwithstanding our announced plans to rationalize costs, the costs of our DTC strategy, and associated losses, may continue to grow or be reduced more slowly than anticipated, which may impact our distribution strategy across businesses/distribution platforms, the types of content we distribute through various businesses/distribution platforms, and the timing and sequencing of content windows. Our new organization and strategies could be less successful than our previous organizational structure and strategies. In addition, external events including changing technology, changing consumer purchasing patterns, acceptance of content offerings and changes in macroeconomic conditions may impair the value of our assets. When these changes or events occur, we have incurred and may continue to incur costs to change our business strategy and have needed and may in the future need to write-down the value of assets. For example, current conditions, including COVID-19 and our business decisions, have reduced the value of some of our assets. We have impaired goodwill and intangible assets at our International Channels businesses and impaired the value of certain of our retail store assets. We may write-down other assets as our strategy evolves to account for the current business environment. We also make investments in existing or new businesses, including investments in international expansion of our business and in new business lines. In recent years, such investments have included expansion and renovation of certain of our theme parks, expansion of our fleet of cruise ships, the acquisition of TFCF and investments related to DTC offerings. Some of these investments have returns that are negative or low, the ultimate business prospects of the businesses related to these investments are uncertain, these investments may impact the profitability of our other businesses, and these risks are exacerbated by COVID-19. In any of these events, our costs may increase, we may have significant charges associated with the write-down of assets or returns on new investments may be negative or lower than prior to the change in strategy or restructuring. Even if our strategies are effective in the long term, our new offerings will generally not be profitable in the short term, growth of our new offerings is unlikely to be even quarter over quarter and we may not expand into new markets as or when anticipated. Our ability to forecast for new businesses may be impacted by our lack of experience operating in those new businesses, speed with which the competitive landscape changes, volatility beyond our control (such as the events beyond our control noted above) and our ability to obtain or develop the content and rights on which our projections are based. Accordingly, we may not achieve our forecasted outcomes. Increased competitive pressures may reduce our revenues or increase our costs. We face substantial competition in each of our businesses from alternative providers of the products and services we offer and from other forms of entertainment, lodging, tourism and recreational activities. This includes, among other types, competition for human resources, content and other resources we require in operating our business. For example: • Our programming and production operations compete to obtain creative, performing and business talent, sports and other programming, story properties, advertiser support and market share with other studio operators, television networks, SVOD providers and other new sources of broadband delivered content. • Our television networks and stations and DTC offerings compete for the sale of advertising time with other television and SVOD services, as well as with newspapers, magazines, billboards and radio stations. In addition, we increasingly face competition for advertising sales from internet and mobile delivered content, which offer advertising delivery technologies that are more targeted than can be achieved through traditional means. • Our television networks compete for carriage of their programming with other programming providers. • Our theme parks and resorts compete for guests with all other forms of entertainment, lodging, tourism and recreation activities. • Our content sales/licensing operations compete for customers with all other forms of entertainment. • Our consumer products business competes with other licensors and creators of IP. • Our DTC businesses compete for customers with an increasing number of competitors’ DTC offerings, all other forms of media and all other forms of entertainment, as well as for technology, creative, performing and business talent and for content. Competition in each of these areas may further increase as a result of technological developments and changes in market structure, including consolidation of suppliers of resources and distribution channels. Increased competition may increase the cost of programming and other products and divert consumers from our creative or other products, or to other products or other forms of entertainment, which could reduce our revenue or increase our marketing costs. Competition for the acquisition of resources can further increase the cost of producing our products and services, deprive us of talent necessary to produce high quality creative material or increase the cost of compensation for our employees. Such competition may also reduce, or limit growth in, prices for our products and services, including advertising rates and subscription fees at our media networks and DTC offerings, parks and resorts admissions and room rates and prices for consumer products from which we derive license revenues. 23 Our results may be adversely affected if long-term programming or carriage contracts are not renewed on sufficiently favorable terms. We enter into long-term contracts for both the acquisition and the distribution of media programming and products, including contracts for the acquisition of programming rights for sporting events and other programs, and contracts for the distribution of our programming to content distributors. As these contracts expire, we must renew or renegotiate the contracts, and if we are unable to renew them on acceptable terms, we may lose programming rights or distribution rights. As a result, our portfolio of programming rights and the distributors of our programming have changed and may continue to change over time. Even if these contracts are renewed, the cost of obtaining certain programming rights has increased and may continue to increase (or increase at faster rates than our historical experience) and programming distributors, facing pressures resulting from increased subscription fees and alternative distribution challenges, have demanded and may continue to demand terms (including pricing and the breadth of distribution) that reduce our revenue from distribution of programs (or increase revenue at slower rates than our historical experience). Moreover, our ability to renew these contracts on favorable terms may be affected by a number of factors, such as consolidation in the market for program distribution, the entrance of new participants in the market for distribution of content on digital platforms and the impacts of COVID-19. With respect to the acquisition of programming rights, particularly sports programming rights, the impact of these long-term contracts on our results over the term of the contracts depends on a number of factors, including the strength of advertising markets, subscription levels and rates for programming, effectiveness of marketing efforts and the size of viewer audiences. There can be no assurance that revenues from programming based on these rights will exceed the cost of the rights plus the other costs of producing and distributing the programming. Changes in regulations applicable to our businesses may impair the profitability of our businesses. Our broadcast networks and television stations are highly regulated, and each of our other businesses is subject to a variety of U.S. and overseas regulations. Some of these regulations include: • U.S. FCC regulation of our television and radio networks, our national programming networks and our owned television stations. See Item 1 — Business — Disney Media and Entertainment Distribution, Federal Regulation. • Federal, state and foreign privacy and data protection laws and regulations. • Regulation of the safety and supply chain of consumer products and theme park operations, including potential regulation regarding the sourcing, importation and the sale of goods. • Environmental protection regulations. • U.S. and international anti-corruption laws, sanction programs and trade restrictions, restrictions on the manner in which content is currently licensed and distributed, ownership restrictions, currency exchange controls or film or television content requirements, investment obligations or quotas. • Domestic and international labor laws, tax laws or currency controls. New laws and regulations, as well as changes in any of these current laws and regulations or regulator activities in any of these areas, or others, may require us to spend additional amounts to comply with the regulations, or may restrict our ability to offer products and services in ways that are profitable, and create an increasingly unpredictable regulatory landscape. For example, in 2019 India implemented regulation and tariffs impacting certain bundling of channels; in 2022 the U.S. and other countries implemented a series of sanctions against Russia in response to events in Russia and Ukraine; U.S. agencies have enhanced trade restrictions and legislation is currently under consideration that would prohibit importation of goods from certain regions; U.S. state governments have become more active in passing legislation targeted at specific sectors and companies; and in many countries/regions around the world (including but not limited to the EU) regulators are requiring us to broadcast on our linear (or display on our DTC streaming services) programming produced in specific countries as well as invest specified amounts of our revenues in local content productions. Public health and other regional, national, state and local regulations and policies are impacting our ability to operate our businesses at all or in accordance with historic practice. In addition to the government requirements that have impacted most of our businesses as a result of COVID-19, government requirements may continue to be extended and new government requirements may be imposed to address COVID-19 or future health outbreaks or pandemics. Our operations outside the U.S. may be adversely affected by the operation of laws in those jurisdictions. Our operations in non-U.S. jurisdictions are in many cases subject to the laws of the jurisdictions in which they operate rather than, or in addition to, U.S. law. Our risks of operating internationally have increased following the completion of the TFCF acquisition, which increased the importance of international operations to our future operations, growth and prospects. Laws in some jurisdictions differ in significant respects from those in the U.S. These differences can affect our ability to react to changes in our business, and our rights or ability to enforce rights may be different than would be expected under U.S. law. Moreover, enforcement of laws in some international jurisdictions can be inconsistent and unpredictable, which can affect both our ability to enforce our rights and to undertake activities that we believe are beneficial to our business. In addition, the business and political climate in some jurisdictions may encourage corruption, which could reduce our ability to compete 24 successfully in those jurisdictions while remaining in compliance with local laws or U.S. anti-corruption laws applicable to our businesses. As a result, our ability to generate revenue and our expenses in non-U.S. jurisdictions may differ from what would be expected if U.S. law alone governed these operations. Environmental, social and governance matters and any related reporting obligations may impact our businesses. U.S. and international regulators, investors and other stakeholders are increasingly focused on environmental, social, and governance (ESG) matters. For example, new domestic and international laws and regulations relating to ESG matters, including human capital, diversity, sustainability, climate change and cybersecurity, are under consideration or being adopted, which may include specific, target-driven disclosure requirements or obligations. Our response will require additional investments and implementation of new practices and reporting processes, all entailing additional compliance risk. In addition, we have announced a number of ESG initiatives and goals, which will require ongoing investment, and there is no assurance that we will achieve any of these goals or that our initiatives will achieve their intended outcomes. Consumers’ perceptions of our efforts to achieve these goals often differ widely and present risks to our reputation and brands. In addition, our ability to implement some initiatives or achieve some goals is dependent on external factors. For example, our ability to meet certain sustainability goals or initiatives may depend in part on third-party collaboration, mitigation innovations and/or the availability of economically feasible solutions at scale. Damage to our reputation or brands may negatively impact our Company across businesses and regions. Our reputation and globally recognizable brands are integral to the success of our businesses. Because our brands engage consumers across our businesses, damage to our reputation or brands in one business may have an impact on our other businesses. Because some of our brands are globally recognized, brand damage may not be locally contained. Maintenance of the reputation of our Company and brands depends on many factors including the quality of our offerings, maintenance of trust with our customers and our ability to successfully innovate. In addition, we may pursue brand or product integration combining previously separate brands or products targeting different audiences under one brand or pursue other business initiatives inconsistent with one or more of our brands, and there is no assurance that these initiatives will be accepted by our customers and not adversely impact one or more of our brands. Significant negative claims or publicity regarding the Company or its operations, products, management, employees, practices, business partners, business decisions, social responsibility and culture may materially damage our brands or reputation, even if such claims are untrue. Damage to our reputation or brands could impact our sales, business opportunities, profitability, recruiting and valuation of our securities. Various risks may impact the success of our DTC business. We may not successfully execute on our DTC strategy. The success of our DTC strategy and profitability of our DTC businesses will be impacted by the success of our efforts to reorganize DMED to advance our DTC strategies, drive subscriber additions and retention based on the attractiveness of our content, manage churn in reaction to price increases, achieve the desired financial impact of the Disney+ ad supported service, pricing model and price increases, our ability to execute on cost realignment and the effects of our determinations with regard to distribution for our creative content across windows. The initial costs of marketing campaigns are generally recognized in the DMED business/distribution platform of initial exploitation, and allocation of programming and production costs is driven by distribution of the relevant content across windows. Accordingly, our distribution determinations impact the costs of each business/distribution channel, including DTC. An increasing number of competitors have entered DTC businesses. Consumers may not be willing to pay for an expanding set of DTC streaming services at increasing prices, potentially exacerbated by an economic downturn. In addition, economic downturns negatively impact the purchase of and price for advertising on our DTC streaming services. We face competition for creative talent and may not be successful in recruiting and retaining talent, or may face increased costs to do so. Our content may not successfully attract and retain subscribers in the quantities that we expect. Our content is subject to cost pressures and may cost more than we expect. We may not successfully manage our costs to meet our profitability goals. Government regulation, including revised foreign content and ownership regulations, may impact the implementation of our DTC business plans. The highly competitive environment in which we operate puts pricing pressure on our DTC offerings and may require us to lower our prices or not take price increases to attract or retain customers or experience higher churn rates. These and other risks may impact the profitability and success of our DTC businesses. Potential credit ratings actions, increases in interest rates, or volatility in the U.S. and global financial markets could impede access to, or increase the cost of, financing our operations and investments. Our borrowing costs have been, and can be affected by short- and long-term debt ratings assigned by independent ratings agencies that are based, in part, on the Company’s performance as measured by credit metrics such as leverage and interest coverage ratios. As a result of the financial impact of COVID-19 on our businesses, Standard and Poor’s downgraded our long-term debt ratings by two notches to BBB+ and downgraded our short-term debt ratings by one notch to A-2. Fitch downgraded our long- and short-term credit ratings by one notch to A- and F2, respectively. As of October 1, 2022 Moody’s Investors Service’s long- and short-term debt ratings for the Company were A2 and P-1 (Stable), respectively, Standard and Poor’s long- and short-term debt ratings for the Company were BBB+ and A-2 (Positive), respectively, and Fitch’s long- and short-term debt ratings for the Company were A- and F2 (Stable), respectively. These ratings actions have increased, and any potential future 25 downgrades could further increase, our cost of borrowing and/or make it more difficult for us to obtain financing on acceptable terms. In addition, increases in interest rates have increased our cost of borrowing and volatility in U.S. and global financial markets could impact our access to, or further increase the cost of, financing. Past disruptions in the U.S. and global credit and equity markets made it more difficult for many businesses to obtain financing on acceptable terms. These conditions tended to increase the cost of borrowing and if they recur, our cost of borrowing could increase and it may be more difficult to obtain financing for our operations or investments. Labor disputes may disrupt our operations and adversely affect the profitability of any of our businesses. A significant number of employees in various parts of our businesses, including employees of our theme parks and writers, directors, actors, and production personnel for our productions are covered by collective bargaining agreements. In addition, some of our employees outside the U.S. are represented by works councils, trade unions or other employee associations. Further, the employees of licensees who manufacture and retailers who sell our consumer products, and employees of providers of programming content (such as sports leagues) may be covered by labor agreements with their employers. In general, a labor dispute involving our employees or the employees of our licensees or retailers who sell our consumer products or providers of programming content may disrupt our operations and reduce our revenues. Resolution of disputes or negotiation of rate increases may increase our costs. The seasonality of certain of our businesses and timing of certain of our product offerings could exacerbate negative impacts on our operations. Each of our businesses is normally subject to seasonal variations and variations in connection with the timing of our product offerings, including as follows: • Revenues at DPEP fluctuate with changes in theme park attendance and resort occupancy resulting from the seasonal nature of vacation travel and leisure activities and seasonal consumer purchasing behavior, which generally results in increased revenues during the Company’s first and fourth fiscal quarters. Peak attendance and resort occupancy generally occur during the summer months when school vacations occur and during early winter and spring holiday periods. In addition, licensing revenues fluctuate with the timing and performance of our theatrical releases and cable programming broadcasts, many of which have been delayed, canceled or modified. • Revenues from television networks and stations are subject to seasonal advertising patterns and changes in viewership levels. In general, advertising revenues are somewhat higher during the fall and somewhat lower during the summer months. • Revenues from content sales/licensing fluctuate due to the timing of content releases across various distribution markets. Release dates and methods are determined by a number of factors, including, among others, competition, the timing of vacation and holiday periods and impacts of COVID-19 to various distribution markets. • DTC revenues fluctuate based on changes in the number of subscribers and subscriber fee or revenue mix; viewership levels on our digital platforms; and the demand for sports and film and television content. Each of these may depend on the availability of content, which varies from time to time throughout the year based on, among other things, sports seasons, content production schedules and league shut downs. Because our DTC business is relatively new, we have limited data on which to base our understanding of DTC seasonality. Accordingly, negative impacts on our business occurring during a time of typical high seasonal demand such as our park closures due to COVID-19 restrictions or hurricane damage during the summer travel season or other high seasons, could have a disproportionate effect on the results of that business for the year. Costs of employee health, welfare and pension benefits, including postretirement medical benefits for some employees and retirees, may reduce our profitability. With approximately 220,000 employees, our profitability is substantially affected by costs of our health, welfare and pension benefits, including the costs of medical benefits for current employees and the costs of postretirement medical benefits for some current employees and retirees. We may experience significant increases in these costs as a result of macroeconomic factors, which are beyond our control, including increases in the cost of health care. Impacts of COVID-19 or future health outbreaks and pandemics may lead to an increase in the cost of medical insurance and expenses. In addition, changes in investment returns and discount rates used to calculate pension and postretirement medical expense and related assets and liabilities can be volatile and may have an unfavorable impact on our costs in some years. These macroeconomic factors as well as a decline in the fair value of pension and postretirement medical plan assets may put upward pressure on the cost of providing pension and postretirement medical benefits and may increase future funding requirements. There can be no assurance that we will succeed in limiting cost increases, and continued upward pressure could reduce the profitability of our businesses. 26 ACQUISITION RISKS Our consolidated indebtedness increased substantially following completion of the TFCF acquisition and further increased as a result of the impacts of COVID-19. This increased level of indebtedness could adversely affect us, including by decreasing our business flexibility. As a result of the TFCF acquisition in fiscal 2019, the Company’s net indebtedness increased substantially. The increased indebtedness could have the effect of, among other things, reducing our financial flexibility and reducing our flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions, such as those presented by COVID-19, among others. Increased levels of indebtedness could also reduce funds available for investments, capital expenditures, share repurchases and dividends, and other activities and may create competitive disadvantages for us relative to other companies with lower debt levels. Our leverage ratios have increased as the result of COVID-19’s impact on financial performance, which caused certain of the credit ratings agencies to downgrade their assessment of our credit ratings, and are expected to remain elevated at least in the near term. Our debt ratings may be further downgraded, which may negatively impact our cost of borrowings. The TFCF acquisition and integration and Hulu put/call may result in additional costs and expenses. We have incurred and may continue to incur significant costs, expenses and fees for professional services and other transaction and financing costs in connection with the TFCF acquisition and integration and the Hulu put/call agreement with NBCU. We may also incur accounting and other costs that were not anticipated at the time of the TFCF acquisition, including costs for which we have established reserves or which may lead to reserves in the future. Such costs, including the Company’s obligations under the Hulu put/call agreement with NBCU, could negatively impact the Company’s free cash flow and result in the Company incurring additional indebtedness. GENERAL RISKS The price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile. The price of our common stock has experienced substantial volatility and may continue to be volatile. Various factors have impacted, and may continue to impact, the price of our common stock, including, among others, changes in management; variations in our operating results; variations between our actual results and expectations of securities analysts; changes in our estimates, guidance or business plans; changes in financial estimates and recommendations by securities analysts; the activities, operating results or stock price of our competitors or other industry participants in the industries in which we operate; the announcement or completion of significant transactions by us or a competitor; events affecting the stock market generally; and the economic and political conditions in the U.S. and internationally, as well as other factors described in this Item 1A. Some of these factors may adversely impact the price of our common stock, regardless of our operating performance. Further, volatility in the price of our common stock may negatively impact one or more of our businesses, including by increasing cash compensation or stock awards for our employees who participate in our stock incentive programs or limiting our financing options for acquisitions and other business expansion. The Company’s amended and restated bylaws provide to the fullest extent permitted by law that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the exclusive forum for certain legal actions between the Company and its stockholders, which could increase costs to bring a claim, discourage claims or limit the ability of the Company’s stockholders to bring a claim in a judicial forum viewed by the stockholders as more favorable for disputes with the Company or the Company’s directors, officers or other employees. The Company’s amended and restated bylaws provide to the fullest extent permitted by law that unless the Company consents in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware will be the sole and exclusive forum for any (i) derivative action or proceeding brought on behalf of the Company, (ii) any action or proceeding asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any current or former director, officer or stockholder of the Company to the Company or the Company’s stockholders, (iii) any action or proceeding asserting a claim arising pursuant to, or seeking to enforce any right, obligation or remedy under, any provision of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the “DGCL”), the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws (as each may be amended from time to time), (iv) any action or proceeding as to which the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware confers jurisdiction on the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware, (v) or any action or proceeding asserting a claim governed by the internal affairs doctrine. The choice of forum provision may increase costs to bring a claim, discourage claims or limit a stockholder’s ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that it finds favorable for disputes with the Company or the Company’s directors, officers or other employees, which may discourage such lawsuits against the Company or the Company’s directors, officers and other employees. Alternatively, if a court were to find the choice of forum provision contained in the Company’s amended and restated bylaws to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, the Company may incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions. The exclusive forum provision in the Company’s amended and restated bylaws will not preclude or contract the scope of exclusive federal or concurrent jurisdiction for actions brought under the federal securities laws including the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the respective rules and regulations promulgated thereunder. 27

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

CONSOLIDATED RESULTS (in millions, except per share data) (1) Total may not equal the sum of the column due to rounding. 31 Organization of Information Management’s Discussion and Analysis provides a narrative on the Company’s financial performance and condition that should be read in conjunction with the accompanying financial statements. It includes the following sections: • Significant Developments • Consolidated Results and Non-Segment Items • Business Segment Results • Corporate and Unallocated Shared Expenses • Restructuring Activities • Liquidity and Capital Resources • Supplemental Guarantor Financial Information • Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates In Item 7, we discuss fiscal 2022 and 2021 results and comparisons of fiscal 2022 results to fiscal 2021 results. Discussions of fiscal 2020 results and comparisons of fiscal 2021 results to fiscal 2020 results can be found in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in for the fiscal year ended October 2, 2021. SIGNIFICANT DEVELOPMENTS Leadership Change and Pending Restructuring As previously announced, on November 20, 2022, Robert A. Iger returned to the Company as Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) and a director. Mr. Iger previously spent more than four decades at the Company, including 15 years as CEO. In announcing Mr. Iger’s appointment, the Company noted he has agreed to serve as CEO for two years, with a mandate from the Company’s Board of Directors “to set the strategic direction for renewed growth and to work closely with the Board in developing a successor to lead the Company at the completion of his term.” Mr. Iger succeeded Robert A. Chapek, who had served as CEO since 2020. As contemplated by the leadership change announcement, we anticipate that within the coming months Mr. Iger will initiate organizational and operating changes within the Company to address the Board’s goals. While the plans are in early stages, changes in our structure and operations, including within DMED (and including possibly our distribution approach and the businesses/distribution platforms selected for the initial distribution of content), can be expected. The restructuring and change in business strategy, once determined, could result in impairment charges. COVID-19 Pandemic Since early 2020, the world has been, and continues to be, impacted by COVID-19 and its variants. COVID-19 and measures to prevent its spread have impacted our segments in a number of ways, most significantly at DPEP where our theme parks and resorts were closed and cruise ship sailings and guided tours were suspended. In addition, at DMED we delayed, or in some cases, shortened or cancelled theatrical releases and experienced disruptions in the production and availability of content. Operations have resumed at various points since May 2020, with certain theme park and resort operations and film and television productions resuming by the end of fiscal 2020 and throughout fiscal 2021. Although operations resumed, many of our businesses continue to experience impacts from COVID-19, such as incremental health and safety measures and related increased expenses, capacity restrictions and closures (including at some of our international parks and in theaters in certain markets), and disruption of content production activities. The impact of COVID-19 related disruptions on our financial and operational results will be dictated by the currently unknowable duration and severity of COVID-19 and its variants, and among other things, governmental actions imposed in response to COVID-19 and individuals’ and companies’ risk tolerance regarding health matters going forward. We have incurred and will continue to incur additional costs to address government regulations and the safety of our employees, guests and talent. Additionally, see Part I., Item 1A. Risk Factors - The adverse impact of COVID-19 on our businesses will continue for an unknown length of time and may continue to impact certain of our key sources of revenue. CONSOLIDATED RESULTS AND NON-SEGMENT ITEMS Revenues for fiscal 2022 increased 23%, or $15.3 billion, to $82.7 billion; net income attributable to Disney increased $1.2 billion, to income of $3.1 billion; and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations attributable to Disney increased to income of $1.75 compared to income of $1.11 in the prior year. The EPS increase was due to higher segment 32 operating results, partially offset by higher income tax expense in the current year compared to the prior year. Higher segment operating results reflecting growth at DPEP, partially offset by lower operating results at DMED. Revenues Service revenues for fiscal 2022 increased 20%, or $12.4 billion, to $74.2 billion, due to increased revenues at our theme parks and resorts, higher DTC subscription revenue and, to a lesser extent, higher theatrical distribution and advertising revenue. These increases were partially offset by a reduction in revenue for amounts to early terminate certain license agreements with a customer for film and television content, which was delivered in previous years, in order for the Company to use the content primarily on our DTC services (Content License Early Termination). The increase at theme parks and resorts was due to higher volumes, which generally reflected the impact of operating with capacity restrictions in the prior year as a result of COVID-19, and higher average per capita ticket revenue. The increase in DTC subscription revenue was due to subscriber growth and higher average rates. Product revenues for fiscal 2022 increased 51%, or $2.9 billion, to $8.5 billion, due to higher sales volumes of merchandise, food and beverage at our theme parks and resorts. Costs and expenses Cost of services for fiscal 2022 increased 19%, or $7.8 billion, to $49.0 billion, due to higher programming and production costs, increased volumes at our theme parks and resorts and higher technical support costs at Direct-to-Consumer. The increase in programming and production costs was due to higher costs at Direct-to-Consumer, increased sports programming costs and an increase in production cost amortization due to theatrical revenue growth. These increases were partially offset by lower programming and production costs as a result of international channel closures. Cost of products for fiscal 2022 increased 36%, or $1.4 billion, to $5.4 billion, due to higher merchandise, food and beverage sales at our theme parks and resorts. Selling, general, administrative and other costs for fiscal 2022 increased 21%, or $2.9 billion, to $16.4 billion, primarily due to higher marketing costs at our DTC and, to a lesser extent, theatrical distribution and parks and experiences businesses. Restructuring and Impairment Charges Restructuring and impairment charges in fiscal 2022 were $0.2 billion primarily due to the impairment of an intangible and other assets related to our businesses in Russia. We may incur additional charges to exit these businesses, which are not anticipated to be material. Restructuring and impairment charges in fiscal 2021 were $0.7 billion due to $0.4 billion of asset impairments and severance costs related to the shut-down of an animation studio and the closure of a substantial number of Disney-branded retail stores in North America and Europe and $0.3 billion of severance and other costs in connection with the integration of TFCF and workforce reductions at DPEP. Other Income (expense), net In fiscal 2022, the Company recognized a non-cash loss of $ 663 million from the adjustment of its investment in DraftKings Inc. (DraftKings) to fair value (DraftKings loss). In fiscal 2021, the Company recognized a $186 million gain from the sale of our investment in fuboTV Inc. (fuboTV gain), a $126 million gain on the sale of our 50% interest in a German free-to-air (FTA) television network (German FTA gain) and a $111 million DraftKings loss. 33 Interest Expense, net Interest expense was comparable to the prior year as higher average interest rates were offset by lower average debt balances. The increase in interest income, investment income and other was due to a favorable comparison of pension and postretirement benefit costs, other than service cost, which was a net benefit in the current year and an expense in the prior year. This increase was partially offset by investment losses in the current year compared to investment gains in the prior year. Equity in the Income of Investees Equity in the income of investees increased $55 million to $ 816 million in the current year due to higher income from A+E Television Networks (A+E) and the comparison to investment impairments in the prior year. Effective Income Tax Rate The effective income tax rate in the current year was higher than the U.S. statutory rate primarily due to higher effective tax rates on foreign earnings. The effective income tax rate in the prior year was lower than the U.S. statutory rate due to favorable adjustments related to prior years and excess tax benefits on employee share-based awards, partially offset by higher effective tax rates on foreign earnings. Higher effective tax rates on foreign earnings in both the current and prior year reflected the impact of foreign losses and, to a lesser extent, foreign tax credits for which we are unable to recognize a tax benefit. Noncontrolling Interests The decrease in net income from continuing operations attributable to noncontrolling interests was primarily due to higher losses at Shanghai Disney Resort and higher losses at our DTC sports business, partially offset by higher results for ESPN. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests is determined on income after royalties and management fees, financing costs and income taxes, as applicable. Certain Items Impacting Results in the Year Results for fiscal 2022 were impacted by the following: • TFCF and Hulu acquisition amortization of $2,353 million • A $1.0 billion reduction in revenue for the Content License Early Termination • Other expense of $667 million due to the DraftKings loss of $663 million • Restructuring and impairment charges of $237 million Results for fiscal 2021 were impacted by the following: • TFCF and Hulu acquisition amortization of $2,418 million • Restructuring and impairment charges of $654 million • Other income of $201 million due to the fuboTV gain of $ 186 million and the German FTA gain of $ 126 million, partially offset by the DraftKings loss of $ 111 million 34 A summary of the impact of these items on EPS is as follows: (1) Tax benefit (expense) is determined using the tax rate applicable to the individual item. (2) EPS is net of noncontrolling interest, where applicable. Total may not equal the sum of the column due to rounding. (3) Includes amortization of intangibles related to TFCF equity investees. BUSINESS SEGMENT RESULTS Below is a discussion of the major revenue and expense categories for our business segments. Costs and expenses for each segment consist of operating expenses, selling, general, administrative and other costs, and depreciation and amortization. Selling, general, administrative and other costs include third-party and internal marketing expenses. DMED primarily generates revenue across three significant lines of business/distribution platforms: Linear Networks, Direct-to-Consumer and Content Sales/Licensing. Programming and production costs to support these businesses/distribution platforms are largely incurred across four content creation groups: Studios, General Entertainment, Sports and International. Programming and production costs include amortization of licensed programming rights (including sports rights), amortization of capitalized production costs, subscriber-based fees for programming our Hulu services, production costs related to live programming such as news and sports and amortization of participations and residual obligations. These costs are generally allocated across the DMED businesses based on the estimated relative value of the distribution windows. The initial costs of marketing campaigns are generally recognized in the DMED business/distribution platform of initial exploitation. We have taken an intentionally flexible approach to distribution. As we refine and adjust our plans, our decisions may impact the results of operations of the businesses within DMED, including cost allocation, revenue timing, viewership timing and patterns, the total mix of content on a business/distribution platform or other aspects relevant to the performance of each business/distribution platform. For example, a shift in the timing or planned business/platform of distribution impacts the timing and allocation of programming, production and marketing costs. The Linear Networks business generates revenue from affiliate fees and advertising sales and from fees from sub-licensing of sports programming to third parties. Operating expenses include programming and production costs, technology support costs, operating labor and distribution costs. The Direct-to-Consumer business generates revenue from subscription fees, advertising sales and pay-per-view and Premier Access fees. Operating expenses include programming and production costs, technology support costs, operating labor and distribution costs. Operating expenses also include fees paid to Linear Networks for the right to air the linear network feeds and other services. The Content Sales/Licensing business generates revenue from the sale of film and episodic television content in the TV/SVOD and home entertainment markets, distribution of films in the theatrical market, licensing of our music rights, sales of tickets to stage play performances and licensing of our IP for use in stage plays. Operating expenses include programming and production costs, distribution expenses and costs of sales. DPEP primarily generates revenue from the sale of admissions to theme parks, the sale of food, beverage and merchandise at our theme parks and resorts, charges for room nights at hotels, sales of cruise vacations, sales and rentals of vacation club properties, royalties from licensing our IP for use on consumer goods and the sale of branded merchandise. Revenues are also generated from sponsorships and co-branding opportunities, real estate rent and sales, and royalties from Tokyo Disney Resort. 35 Significant expenses include operating labor, costs of goods sold, infrastructure costs, depreciation and other operating expenses. Infrastructure costs include technology support costs, repairs and maintenance, utilities and fuel, property taxes, retail occupancy costs, insurance and transportation. Other operating expenses include costs for such items as supplies, commissions and entertainment offerings. The Company evaluates the performance of its operating segments based on segment operating income, and management uses total segment operating income as a measure of the overall performance of the operating businesses separate from non-operating factors. Total segment operating income is not a financial measure defined by GAAP, should be reviewed in conjunction with the relevant GAAP financial measure and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. The Company believes that information about total segment operating income assists investors by allowing them to evaluate changes in the operating results of the Company’s portfolio of businesses separate from non-operational factors that affect net income, thus providing separate insight into both operations and other factors that affect reported results. The following table reconciles revenues to segment revenues: The following table reconciles income from continuing operations before income taxes to total segment operating income: The following is a summary of segment revenue and operating income: 36 Disney Media and Entertainment Distribution Revenue and operating results for DMED are as follows: (1) Reflects fees received by the Linear Networks from other DMED businesses for the right to air our Linear Networks and related services. Linear Networks Operating results for Linear Networks are as follows: Revenues Affiliate revenue is as follows: The increase in affiliate revenue at the Domestic Channels was due to an increase of 6% from higher contractual rates, partially offset by a decrease of 4% from fewer subscribers. The decrease in affiliate revenue at the International Channels was due to decreases of 13% from fewer subscribers driven by channel closures, and 6% from an unfavorable foreign exchange impact. These decreases were partially offset by an increase of 2% from higher contractual rates. 37 Advertising revenue is as follows: The increase in Cable advertising revenue was due to increases of 3% from higher impressions and 2% from higher rates. The increase in impressions reflected higher average viewership, partially offset by fewer units delivered. The decrease in Broadcasting advertising revenue was due to a decrease of 12% from fewer impressions at ABC, reflecting lower average viewership, partially offset by an increase of 10% from higher rates at ABC. The increase in International Channels advertising revenue was due to increases of 8% from higher impressions and 7% from higher rates, partially offset by 7% from an unfavorable foreign exchange impact. The increase in impressions reflected higher average viewership, partially offset by the impact of channel closures. The increase in average viewership benefited from airing more cricket matches in the current year. The current year included the International Cricket Council (ICC) T20 World Cup, more Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) matches and the Asia Cricket Council (ACC) Asia Cup, partially offset by fewer Indian Premier League (IPL) matches in the current year compared to the prior year. The ICC T20 World Cup generally occurs every two years and was not held in the prior year due to COVID-19. The ACC Asia Cup was rescheduled from 2020 to the current year as a result of COVID-19. The increase in BCCI cricket matches aired in the current year was driven by COVID-19-related cancellations of certain BCCI matches in the prior year. Other revenue increased $95 million, to $683 million from $588 million, due to sub-licensing fees from ICC T20 World Cup matches and higher sub-licensing fees from BCCI cricket matches in the current year compared to the prior year. Costs and Expenses Operating expenses are as follows: The increase in programming and production costs at Cable was due to higher sports programming costs, largely offset by lower non-sports programming costs. The increase in sports programming costs was due to higher rights costs for NFL and College Football Playoffs (CFP) and an increase in sports production costs reflecting the return of ESPN-hosted events, which were canceled in the prior year due to COVID-19, partially offset by lower rights costs for MLB and NBA programming. Higher NFL programming costs were due to airing four additional regular season games in the current year compared to the prior year and contractual rate increases. The increase in CFP rights costs was due to higher contractual rates. Lower MLB programming costs were due to airing 29 games of the 2022 regular season under our new contract and one 2021 season playoff game in the current year compared to 92 games of the 2021 regular season in the prior year. The decrease in NBA programming costs was due to the comparison to airing four games of the 2020 NBA Finals in the first quarter of fiscal 2021 due to COVID-19, partially offset by contractual rate increases. Fiscal 2021 also included the 2021 NBA Finals and fiscal 2022 included the 2022 NBA finals. Lower non-sports programming costs were due to a lower cost mix of programming at FX Channels. Programming and production costs at Broadcasting were comparable to the prior year as higher costs for non-primetime programming were largely offset by lower costs for primetime programming. Increased costs for non-primetime programming were primarily due to higher costs for news programming and higher average costs and more hours of sports programming, while decreased costs for primetime programming were due to lower average costs for reality and scripted programming. 38 Programming and production costs at the International Channels were comparable to the prior year as an increase in sports programming costs, reflecting more cricket matches in the current year and higher average costs per match for BCCI and IPL cricket matches, was largely offset by the impact of channel closures and a favorable foreign exchange impact. Selling, general administrative and other costs increased $128 million, to $3,619 million from $3,491 million, driven by higher labor-related costs. Depreciation and amortization decreased $23 million, to $145 million from $168 million, driven by fully depreciated assets. Equity in the Income of Investees Income from equity investees increased $57 million, to $838 million from $781 million, due to higher income from A+E and the comparison to impairments in the prior year. The increase at A+E resulted from lower programming costs and higher program sales, partially offset by decreases in affiliate and advertising revenue and higher marketing costs. Operating Income from Linear Networks Operating income increased 1%, to $8,518 million from $8,407 million due to increases at Broadcasting and Cable and higher income from our equity investees, partially offset by a decrease at the International Channels. The following table provides supplemental revenue and operating income detail for Linear Networks: Direct-to-Consumer Operating results for Direct-to-Consumer are as follows: Revenues The increase in subscription fees reflected increases of 20% from higher subscribers, due to growth at Disney+, Hulu and ESPN+, and 9% from higher average rates due to increases in retail pricing at Disney+ and Hulu, partially offset by a decrease of 2% from an unfavorable foreign exchange impact. Advertising revenue growth reflected increases of 7% from higher rates due to an increase at Hulu, and to a lesser extent, at Disney+, and 4% from higher impressions due to increases at Disney+, ESPN+ and Hulu. The increase in impressions at Disney+ was primarily due to airing the ICC T20 World Cup and ACC Asia Cup in the current year, neither of which were aired in the prior year. 39 The decrease in TV/SVOD distribution and other revenue was due to the absence of Disney+ Premier Access revenues in the current year compared to revenues for Black Widow , Raya and the Last Dragon, Jungle Cruise and Cruella in the prior year. To a lesser extent, the decrease also reflected lower UFC pay-per-view fees due to lower average buys per event. The following table presents additional information about our Disney+, ESPN+ and Hulu product offerings (1) . Paid subscribers (2) as of: Average Monthly Revenue Per Paid Subscriber (5) for the fiscal year ended: (1) In the U.S., Disney+, ESPN+ and Hulu SVOD Only are each offered as a standalone service or as a package that includes all three services (the SVOD Bundle). Effective December 21, 2021, Hulu Live TV + SVOD includes Disney+ and ESPN+ (the new Hulu Live TV + SVOD offering), whereas previously, Hulu Live TV + SVOD was offered as a standalone service or with Disney+ and ESPN+ as optional additions (the old Hulu Live TV + SVOD offering). Effective March 15, 2022, Hulu SVOD Only is also offered with Disney+ as an optional add-on. Disney+ is available in more than 150 countries and territories outside the U.S. and Canada. In India and certain other Southeast Asian countries, the service is branded Disney+ Hotstar. In certain Latin American countries, we offer Disney+ as well as Star+, a general entertainment SVOD service, which is available on a standalone basis or together with Disney+ (Combo+). Depending on the market, our services can be purchased on our websites, through third-party platforms/apps or via wholesale arrangements. (2) Reflects subscribers for which we recognized subscription revenue. Subscribers cease to be a paid subscriber as of their effective cancellation date or as a result of a failed payment method. Subscribers to the SVOD Bundle are counted as a paid subscriber for each service included in the SVOD Bundle and subscribers to the Hulu Live TV + SVOD offerings are counted as one paid subscriber for each of the Hulu Live TV + SVOD, Disney+ and ESPN+ offerings. A Hulu SVOD Only subscriber that adds Disney+ is counted as one paid subscriber for each of the Hulu SVOD Only and Disney+ offerings. In Latin America, if a subscriber has either the standalone Disney+ or Star+ service or subscribes to Combo+, the subscriber is counted as one Disney+ paid subscriber. Subscribers include those 40 who receive a service through wholesale arrangements including those for which we receive a fee for the distribution of the service to each subscriber of an existing content distribution tier. When we aggregate the total number of paid subscribers across our DTC streaming services, we refer to them as paid subscriptions. (3) Includes the Disney+ service outside the U.S. and Canada and the Star+ service in Latin America. (4) Total may not equal the sum of the column due to rounding. (5) Average monthly revenue per paid subscriber is calculated based on the average of the monthly average paid subscribers for each month in the period. The monthly average paid subscribers is calculated as the sum of the beginning of the month and end of the month paid subscriber count, divided by two. Disney+ average monthly revenue per paid subscriber is calculated using a daily average of paid subscribers for the period. Revenue includes subscription fees, advertising (excluding revenue earned from selling advertising spots to other Company businesses) and premium and feature add-on revenue but excludes Premier Access and Pay-Per-View revenue. The average revenue per paid subscriber is net of discounts on offerings that carry more than one service. Revenue is allocated to each service based on the relative retail price of each service on a standalone basis. Revenue for the new Hulu Live TV + SVOD offering is allocated to the SVOD services based on the wholesale price of the SVOD Bundle. In general, wholesale arrangements have a lower average monthly revenue per paid subscriber than subscribers that we acquire directly or through third-party platforms. The average monthly revenue per paid subscriber for domestic Disney+ was comparable to the prior year, as an increase in retail pricing and a lower mix of wholesale subscribers was essentially offset by a higher mix of subscribers to multi-product offerings. The average monthly revenue per paid subscriber for international Disney+ (excluding Disney+ Hotstar) increased from $5.31 to $6.10 due to increases in retail pricing, partially offset by an unfavorable foreign exchange impact. The average monthly revenue per paid subscriber for Disney+ Hotstar increased from $0.68 to $0.88 driven by higher per-subscriber advertising revenue and increases in retail pricing, partially offset by a higher mix of wholesale subscribers. The average monthly revenue per paid subscriber for ESPN+ increased from $4.57 to $4.80 primarily due to an increase in retail pricing, a lower mix of annual subscribers and higher per-subscriber advertising revenue, partially offset by a higher mix of subscribers to multi-product offerings. The average monthly revenue per paid subscriber for the Hulu SVOD Only service decreased from $12.86 to $12.72 driven by lower per-subscriber advertising revenue, a higher mix of subscribers to multi-product offerings and, to a lesser extent, to promotional offerings, partially offset by an increase in retail pricing. The average monthly revenue per paid subscriber for the Hulu Live TV + SVOD service increased from $81.35 to $87.62 driven by an increase in retail pricing and higher per-subscriber advertising revenue, partially offset by a higher mix of subscribers to multi-product offerings. Costs and Expenses Operating expenses are as follows: The increase in programming and production costs at Disney+ was due to more content provided on the service and, to a lesser extent, higher average cost programming, which reflected an increased mix of original content. The increase in programming and production costs at Hulu was due to more content provided on the service and higher subscriber-based fees for programming the Live TV service, which reflected rate increases and an increase in the number of subscribers. The increase in programming and production costs at ESPN+ and other was due to new NHL programming and higher rights costs for soccer and golf programming. 41 Other operating expenses increased due to higher technology and distribution costs at Disney+ reflecting growth in existing markets and, to a lesser extent, expansion to new markets. Selling, general, administrative and other costs increased $1,325 million, to $5,760 million from $4,435 million, due to higher marketing costs at Disney+ and Hulu. Depreciation and amortization increased $44 million, to $373 million from $329 million, primarily due to increased investment in technology assets at Disney+. Operating Loss from Direct-to-Consumer Operating loss from Direct-to-Consumer increased $2,336 million, to $4,015 million from $1,679 million due to a higher loss at Disney+ and, to a lesser extent, lower operating income at Hulu and a higher loss at ESPN+. Content Sales/Licensing and Other Operating results for Content Sales/Licensing and Other are as follows: Revenues The decrease in TV/SVOD distribution revenue reflected lower sales volumes, which included the impact from the shift from licensing our content to third parties to distributing it on our DTC streaming services. The increase in theatrical distribution revenue was due to more titles released in the current year compared to the prior year and revenue in the current year from the co-production of Marvel’s Spider-Man: No Way Home . Although COVID-19 continues to impact our theatrical distribution business in certain markets, the impact in fiscal 2021 was more significant due to theater closures and capacity restrictions in many territories in which we operate. Titles released in the current year included Doctor Strange In The Multiverse of Madness , Thor: Love and Thunder , Eternals , Encanto and Lightyear. Titles released in the prior year included Shang-Chi & The Legend of The Ten Rings , Black Widow and Free Guy . The decrease in home entertainment revenue was due to lower unit sales despite the benefit of more new release titles in the current year. Net effective pricing was comparable to the prior year as lower unit pricing was offset by a higher mix of new release titles, which have a higher sales price than catalog titles. The increase in other revenue was due to more stage play performances in the current year as productions were generally shut down in the prior year due to COVID-19. Operating expenses are as follows: The increase in programming and production costs was due to higher production cost amortization, driven by more theatrical releases, and, to a lesser extent, higher film cost impairments. Higher cost of goods sold and distribution costs were due to the increased number of stage play performances in the current year. 42 Selling, general, administrative and other costs increased $675 million, to $2,638 million from $1,963 million, due to higher theatrical marketing costs as more titles were released in the current year compared to the prior year. Operating Income from Content Sales/Licensing and Other Operating income from Content Sales/Licensing and Other decreased $854 million, to a loss of $287 million from income of $567 million, primarily due to lower TV/SVOD distribution results, higher film cost impairments and decreases in home entertainment and theatrical distribution results, partially offset by higher stage play results. Items Excluded from Segment Operating Income Related to Disney Media and Entertainment Distribution The following table presents supplemental information for items related to DMED that are excluded from segment operating income: (1) In the current year, amortization of step-up on film and television costs was $634 million and amortization of intangible assets was $1,699 million. In the prior year, amortization of step-up on film and television costs was $ 646 million and amortization of intangible assets was $1,749 million. (2) The current year includes impairments of assets related to our Russian businesses. The prior year includes impairments and severance costs related to the closure of an animation studio and severance costs and contract termination charges in connection with the integration of TFCF. Disney Parks, Experiences and Products Operating results for DPEP are as follows: 43 COVID-19 Revenues at DPEP benefited from fewer closures and operating capacity restrictions in fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021 as a result of COVID-19. The following table summarizes the approximate number of weeks of operations in the current and prior year: Revenues The increase in theme park admissions revenue was due to attendance growth and higher average per capita ticket revenue. Higher attendance reflected increases at Disneyland Resort, Walt Disney World Resort and, to a lesser extent, Disneyland Paris, partially offset by a decrease at Shanghai Disney Resort. Growth in average per capita ticket revenue was due to the introduction of Genie+ and Lightning Lane at our domestic parks in the first quarter of the current fiscal year and higher average ticket prices at Walt Disney World Resort and Disneyland Paris, partially offset by lower average ticket prices at Disneyland Resort and Shanghai Disney Resort. Parks & Experiences merchandise, food and beverage revenue growth was due to increases of 82% from higher volumes and 9% from higher average guest spending. Growth in resorts and vacations revenue was primarily due to increases of 51% from higher occupied hotel room nights, 32% from an increase in passenger cruise days and 17% from higher average daily hotel room rates. Merchandise licensing and retail revenue was comparable to the prior year, as a decrease of 7% from retail was offset by an increase of 7% from merchandise licensing. The decrease in retail revenues was due to the closure of a substantial number of Disney-branded retail stores in North America and Europe in the second half of fiscal 2021. The revenue growth at merchandise licensing was primarily due to higher sales of merchandise based on Mickey and Friends, Star Wars, Encanto , Spider-Man and Disney Princesses, partially offset by a decrease in revenues from merchandise based on Frozen. The increase in parks licensing and other revenue was primarily due to higher sponsorship revenues and an increase in royalties from Tokyo Disney Resort. The following table presents supplemental park and hotel statistics: (1) Per capita guest spending growth rate and per room guest spending growth rate exclude the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. (2) Attendance is used to analyze volume trends at our theme parks and is based on the number of unique daily entries, i.e. a person visiting multiple theme parks in a single day is counted only once. Our attendance count includes complimentary entries but excludes entries by children under the age of three. 44 (3) Per capita guest spending is used to analyze guest spending trends and is defined as total revenue from ticket sales and sales of food, beverage and merchandise in our theme parks, divided by total theme park attendance. (4) Occupancy is used to analyze the usage of available capacity at hotels and is defined as the number of room nights occupied by guests as a percentage of available hotel room nights. (5) Available hotel room nights are defined as the total number of room nights that are available at our hotels and at DVC properties located at our theme parks and resorts that are not utilized by DVC members. Available hotel room nights include rooms temporarily taken out of service. (6) Per room guest spending is used to analyze guest spending at our hotels and is defined as total revenue from room rentals and sales of food, beverage and merchandise at our hotels, divided by total occupied hotel room nights. Costs and Expenses Operating expenses are as follows: The increases in operating labor, cost of goods sold and distribution costs and other operating expenses were due to higher volumes, while the increase in infrastructure costs was due to higher volumes and increased technology spending. Selling, general, administrative and other costs increased $517 million from $2,886 million to $3,403 million due to higher marketing spend and inflation. Depreciation and amortization increased $74 million from $2,377 million to $2,451 million, primarily due to new attractions at our domestic parks and resorts. Segment Operating Income Segment operating income increased $7,434 million, to $7,905 million due to growth at our domestic parks and experiences and, to a lesser extent, at our international parks and resorts and consumer products business. The following table presents supplemental revenue and operating income detail for the Parks, Experiences and Products segment: 45 Items Excluded from Segment Operating Income Related to Parks, Experiences and Products The following table presents supplemental information for items related to DPEP that are excluded from segment operating income: (1) The prior year includes asset impairments and severance costs related to the closure of a substantial number of our Disney-branded retail stores in North America and Europe and severance costs related to other workforce reductions. CORPORATE AND UNALLOCATED SHARED EXPENSES Corporate and unallocated shared expenses are as follows: The increase in corporate and unallocated shared expenses was driven by higher compensation and human resource-related costs. RESTRUCTURING ACTIVITIES See Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the Company’s restructuring activities. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES The change in cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash is as follows: Operating Activities Continuing operations Cash provided by operating activities of $6.0 billion for fiscal 2022 increased 8% or $436 million compared to $5.6 billion in fiscal 2021 due to higher operating cash flow at DPEP and, to a lesser extent, lower income tax payments and pension contributions, partially offset by lower operating cash flow at DMED and, to a lesser extent, a partial payment for the Content License Early Termination. The increase in operating cash flow at DPEP was due to higher operating cash receipts driven by higher revenue, partially offset by an increase in operating cash disbursements due to higher operating expenses. The decrease in operating cash flow at DMED was due to higher operating cash disbursements and higher spending on film and television productions, partially offset by higher operating cash receipts. Higher operating cash disbursements were driven by increased operating expenses while higher operating cash receipts were due to revenue growth. 46 Depreciation expense is as follows: Amortization of intangible assets is as follows: Produced and licensed content costs DMED incurs costs to produce and license film, episodic television and other content. Production costs include spend on content internally produced at our studios such as live-action and animated films, episodic series, specials, shorts and theatrical stage plays. Production costs also include original content commissioned from third-party studios. Programming costs include content rights licensed from third parties for use on the Company’s Linear Networks and DTC streaming services. Programming assets are generally recorded when the programming becomes available to us with a corresponding increase in programming liabilities. The Company’s production and programming activity for fiscal 2022 and 2021 are as follows: The Company currently expects its fiscal 2023 spend on produced and licensed content, including sports rights, to be in the low $30 billion range. See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the Company’s contractual commitments to acquire sports and broadcast programming. 47 Commitments and guarantees The Company has various commitments and guarantees, such as long-term leases, purchase commitments and other executory contracts, that are disclosed in the footnotes to the financial statements. See Notes 14 and 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding these commitments. Legal and Tax Matters As disclosed in Notes 9 and 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company has exposure for certain tax and legal matters. Investing Activities Continuing operations Investing activities consist principally of investments in parks, resorts and other property and acquisition and divestiture activity. The Company’s investments in parks, resorts and other property for fiscal 2022 and 2021 are as follows: Capital expenditures at DMED primarily reflect investments in technology and in facilities and equipment for expanding and upgrading broadcast centers, production facilities and television station facilities. Capital expenditures at DPEP are principally for theme park and resort expansion, new attractions, cruise ships, capital improvements and systems infrastructure. The increase in capital expenditures at our domestic parks and resorts in fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021 was due to cruise ship fleet expansion. Capital expenditures at Corporate primarily reflect investments in facilities, information technology infrastructure and equipment. The increase in fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021 was due to higher spending on facilities. The Company currently expects its fiscal 2023 capital expenditures will be up to approximately $6.7 billion compared to fiscal 2022 capital expenditures of $4.9 billion. The increase in capital expenditures is due to higher spending across the enterprise. Other Investing Activities Cash provided by other investing activities of $ 407 million in fiscal 2021 reflects proceeds from the sales of investments. Financing Activities Continuing operations Cash used in financing activities was $4.7 billion in fiscal 2022 compared to $4.4 billion in fiscal 2021. Cash used in financing activities in fiscal 2022 was due to a reduction in borrowings. The increase in cash used in financing activities in fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021 reflected a higher reduction in net borrowings ($4.0 billion in fiscal 2022 compared to $3.7 billion in fiscal 2021) and lower proceeds from the exercise of stock options ($0.1 billion in fiscal 2022 compared to $0.4 billion in fiscal 2021). In addition, cash used in financing activities in fiscal 2021 included a $0.4 billion purchase of a redeemable noncontrolling interest. 48 Borrowings activities and other During the year ended October 1, 2022, the Company’s borrowing activity was as follows: (1) Borrowings and reductions of borrowings are reported net. (2) The other activity is primarily due to the amortization of purchase accounting adjustments and debt issuance fees. (3) See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding commitments to fund the Asia Theme Parks. (4) The other activity is due to market value adjustments for debt with qualifying hedges. See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the Company’s bank facilities and debt maturities. The Company may use operating cash flows, commercial paper borrowings up to the amount of its unused $12.25 billion bank facilities and incremental term debt issuances to retire or refinance other borrowings before or as they come due. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a summary of the Company’s put/call agreement with NBCU. The Company did not declare or pay a dividend or repurchase any of its shares in fiscal 2022 or 2021. The Company’s operating cash flow and access to the capital markets can be impacted by factors outside of its control, including COVID-19, which had an adverse impact on the Company’s operating cash flows in fiscal 2021 and, to a lesser extent, fiscal 2022. We believe that the Company’s financial condition is strong and that its cash balances, other liquid assets, operating cash flows, access to debt and equity capital markets and borrowing capacity under current bank facilities, taken together, provide adequate resources to fund ongoing operating requirements and upcoming debt maturities as well as future capital expenditures related to the expansion of existing businesses and development of new projects. In addition, the Company could undertake other measures to ensure sufficient liquidity, such as continuing to not declare dividends (the Company did not pay a dividend with respect to fiscal 2021 operations and has not declared or paid a dividend with respect to fiscal 2022 operations); raising financing; suspending or reducing capital spending; reducing film and television content investments; or implementing furloughs or reductions in force. The Company’s borrowing costs can also be impacted by short- and long-term debt ratings assigned by nationally recognized rating agencies, which are based, in significant part, on the Company’s performance as measured by certain credit metrics such as leverage and interest coverage ratios. As of October 1, 2022, Moody’s Investors Service’s long- and short-term debt ratings for the Company were A2 and P-1 (Stable), respectively, Standard and Poor’s long- and short-term debt ratings for the Company were BBB+ and A-2 (Positive), respectively, and Fitch’s long- and short-term debt ratings for the Company were A- and F2 (Stable), respectively. The Company’s bank facilities contain only one financial covenant, relating to interest coverage of three times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, including both intangible amortization and amortization of our film and television production and programming costs. On October 1, 2022, the Company met this covenant by a significant margin. The Company’s bank facilities also specifically exclude certain entities, including the Asia Theme Parks, from any representations, covenants or events of default. SUPPLEMENTAL GUARANTOR FINANCIAL INFORMATION On March 20, 2019, as part of the acquisition of TFCF, The Walt Disney Company (“TWDC”) became the ultimate parent of TWDC Enterprises 18 Corp. (formerly known as The Walt Disney Company) (“Legacy Disney”). Legacy Disney and TWDC are collectively referred to as “Obligor Group”, and individually, as a “Guarantor”. Concurrent with the close of the TFCF acquisition, $16.8 billion of TFCF’s assumed public debt (which then constituted 96% of such debt) was exchanged for senior notes of TWDC (the “exchange notes”) issued pursuant to an exemption from registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), pursuant to an Indenture, dated as of March 20, 2019, between TWDC, Legacy Disney, as guarantor, and Citibank, N.A., as trustee (the “TWDC Indenture”) and guaranteed by Legacy Disney. On November 26, 2019, $14.0 billion of the outstanding exchange notes were exchanged for new senior notes of TWDC registered under the Securities Act, issued pursuant to the TWDC Indenture and guaranteed by Legacy Disney. In addition, contemporaneously with 49 the closing of the March 20, 2019 exchange offer, TWDC entered into a guarantee of the registered debt securities issued by Legacy Disney under the Indenture dated as of September 24, 2001 between Legacy Disney and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee (the “2001 Trustee”) (as amended by the first supplemental indenture among Legacy Disney, as issuer, TWDC, as guarantor, and the 2001 Trustee, as trustee). Other subsidiaries of the Company do not guarantee the registered debt securities of either TWDC or Legacy Disney (such subsidiaries are referred to as the “non-Guarantors”). The par value and carrying value of total outstanding and guaranteed registered debt securities of the Obligor Group at October 1, 2022 was as follows: The guarantees by TWDC and Legacy Disney are full and unconditional and cover all payment obligations arising under the guaranteed registered debt securities. The guarantees may be released and discharged upon (i) as a general matter, the indebtedness for borrowed money of the consolidated subsidiaries of TWDC in aggregate constituting no more than 10% of all consolidated indebtedness for borrowed money of TWDC and its subsidiaries (subject to certain exclusions), (ii) upon the sale, transfer or disposition of all or substantially all of the equity interests or all or substantially all, or substantially as an entirety, the assets of Legacy Disney to a third party, and (iii) other customary events constituting a discharge of a guarantor’s obligations. In addition, in the case of Legacy Disney’s guarantee of registered debt securities issued by TWDC, Legacy Disney may be released and discharged from its guarantee at any time Legacy Disney is not a borrower, issuer or guarantor under certain material bank facilities or any debt securities. Operations are conducted almost entirely through the Company’s subsidiaries. Accordingly, the Obligor Group’s cash flow and ability to service its debt, including the public debt, are dependent upon the earnings of the Company’s subsidiaries and the distribution of those earnings to the Obligor Group, whether by dividends, loans or otherwise. Holders of the guaranteed registered debt securities have a direct claim only against the Obligor Group. Set forth below are summarized financial information for the Obligor Group on a combined basis after elimination of (i) intercompany transactions and balances between TWDC and Legacy Disney and (ii) equity in the earnings from and investments in any subsidiary that is a non-Guarantor. This summarized financial information has been prepared and presented pursuant to the Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation S-X Rule 13-01, “Financial Disclosures about Guarantors and Issuers of Guaranteed Securities” and is not intended to present the financial position or results of operations of the Obligor Group in accordance with U.S. GAAP. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES We believe that the application of the following accounting policies, which are important to our financial position and results of operations, require significant judgments and estimates on the part of management. For a summary of our significant accounting policies, including the accounting policies discussed below, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Produced and Acquired/Licensed Content Costs We amortize and test for impairment capitalized film and television production costs based on whether the content is predominantly monetized individually or as a group. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. 50 Production costs that are classified as individual are amortized based upon the ratio of the current period’s revenues to the estimated remaining total revenues (Ultimate Revenues). With respect to produced films intended for theatrical release, the most sensitive factor affecting our estimate of Ultimate Revenues is theatrical performance. Revenues derived from other markets subsequent to the theatrical release are generally highly correlated with theatrical performance. Theatrical performance varies primarily based upon the public interest and demand for a particular film, the popularity of competing films at the time of release and the level of marketing effort. Upon a film’s release and determination of the theatrical performance, the Company’s estimates of revenues from succeeding windows and markets, which may include imputed license fees for content that is used on our DTC streaming services, are revised based on historical relationships and an analysis of current market trends. With respect to capitalized television production costs that are classified as individual, the most sensitive factors affecting estimates of Ultimate Revenues are program ratings of the content on our licensees’ platforms. Program ratings, which are an indication of market acceptance, directly affect the program’s ability to generate advertising and subscriber revenues and are correlated with the license fees we can charge for the content in subsequent windows and for subsequent seasons. Ultimate Revenues are reassessed each reporting period and the impact of any changes on amortization of production cost is accounted for as if the change occurred at the beginning of the current fiscal year. If our estimate of Ultimate Revenues decreases, amortization of costs may be accelerated or result in an impairment. Conversely, if our estimate of Ultimate Revenues increases, cost amortization may be slowed. Produced content costs that are part of a group and acquired/licensed content costs are amortized based on projected usage typically resulting in an accelerated or straight-line amortization pattern. The determination of projected usage requires judgment and is reviewed on a regular basis for changes. Adjustments to projected usage are applied prospectively in the period of the change. For example, beginning in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2022, for certain content, we are accelerating the rate of amortization in early periods, slowing the rate in later periods and have adjusted the useful life based on historical and projected usage patterns. The most sensitive factors affecting projected usage are historical and estimated viewing patterns. If projected usage changes we may need to accelerate or slow the recognition of amortization expense. For content that is predominantly monetized as a group, the aggregate unamortized costs of the group are compared to the present value of the discounted cash flows using the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are independent of other produced and licensed content. If the unamortized costs exceed the present value of discounted cash flows, an impairment charge is recorded for the excess and allocated to individual titles based on the relative carrying value of each title in the group. If there are no plans to continue to use an individual film or television program that is part of a group, the unamortized cost of the individual title is written-off immediately. Licensed content is included as part of the group within which it is monetized for purposes of assessing recoverability. The amortization of multi-year sports rights is based on projections of revenues for each season relative to projections of total revenues over the contract period (estimated relative value). Projected revenues include advertising revenue and an allocation of affiliate revenue. If the annual contractual payments related to each season approximate each season’s estimated relative value, we expense the related contractual payments during the applicable season. If estimated relative values by year were to change significantly, amortization of our sports rights costs may be accelerated or slowed. Revenue Recognition The Company has revenue recognition policies for its various operating segments that are appropriate to the circumstances of each business. Refer to Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for our revenue recognition policies. Pension and Postretirement Medical Plan Actuarial Assumptions The Company’s pension and postretirement medical benefit obligations and related costs are calculated using a number of actuarial assumptions. Two critical assumptions, the discount rate and the expected return on plan assets, are important elements of expense and/or liability measurement, which we evaluate annually. Other assumptions include the healthcare cost trend rate and employee demographic factors such as retirement patterns, mortality, turnover and rate of compensation increase. The discount rate enables us to state expected future cash payments for benefits as a present value on the measurement date. A lower discount rate increases the present value of benefit obligations and increases pension and postretirement medical expense. The guideline for setting this rate is a high-quality long-term corporate bond rate. We increased our discount rate to 5.44 % at the end of fiscal 2022 from 2.88 % at the end of fiscal 2021 to reflect market interest rate conditions at our fiscal 2022 year-end measurement date. The Company’s discount rate was determined by considering yield curves constructed of a large population of high-quality corporate bonds and reflects the matching of the plans’ liability cash flows to the yield curves. A one percentage point decrease in the assumed discount rate would increase total benefit expense for fiscal 2023 by approximately $ 242 million and would increase the projected benefit obligation at October 1, 2022 by approximately $2.3 billion. A one percentage point increase in the assumed discount rate would decrease total benefit expense and the projected benefit obligation by approximately $ 59 million and $2.0 billion, respectively. 51 To determine the expected long-term rate of return on the plan assets, we consider the current and expected asset allocation, as well as historical and expected returns on each plan asset class. Our expected return on plan assets is 7.00 %. A lower expected rate of return on plan assets will increase pension and postretirement medical expense. A one percentage point change in the long-term asset return assumption would impact fiscal 2023 annual expense by approximately $ 172 million. Goodwill, Other Intangible Assets, Long-Lived Assets and Investments The Company is required to test goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis and if current events or circumstances require, on an interim basis. The Company performs its annual test of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment in its fiscal fourth quarter. Goodwill is allocated to various reporting units, which are an operating segment or one level below the operating segment. To test goodwill for impairment, the Company first performs a qualitative assessment to determine if it is more likely than not that the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value. If it is, a quantitative assessment is required. Alternatively, the Company may bypass the qualitative assessment and perform a quantitative impairment test. The qualitative assessment requires the consideration of factors such as recent market transactions, macroeconomic conditions, and changes in projected future cash flows of the reporting unit. The quantitative assessment compares the fair value of each goodwill reporting unit to its carrying amount, and to the extent the carrying amount exceeds the fair value, an impairment of goodwill is recognized for the excess up to the amount of goodwill allocated to the reporting unit. In fiscal 2022, the Company bypassed the qualitative test and performed a quantitative assessment of goodwill for impairment. The impairment test for goodwill requires judgment related to the identification of reporting units, the assignment of assets and liabilities to reporting units including goodwill, and the determination of fair value of the reporting units. To determine the fair value of our reporting units, we apply what we believe to be the most appropriate valuation methodology for each of our reporting units. We generally use a present value technique (discounted cash flows) corroborated by market multiples when available and as appropriate. The discounted cash flow analyses are sensitive to our estimates of future revenue growth and margins for these businesses as well as the discount rates used to calculate the present value of future cash flows. In times of adverse economic conditions in the global economy, the Company’s long-term cash flow projections are subject to a greater degree of uncertainty than usual. We believe our estimates are consistent with how a marketplace participant would value our reporting units. If we had established different reporting units or utilized different valuation methodologies or assumptions, the impairment test results could differ, and we could be required to record impairment charges. To test its other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment, the Company first performs a qualitative assessment to determine if it is more likely than not that the carrying amount of each of its indefinite-lived intangible assets exceeds its fair value. If it is, a quantitative assessment is required. Alternatively, the Company may bypass the qualitative assessment and perform a quantitative impairment test. The qualitative assessment requires the consideration of factors such as recent market transactions, macroeconomic conditions, and changes in projected future cash flows. The quantitative assessment compares the fair value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset to its carrying amount. If the carrying amount of an indefinite-lived intangible asset exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized for the excess. Fair values of indefinite-lived intangible assets are determined based on discounted cash flows or appraised values, as appropriate. The Company tests long-lived assets, including amortizable intangible assets, for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances (triggering events) indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Once a triggering event has occurred, the impairment test employed is based on whether the Company’s intent is to hold the asset for continued use or to hold the asset for sale. The impairment test for assets held for use requires a comparison of the estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated over the useful life of the significant assets of an asset group to the carrying amount of the asset group. An asset group is generally established by identifying the lowest level of cash flows generated by a group of assets that are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and could include assets used across multiple businesses. If the carrying amount of an asset group exceeds the estimated undiscounted future cash flows, an impairment would be measured as the difference between the fair value of the asset group and the carrying amount of the asset group. For assets held for sale, to the extent the carrying amount is greater than the asset’s fair value less costs to sell, an impairment loss is recognized for the difference. Determining whether a long-lived asset is impaired requires various estimates and assumptions, including whether a triggering event has occurred, the identification of asset groups, estimates of future cash flows and the discount rate used to determine fair values. 52 The Company has investments in equity securities. For equity securities that do not have a readily determinable fair value, we consider forecasted financial performance of the investee companies, as well as volatility inherent in the external markets for these investments. If these forecasts are not met, impairment charges may be recorded. The Company recorded non-cash impairment charges of $ 0.2 billion and $ 0.3 billion in fiscal 2022 and 2021, respectively. The fiscal 2022 charges primarily related to our businesses in Russia. The fiscal 2021 charges primarily related to the closure of an animation studio and a substantial number of our Disney-branded retail stores in North America and Europe. Allowance for Credit Losses We evaluate our allowance for credit losses and estimate collectability of accounts receivable based on historical bad debt experience, our assessment of the financial condition of individual companies with which we do business, current market conditions, and reasonable and supportable forecasts of future economic conditions. In times of economic turmoil, including COVID-19, our estimates and judgments with respect to the collectability of our receivables are subject to greater uncertainty than in more stable periods. If our estimate of uncollectible accounts is too low, costs and expenses may increase in future periods, and if it is too high, costs and expenses may decrease in future periods. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional discussion. Contingencies and Litigation We are currently involved in certain legal proceedings and, as required, have accrued estimates of the probable and estimable losses for the resolution of these proceedings. These estimates are based upon an analysis of potential results, assuming a combination of litigation and settlement strategies and have been developed in consultation with outside counsel as appropriate. From time to time, we are also involved in other contingent matters for which we accrue estimates for a probable and estimable loss. It is possible, however, that future results of operations for any particular quarterly or annual period could be materially affected by changes in our assumptions or the effectiveness of our strategies related to legal proceedings or our assumptions regarding other contingent matters. See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more detailed information on litigation exposure. Income Tax As a matter of course, the Company is regularly audited by federal, state and foreign tax authorities. From time to time, these audits result in proposed assessments. Our determinations regarding the recognition of income tax benefits are made in consultation with outside tax and legal counsel, where appropriate, and are based upon the technical merits of our tax positions in consideration of applicable tax statutes and related interpretations and precedents and upon the expected outcome of proceedings (or negotiations) with taxing and legal authorities. The tax benefits ultimately realized by the Company may differ from those recognized in our future financial statements based on a number of factors, including the Company’s decision to settle rather than litigate a matter, relevant legal precedent related to similar matters and the Company’s success in supporting its filing positions with taxing authorities. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding new accounting pronouncements.