********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

The section below discusses the most significant risk factors that may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. As set forth below, we believe that the risks we face generally fall into the following categories: • risks related to our business and operations; • risks related to the regulatory environment; • risks related to our capital structure and market conditions; • risks related to other events; • risks related to tax, including REIT-related risks; and • general risks. Risks Related to Our Business and Operations The COVID-19 pandemic and health and safety measures intended to reduce its spread have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, our business, results of operations and financial condition. Global health concerns and efforts to reduce the spread of COVID-19 resulted in travel bans, quarantines, “shelter-in-place” and similar orders restricting the activities of individuals outside of their homes, as well as business limitations and shutdowns of businesses deemed “non-essential.” Although some of these restrictions have been lifted or scaled back, ongoing resurgences of COVID-19 infections, including new strains, have resulted in the re-imposition of certain restrictions and may lead to other restrictions being re-implemented to reduce the spread of COVID-19. In many cases, these measures have limited and continue to limit the ability of our tenants, operators and borrowers to conduct their normal businesses operations and comply with their rent and other financial obligations to us and, because these restrictions may remain in place for a significant amount of time, we expect they will continue to place a substantial strain on the business operations of many of our tenants, operators and borrowers. Senior housing facilities have been disproportionately impacted by COVID and COVID-related fatalities. Within our SHOP and CCRC properties, average occupancy declined from 83.2% and 85.6%, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2019, to 75.3% and 81.4%, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2020 and we expect occupancy rates will continue to decline for at least the duration of the COVID-19 pandemic due to a reduction in, or in some cases prohibitions on, new tenant move-ins due to “shelter-in-place” and local health department orders, stricter move-in criteria, lower inquiry volumes, and reduced in-person tours, as well as incidences of COVID-19 outbreaks at our facilities or the perception that outbreaks may occur. Outbreaks, which directly affect our residents and the employees at our senior housing facilities, have and could continue to materially and adversely disrupt operations. These outbreaks could cause significant reputational harm to us and our operators and could adversely affect demand for senior housing for an extended period. Our senior housing property operators are also facing material cost increases as a result of higher staffing hours and compensation, as well as increased usage and inventory of critical medical supplies and personal protective equipment. At our SHOP and CCRC facilities, we bear these material cost increases. The pandemic has also delayed the deployment of capital improvements and expenditures, which could adversely impact operations at our senior housing facilities. We temporarily suspended development and redevelopment projects in the greater San Francisco and Boston areas as a result of the “shelter-in-place” orders and local, state and federal directives. Our operators also temporarily suspended development and redevelopment across our senior housing portfolio for the same reasons around the end of the first quarter of 2020, except for certain life safety and essential projects. Although these development and redevelopment projects restarted with infection control protocols in place, future local, state or federal orders could cause us to re-suspend the work. Furthermore, construction workers are following applicable guidelines, including appropriate social distancing, limitations on large group gatherings in close proximity, and increased sanitation efforts, which has slowed the pace of construction. These protective actions do not, however, eliminate the risk that outbreaks caused or spread by such activities may occur and impact our tenants, operators and residents. In addition, our planned dispositions may not occur within the expected time or at all because of buyer terminations or withdrawals related to the pandemic, capital constraints or other factors relating to the pandemic. 13 Within our medical office portfolio, many physician practices temporarily discontinued outpatient procedures and nonessential surgeries in 2020 due to health and safety measures, which negatively impacted their cash flows. During the second quarter of 2020, we implemented a deferred rent program primarily for May and June 2020 that was limited to certain non-health system and non-hospital tenants in good standing, which resulted in reduced cash flow in the periods in which such deferrals were granted, but increased our cash flow in the period in which such deferrals were repaid. We may also implement deferred rent programs for future periods. In 2020, we experienced a slowdown in new leasing during the government-mandated shutdown. We expect that overall leasing activity will be negatively impacted through the duration of the COVID-19 pandemic. Within our life science portfolio, we may experience a decline in new leasing activity due to the COVID-19 pandemic. In addition, as a result of governmental restrictions on business activities, particularly in the greater San Francisco and Boston areas, we temporarily suspended development, redevelopment and tenant improvement projects at many of our life science properties around the end of the first quarter of 2020. Although we were able to restart these projects, future governmental restrictions may re-suspend them or suspend others. We are also experiencing time delays with our development, redevelopment, and tenant improvement projects due to the implementation of health and safety protocols related to social distancing and proper hygiene and sanitization. The COVID-19 pandemic subjects our business and the businesses of our tenants and operators to various risks and uncertainties that have significantly adversely affected and could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition for at least the pendency of the COVID-19 pandemic and possibly longer, including the following: • rent deferrals or delays in rent commencement for tenants may result in a significant decrease in our cash receipts during the period of the deferrals; • material cost increases at our SHOP and CCRC facilities, for which we are responsible; • non-payment of contractual obligations by our tenants or operators, and any limitations on our ability to enforce our lease agreements or management agreements with our tenants or operators, as applicable, as a result of any federal, state or local restrictions on tenant evictions for failure to make contractual rent payments, which may result in higher reserves for bad debt; • our tenants, operators or borrowers becoming insolvent or initiating bankruptcy or similar proceedings, which would adversely affect our ability to collect rent or interest payments from such tenants or borrowers, as applicable, and result in increased costs to us, as well as decreased revenues; • the complete or partial closures of, or other operational issues at, one or more of our properties resulting from government action or directives, which may intensify the risk of rent deferrals or non-payment of contractual obligations by our tenants or operators; • any possession taken of our properties, in whole or in part, by governmental authorities for public purposes in eminent domain proceedings or any government mandate or action that requires the use of our properties for the care and treatment of patients suffering from COVID-19; • the likelihood that we will amend existing lease agreements and existing rental terms, with our tenants, and management agreements and existing fee structures, with our RIDEA operators, particularly in our senior housing portfolio, which would have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations; • increased costs or delays that may result if we determine to reposition or transition any of our currently-leased properties to another tenant or operator, which could adversely impact our revenues and results of operations; • the impact on our results of operations and financial condition resulting from (i) suspensions or delays in development and redevelopment activities and tenant improvement projects, including due to local, state and federal orders or guidelines, delays or increased costs caused by slow-downs in construction as a result of implementing social distancing and other health and safety protocols, or delays or increased costs caused by a shortage of construction materials or labor, as well as potential postponement of rent commencement dates due to delays in tenant improvement projects, and (ii) a decrease in acquisitions and dispositions of properties compared to historical levels; • reduced valuations for properties in our portfolio that we wish to sell, and potential delayed transaction timing due to government delays or government mandated COVID-related access restrictions; • the need to provide seller financing in order to dispose of certain properties in our portfolio at acceptable prices; • the impact on our tenants or operators, particularly in our senior housing portfolio, of lawsuits related to COVID-19 outbreaks that have occurred or may occur at our properties and the potential that insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover any potential losses; 14 • material increases in our insurance costs and larger deductibles or the inability to obtain insurance at economically reasonable rates; • significant expenses likely to be incurred in connection with our pursuit of creditor rights resulting from operator and tenant defaults and insolvency; • a potential downgrade of our issuer and long-term credit rating following the change in our outlook from “stable” to “negative” by Moody’s, which could increase our cost of capital and any future debt financing; • refusal or failure by one or more of our lenders under our credit facility to fund their financing commitments to us as a result of lender liquidity and/or viability challenges, which financing commitments we may not be able to replace on favorable terms, or at all; • the likelihood that conditions related to the COVID-19 pandemic may require us to recognize additional impairments of long-lived assets or credit losses related to loans receivable; • the impact on our business if our executive officers, management team or a significant percentage of our employees are unable to continue to work because of illness caused by COVID-19, as well as the significant time and attention devoted by our management team to monitor the COVID-19 pandemic and seek to mitigate its effect on our business; • the impact of negative or adverse publicity associated with COVID outbreaks at our senior housing communities, the cost of responding to such adverse publicity and the potential for heightened regulatory scrutiny caused by it; • the deterioration of state and local economic conditions and job losses, particularly in San Francisco, San Diego and Boston, which may decrease demand for and occupancy levels at our life science properties and cause our rental rates and property values to be negatively impacted; and • the potential for shifts in consumer and business behaviors that fundamentally and adversely affect demand for properties in our portfolio. The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our SHOP and CCRC properties managed in RIDEA structures has had and may continue to have a more significant impact on our results of operations on a relative basis because we receive cash flow from the operations of the property (as compared to only receiving contractual rent from a third-party tenant-operator under a triple-net lease structure), and we also bear all operational risks and liabilities associated with the operation of those properties, other than those arising out of certain actions by our operator, such as gross negligence or willful misconduct. Accordingly, impacts from the COVID-19 pandemic directly affecting our SHOP and CCRC properties, including lower net operating income caused by decreased revenues that may result from declines in occupancy or otherwise, and increased expenses, has had and is expected to continue to have a more direct and immediate impact on our results of operations than such an impact affecting one of our triple-net leased properties in our senior housing portfolio. For example, increased operating expenses at our SHOP and CCRC properties, including due to labor shortages, as well as increased screening and protective measures intended to prevent an outbreak and/or slow the spread of a COVID-19 outbreak, has adversely affected and is expected to continue to adversely affect the cash flow from operations we receive from the affected properties. In addition, our RIDEA operators who are adversely affected by the COVID-19 pandemic may request revisions to their management agreements and existing fee structures in order to reduce the amount of cash from operations that flows directly to us. Because we bear all operational risks and liabilities related to our SHOP and CCRC properties, other than those arising out of certain actions by our operator, such as gross negligence or willful misconduct, we may be directly adversely impacted by potential lawsuits related to COVID-19 outbreaks that have occurred or may occur at those properties, and our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to cover any potential losses. The same factors may also affect our triple net lease tenants and may limit their ability to pay the contractual rent when due. Additionally, the COVID-19 pandemic could increase the magnitude of many of the other risks described herein and elsewhere in this Annual Report may have other adverse effects on our operations that we are not currently able to predict. The COVID-19 pandemic has also resulted in significant volatility in the local, national and global financial markets, and we may be unable to obtain any required financing on favorable terms or on a timely basis or at all. The extent of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business and financial results will depend on future developments, including the duration, severity and spread of the pandemic, ongoing resurgences of COVID-19 in most states, health and safety actions taken to contain its spread, the availability, effectiveness and public usage and acceptance of vaccines, and how quickly and to what extent normal economic and operating conditions can resume within the markets in which we operate, each of which are highly uncertain at this time and outside of our control. Even after the COVID-19 pandemic subsides, we may continue to experience adverse impacts to our business and financial results as a result of its national and global economic impact. The continued adverse impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, results of operations and financial condition could be material. 15 We assume operational risks with respect to our SHOP properties managed in RIDEA structures that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. As the owner of a property under a RIDEA structure, our TRS is ultimately responsible for all operational risks and other liabilities of the property, other than those arising out of certain actions by our operator, such as gross negligence or willful misconduct. Operational risks include, and our resulting revenues therefore depend on, among other things: (i) occupancy rates; (ii) the entrance fees and rental rates charged to residents; (iii) Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement rates, to the extent applicable; (iv) our operators’ reputations and ability to attract and retain residents; (v) general economic conditions and market factors that impact seniors which may be exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic, including the ongoing economic downturn and high unemployment rates; (vi) competition from other senior housing providers; (vii) compliance with federal, state, local and industry-regulated licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations and standards; (viii) litigation involving our properties or residents/patients, including but not limited to litigation related to COVID-19; (ix) the availability and cost of general and professional liability insurance coverage or increases in insurance policy deductibles; and (x) the ability to control operating expenses, which have increased and may continue to increase due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Although the RIDEA structure gives us certain oversight approval rights (e.g., budgets, material contracts, etc.) and the right to review operational and financial reporting information, our operators are ultimately in control of the day-to-day business of the property. As a result, we have limited rights to direct or influence the business or operations of our properties in the SHOP segment and we depend on our operators to operate these properties in a manner that complies with applicable law, minimizes legal risk and maximizes the value of our investment. Failure by our operators to adequately manage these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are required under RIDEA to rely on our operators to oversee and direct these aspects of the properties’ operations to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations. If one or more of our healthcare properties fails to comply with applicable laws and regulations, our TRS would be responsible (except in limited circumstances, such as the gross negligence or willful misconduct of our operators, where we would have a contractual claim against them), which could subject our TRS to penalties including loss or suspension of licenses, certification or accreditation, exclusion from government healthcare programs (i.e., Medicare, Medicaid), administrative sanctions and civil monetary penalties. Some states also reserve the right to sanction affiliates of a licensee when they take administrative action against the licensee. Additionally, when we receive individually identifiable health information relating to residents of our healthcare properties, we are subject to federal and state data privacy and security laws and rules, and could be subject to liability in the event of an audit, complaint, cybersecurity attack or data breach. Furthermore, our TRS has exposure to professional liability claims that could arise out of resident claims, such as quality of care, and the associated litigation costs. Rents received from the TRS in a RIDEA structure are treated as qualifying rents from real property for REIT tax purposes only if (i) they are paid pursuant to a lease of a “qualified healthcare property” and (ii) the operator qualifies as an “eligible independent contractor,” as defined in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”). If either of these requirements is not satisfied, then the rents will not be qualifying rents. Decreases in our tenants’, operators’ or borrowers’ revenues, or increases in their expenses, could affect their ability to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us, and could result in amendments to these obligations that have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition . We have limited control over the success or failure of our tenants’, operators’ and borrowers’ businesses, regardless of whether our relationship is structured as a triple-net lease, a RIDEA lease or as a lender to our tenants. Any of our triple-net tenants or operators under a RIDEA structure may experience a downturn in their business that materially weakens their financial condition. For example, our triple-net tenants and operators under a RIDEA structure have experienced a significant downturn in their businesses due to the COVID-19 pandemic, including as a result of interruptions in their operations, lost revenues, increased costs, financing difficulties and labor shortages. As a result, they may be unable or unwilling to make payments or perform their obligations when due. Although we generally have arrangements and other agreements that give us the right under specified circumstances to terminate a lease, evict a tenant or terminate our operator, or demand immediate repayment of outstanding loan amounts or other obligations to us, we may not be able to enforce such rights or we may determine not to do so if we believe that enforcement of our rights would be more detrimental to our business than seeking alternative approaches. 16 Our senior housing tenants and our SHOP segment under a RIDEA structure primarily depend on private sources for their revenues and the ability of their patients and residents to pay fees. Costs associated with independent and assisted living services are not generally reimbursable under governmental reimbursement programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. Accordingly, our tenants and operators of our SHOP segments depend on attracting seniors with appropriate levels of income and assets, which may be affected by many factors, including: (i) prevailing economic and market trends, including the ongoing economic downturn and high unemployment rates; (ii) consumer confidence; (iii) demographics; (iv) property condition and safety; (v) public perception about such properties; and (vi) social and environmental factors. Consequently, if our tenants or operators on our behalf fail to effectively conduct their operations, or to maintain and improve our properties, it could adversely affect our business reputation as the owner of the properties, as well as the business reputation of our tenants or operators and their ability to attract and retain patients and residents in our properties, which could have a materially adverse effect on our and our tenant’s or operator’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Further, if widespread default or nonpayment of outstanding obligations from a large number of tenants or operators occurs at a time when terminating such agreement or replacing such tenants or operators may be extremely difficult or impossible, including as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, we may elect instead to amend such agreements with such tenants or operators. However, such amendment may be on terms that are less favorable to us than the original agreement and may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. Our senior housing tenants and our SHOP segment under a RIDEA structure also rely on reimbursements from governmental programs for a portion of the revenues from certain properties. Changes in reimbursement policies and other governmental regulation, such as potential changes to the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, along with the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (the “Affordable Care Act”), that may result from actions by Congress or executive orders, may result in reductions in our tenants’ revenues or in our revenues from our RIDEA structures, operations and cash flows and affect our tenants’ ability to meet their obligations to us or our financial performance through a RIDEA structure. In addition, failure to comply with reimbursement regulations or other laws applicable to healthcare providers could result in penalties, fines, litigation costs, lost revenue or other consequences, which could adversely impact our tenants’ ability to make contractual rent payments to us under a triple-net lease or our cash flows from operations under a RIDEA structure. Revenues of our senior housing tenants and our SHOP segment under a RIDEA structure are also dependent on a number of other factors, including licensed bed capacity, occupancy, the healthcare needs of residents, the rate of reimbursement, the income and assets of seniors in the regions in which we own properties, and social and environmental factors. For example, due to generally increased vulnerability to illness, COVID-19 has resulted in, and another epidemic or pandemic, a severe flu season or any other widespread illness could result in, early move-outs or delayed move-ins during quarantine periods or during periods when actual or perceived risks of such illnesses are heightened, which have, and could continue to reduce our operators’ revenues. Additionally, new and evolving payor and provider programs in the United States, including but not limited to Medicare Advantage, Dual Eligible, Accountable Care Organizations, Bundled Payments and other value-based reimbursement arrangements, have resulted in reduced reimbursement rates, average length of stay and average daily census, particularly for higher acuity patients. If our tenants fail to maintain revenues sufficient to meet their financial obligations to us or if our operators under a RIDEA structure underperform, our business, results of operations and financial condition would be materially adversely affected. Our tenants and operators have, and may continue to seek to, offset losses by obtaining funds under the recently adopted Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (“CARES Act”) or other similar legislative initiatives at the state and local level. Receipt of these funds is subject to a detailed application and approval process and in some cases, entails operating restrictions. It is indeterminable when or if these government funds will ultimately be received by our tenants and operators or whether these funds may materially offset the cash flow disruptions experienced by them. If they are unable to obtain these funds within a reasonable time period or at all, or the conditions precedent to receiving these funds are overly burdensome or not feasible, it may substantially affect their ability to make payments or perform their obligations when due to us. 17 Increased competition, operating costs and market changes may affect the ability of some of our tenants, operators and borrowers to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us. Occupancy levels at, and rental income from, our properties are dependent on our ability and the ability of our tenants, operators and borrowers to compete with other tenants and operators on a number of different levels, including the quality of care provided, reputation, the physical appearance of a property, price, the range of services offered, family preference, alternatives for healthcare delivery, the supply of competing properties, physicians, staff, referral sources, location, and the size and demographics of the population in the surrounding area. In addition, our tenants, operators and borrowers face an increasingly competitive labor market, which has been compounded by the COVID-19 pandemic. An inability to attract and retain trained personnel could negatively impact the ability of our tenants, operators and borrowers to meet their obligations to us. A shortage of care givers or other trained personnel, union activities, minimum wage laws, or general inflationary pressures on wages may force tenants, operators and borrowers to enhance pay and benefits packages to compete effectively for skilled personnel, or to use more expensive contract personnel, but they may be unable to offset these added costs by increasing the rates charged to residents. Any increase in labor costs and other property operating expenses or any failure by our tenants, operators or borrowers to attract and retain qualified personnel could adversely affect our cash flow and have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our tenants, operators and borrowers also compete with numerous other companies providing similar healthcare services or alternatives such as home health agencies, life care at home, community-based service programs, retirement communities and convalescent centers. This competition, over-development in some markets in which we invest, COVID-19 outbreaks, or the negative public perception that such outbreak may occur, has caused the occupancy rate of unstabilized buildings to slow or decline, and the monthly rate that some unstabilized properties were able to obtain for their services to decrease. Our tenants, operators and borrowers may be unable to achieve and maintain occupancy and rate levels, and to manage their expenses, in a way that will enable them to meet all of their obligations to us. Further, many competing companies may have resources and attributes that are superior to those of our tenants, operators and borrowers, which may also allow them to better withstand the impact of COVID-19 or other competitive pressures. Our tenants, operators and borrowers may encounter increased competition that could limit their ability to maintain or attract residents and employees, or expand their businesses or to manage their expenses, which could materially adversely affect their ability to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us, potentially decreasing our revenues, impairing our assets and/or increasing collection and dispute costs. Financial deterioration, insolvency or bankruptcy of one or more of our major tenants, operators or borrowers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. A downturn in any of our tenants’, operators’ or borrowers’ businesses, including ongoing downturns due to the COVID-19 pandemic, has led and could continue to lead to voluntary or involuntary bankruptcy or similar insolvency proceedings, including but not limited to assignment for the benefit of creditors, liquidation, or winding-up. Bankruptcy and insolvency laws afford certain rights to a defaulting tenant, operator or borrower that has filed for bankruptcy or reorganization that may render certain of our remedies unenforceable or, at the least, delay our ability to pursue such remedies and realize any related recoveries. A debtor has the right to assume, or to assume and assign to a third party, or to reject its executory contracts and unexpired leases in a bankruptcy proceeding. If a debtor were to reject its leases with us, obligations under such rejected leases would cease. The claim against the rejecting debtor would be an unsecured claim, which would be limited by the statutory cap set forth in the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. This statutory cap may be substantially less than the remaining rent actually owed under the lease. In addition, a debtor may also assert in bankruptcy proceedings that leases should be re-characterized as financing agreements, which could result in our being deemed a lender instead of a landlord. A lender’s rights and remedies, as compared to a landlord’s, generally are materially less favorable, and our rights as a lender may be subordinated to other creditors’ rights. Furthermore, the automatic stay provisions of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code would preclude us from enforcing our remedies unless we first obtain relief from the court having jurisdiction over the bankruptcy case. This would effectively limit or delay our ability to collect unpaid rent or interest payments, and we may ultimately not receive any payment at all. In addition, we would likely be required to fund certain expenses and obligations (e.g., real estate taxes, insurance, debt costs and maintenance expenses) to preserve the value of our properties, avoid the imposition of liens on our properties or transition our properties to a new tenant or operator. Additionally, we lease many of our properties to healthcare providers who provide long-term custodial care to the elderly. Evicting operators for failure to pay rent while the property is occupied typically involves specific procedural or regulatory requirements and may not be successful. Even if eviction is possible, we may determine not to do so due to reputational or other risks. Bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings typically also result in increased costs to the operator, significant management distraction and performance declines. 18 If we are unable to transition affected properties, they would likely experience prolonged operational disruption, leading to lower occupancy rates and further depressed revenues. Publicity about the operator’s financial condition and insolvency proceeds may also negatively impact their and our reputations, decreasing customer demand and revenues. Any or all of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, results of operations and cash flows. These risks would be magnified where we lease multiple properties to a single operator under a master lease, as an operator failure or default under a master lease would expose us to these risks across multiple properties. We depend on investments in the healthcare property sector, making our profitability more vulnerable to a downturn or slowdown in that specific sector than if we were investing in multiple industries. We concentrate our investments in the healthcare property sector. A downturn or slowdown in the healthcare property sector, such as the ongoing COVID-19 downturn, has had and may continue to have a greater adverse impact on our business than if we had investments in multiple industries and could negatively impact the ability of our tenants, operators and borrowers to meet their obligations to us, as well as the ability to maintain historical rental and occupancy rates, which would have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, such downturns have had and could continue to have a material adverse effect on the value of our properties and our ability to sell properties at prices or on terms acceptable or favorable to us. In addition, we are exposed to the risks inherent in concentrating our investments in real estate. Our real estate investments are relatively illiquid due to: (i) restrictions on our ability to sell properties under applicable REIT tax laws; (ii) other tax-related considerations; (iii) regulatory hurdles; and (iv) market conditions. As a result, we may be unable to recognize full value for any property that we seek to sell for liquidity reasons. Our inability to timely respond to investment performance changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. We may have difficulty identifying and securing replacement tenants or operators, and we may be required to incur substantial renovation or tenant improvement costs to make our properties suitable for them. Our tenants may not renew existing leases, and our operators may not renew their management agreements beyond their current terms. If we or our tenants or operators terminate or do not renew the leases or management agreements for our properties, we would attempt to reposition those properties with another tenant or operator. These difficulties may be exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic, as new operators or tenants may not be willing to take on the increased exposure, especially while active cases are occurring. Healthcare properties are typically highly customized, and the improvements generally required to conform a property to healthcare use are costly and at times tenant-specific and are typically subject to regulatory requirements. A new or replacement tenant or operator may require different features in a property, depending on that tenant’s or operator’s particular business. In addition, infrastructure improvements for life science properties typically are significantly more costly than improvements to other property types due to the highly specialized nature of the properties and the greater lease square footage often required by life science tenants. Therefore, if a current tenant or operator is unable to pay rent and/or vacates a property, we may incur substantial expenditures to modify a property and experience delays before we are able to secure another tenant or operator or to accommodate multiple tenants or operators, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, we may fail to identify suitable replacements or enter into leases, management agreements or other arrangements with new tenants or operators on a timely basis or on terms as favorable to us as our current leases, if at all. Furthermore, during transition periods to new tenants or operators, we anticipate that the attention of existing tenants or operators will be diverted from the performance of the properties and there may also be increased errors and delays as a result of the transition, which would cause the financial and operational performance at these properties to decline. Following a decline in performance, we may not be able to rehabilitate the property to previous performance levels, which would adversely impact our results of operations. We also may be required to fund certain expenses and obligations, such as real estate taxes, debt costs and maintenance expenses, to preserve the value of, and avoid the imposition of liens on, our properties while they are being repositioned. In addition, we may incur certain obligations and liabilities, including obligations to indemnify the replacement tenant or operator, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Property development and redevelopment risks can render a project less profitable or unprofitable and, under certain circumstances, prevent completion of development or redevelopment activities once undertaken. Large-scale, ground-up, healthcare property development presents additional risks for us, including risks that: • a development opportunity may be abandoned after expending significant resources resulting in the loss of deposits or failure to recover expenses already incurred; 19 • the development and construction costs of a project exceed original estimates due to increased interest rates, higher costs relating to materials, transportation, labor, leasing, negligent construction or construction defects, damage, vandalism or accidents, among others, and increased costs as a result of COVID-19 related delays and/or pressure on supply chains, which could make the completion of the development project less profitable; • the project may not be completed on schedule as a result of a variety of factors that are beyond our control, including natural disasters and other catastrophic events, health crises or other pandemics such as the COVID-19 pandemic and related restrictions on development and redevelopment activities, labor conditions, material shortages, regulatory hurdles, including the ability to obtain necessary zoning or land use permits, civil unrest and acts of war or terrorism, which result in increases in construction costs and debt service expenses or provide tenants or operators with the right to terminate pre-construction leases; and • demand for the new project may decrease prior to completion, due to competition or otherwise, and occupancy rates and rents at a newly completed property may not meet expected levels and could be insufficient to make the property profitable. Any of the foregoing risks could result in not achieving our expected return on investment and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Changes within the life science industry may adversely impact our revenues and results of operations. Our life science investments could be adversely affected if the life science industry is impacted by an economic, financial, or banking crisis, a health crisis, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, or if the life science industry migrates from the U.S. to other countries or to areas outside of primary life science markets in South San Francisco, California, San Diego, California, and greater Boston, Massachusetts. Our ability to negotiate contractual rent escalations on future leases and to achieve increases in rental rates will depend upon market conditions and the demand for life science properties at the time the leases are negotiated and the increases are proposed. If economic, financial or industry conditions adversely affect our life science tenants, we may not be able to lease or re-lease our properties in a timely manner or at favorable rates, which would negatively impact our revenues and results of operations. Because infrastructure improvements for life science properties typically are significantly more costly than improvements to other property types due to the highly specialized nature of the properties, and life science tenants typically require greater lease square footage relative to medical office tenants, repositioning efforts would have a disproportionate adverse effect on our life science segment performance. Future mergers or consolidations of life science entities could reduce the amount of rentable square footage requirements of our client tenants and prospective client tenants, which may adversely impact our revenues from lease payments and results of operations. Our tenants in the life science industry face high levels of regulation, funding requirements, expense and uncertainty. Life science tenants, particularly those involved in developing and marketing pharmaceutical products, are subject to certain risks, including the following: • significant funding for the research, development, clinical testing, manufacture and commercialization of their products and technologies, as well as to fund their obligations, including rent payments due to us, and our tenants’ ability to raise capital depends on the viability of their products and technologies, their financial and operating condition and outlook, and the overall financial, banking and economic environment. If venture capital firms, private investors, the public markets, companies in the life science industry, the government or other sources of funding are difficult to obtain or unavailable to support our tenants’ activities, including as a result of general economic conditions, adverse market conditions or government shutdowns that limit our tenants’ ability to raise capital, such as those resulting from the current COVID-19 pandemic, a tenant’s business would be adversely affected or fail; • the research, development, clinical testing, manufacture and marketing of some of our tenants’ products require federal, state and foreign regulatory approvals which may be costly or difficult to obtain, may take several years and be subject to delay, including delays brought on by the COVID-19 pandemic, may not be obtained at all, require validation through clinical trials that may face delays or difficulties resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic or otherwise, require the use of substantial resources, and may often be unpredictable; • even after regulatory approval and market acceptance, the product may still present significant regulatory and liability risks, including, among others, the possible later discovery of safety concerns and other defects and potential loss of approvals, competition from new products and the expiration of patent protection for the product; • our tenants with marketable products may be adversely affected by healthcare reform and the reimbursement policies of government or private healthcare payors; • our tenants with marketable products may be unable to successfully manufacture their drugs economically; 20 • our tenants depend on the commercial success of certain products, which may be reliant on the efficacy of the product, as well as acceptance among doctors and patients; negative publicity or negative results or safety signals from the clinical trials of competitors may reduce demand or prompt regulatory actions; and • our tenants may be unable to adapt to the rapid technological advances in the industry and to adequately protect their intellectual property under patent, copyright or trade secret laws and defend against third-party claims of intellectual property violations. If our tenants’ businesses are adversely affected, they may fail to make their rent payments to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The hospitals on whose campuses our MOBs are located and their affiliated healthcare systems could fail to remain competitive or financially viable, which could adversely impact their ability to attract physicians and physician groups to our MOBs and our other properties that serve the healthcare industry. The viability of hospitals depends on factors such as: (i) the quality and mix of healthcare services provided; (ii) competition for patients and physicians; (iii) demographic trends in the surrounding community; (iv) market position; and (v) growth potential, as well as the ability of the affiliated healthcare systems to provide economies of scale and access to capital. In addition, most hospitals are experiencing a significant reduction in revenue due to decreased volumes as well as increased costs as they provide care capacity for potential COVID-19 patients. If a hospital whose campus is located near one of our MOBs is unable to meet its financial obligations, and if an affiliated healthcare system is unable to support that hospital or goes bankrupt, the hospital may not be able to compete successfully or could be forced to close or relocate, which could adversely impact its ability to attract physicians and other healthcare-related users. Because we rely on our proximity to and affiliations with these hospitals to create tenant demand for space in our MOBs, their inability to remain competitive or financially viable, or to attract physicians and physician groups, could adversely affect our MOB operations and have a material adverse effect on us. In addition, changes to or replacement of the Affordable Care Act and related regulations could result in significant changes to the scope of insurance coverage and reimbursement policies, which could put negative pressure on the operations and revenues of our MOBs. We may be unable to maintain or expand our existing and future hospital and health system client relationships. We invest significant time in developing relationships with both new and existing hospital and health system clients. If we fail to maintain these relationships, including through a lack of responsiveness, failure to adapt to the current market or employment of individuals with inadequate experience, our reputation and relationships will be harmed and we may lose business to competitors, which could have a material adverse effect on us. Economic and other conditions that negatively affect geographic areas from which a greater percentage of our revenue is recognized could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to increased exposure to adverse conditions affecting California, including: (i) downturns in local economies and increases in unemployment rates; (ii) changes in local real estate conditions, including increases in real estate taxes; (iii) increased competition; (iv) decreased demand; (v) changes in state-specific legislation; and (vi) local climate events and natural disasters and other catastrophic events, such as health pandemics (including the COVID-19 pandemic in California and the resulting state-wide shutdown), earthquakes, windstorms, flooding, wildfires and mudslides. These risks could significantly disrupt our businesses in the region, harm our ability to compete effectively, result in increased costs, and divert management attention, any or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if significant changes in the climate occur in areas where we own property, this could result in physical damage to or a decrease in demand for properties located in these areas or affected by these conditions. If changes in the climate have material effects, such as property destruction, or occur for extended periods, this could have a material adverse effect on business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, changes in federal, state and local legislation and regulation on climate change could require increased capital expenditures to improve the energy efficiency of our existing properties and could also cause increased costs for our new developments without a corresponding increase in revenue. Uninsured or underinsured losses could result in a significant loss of capital invested in a property, lower than expected future revenues, and unanticipated expense. Our insurance coverage does not include damages from business interruptions, loss of revenue or earnings or any related effects caused by health pandemics, including the COVID-19 pandemic. We anticipate incurring significant out-of-pocket costs associated with legal proceedings or other claims from residents and patients at our properties that relate to the COVID-19 pandemic. 21 Generally, insurance coverage for health pandemics has not previously been readily available and, if and when it does become available, may not be on commercially reasonable terms. Further, even if such coverage is available on commercially reasonable terms, we cannot assure you that we would receive insurance proceeds that will compensate us fully for our liabilities, costs and expenses in the event of a health pandemic. In addition, a large number of our properties are located in areas exposed to earthquake, windstorm, flood and other common natural disasters. In particular, a significant portion of our life science development projects and approximately 70% of our life science portfolio (based on gross asset value as of December 31, 2020) was concentrated in California, which is known to be subject to earthquakes, wildfires and other natural disasters. While we purchase insurance coverage for earthquake, fire, windstorm, flood and other natural disasters, and we may be unable to purchase the limits and terms we desire on a commercially reasonable basis. In addition, there are certain exposures for which we do not purchase insurance because we do not believe it is economically feasible to do so or there is no viable insurance market. We maintain earthquake insurance for our properties that are located in the vicinity of active earthquake zones in amounts and with deductibles we believe are commercially reasonable. Because of our significant concentration in the seismically active regions of South San Francisco, California and San Diego, California, a damaging earthquake in these areas could significantly impact multiple properties, which may amount to a significant portion of our life science portfolio. As a result, aggregate deductible amounts may be material, and our insurance coverage may be materially insufficient to cover our losses, either of which would adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If one of our properties experiences a loss that is uninsured or that exceeds policy coverage limits, we could lose our investment in the damaged property as well as the anticipated future cash flows from such property. If the damaged property is subject to recourse indebtedness, we could continue to be liable for the indebtedness even if the property is irreparably damaged. In addition, even if damage to our properties is covered by insurance, a disruption of business caused by a casualty event may result in loss of revenues for us. Any business interruption insurance may not fully compensate the lender or us for such loss of revenue. Our SHOP Operators also face various forms of class-action lawsuits from time to time, such as wage and hour and consumer rights actions, which generally are not covered by insurance. These class actions could result in significant defense costs, as well as settlements or verdicts that materially decrease anticipated revenues from a property and can result in the loss of a portion or all of our invested capital. Our use of joint ventures may limit our flexibility with jointly owned investments. We have and may continue to develop and/or acquire properties in joint ventures with other persons or entities when circumstances warrant the use of these structures. Our participation in joint ventures is subject to risks that may not be present with other methods of ownership, including: • our joint venture partners could have investment and financing goals that are inconsistent with our objectives, including the timing, terms and strategies for any investments, and what levels of debt to incur or carry; • we could experience an impasse on certain decisions because we do not have sole decision-making authority, which could require us to expend additional resources on resolving such impasses or potential disputes, including litigation or arbitration; • our joint venture partners may have competing interests in our markets that could create conflicts of interest; • our ability to transfer our interest in a joint venture to a third party may be restricted and the market for our interest may be limited and/or valued lower than fair market value; • our joint venture partners may be structured differently than us for tax purposes, and this could create conflicts of interest and risks to our REIT status; and • our joint venture partners might become insolvent, fail to fund their share of required capital contributions or fail to fulfill their obligations as a joint venture partner, which may require us to infuse our own capital into the venture on behalf of the partner despite other competing uses for such capital. With respect to our joint ventures, we may be limited in our ability to control or influence operations, and in our ability to exit or transfer our interest in the joint venture to a third party. As a result, we may not receive full value for our ownership interest if we tried to sell it to a third party. In addition, in some instances, we and/or our joint venture partner will have the right to cause us to sell our interest, or acquire our partner’s interest, at a time when we otherwise would not have initiated such a transaction. Our ability to acquire our partner’s interest will be limited if we do not have sufficient cash, available borrowing capacity or other capital resources. This would require us to sell our interest in the joint venture when we would otherwise prefer to retain it. Any of the foregoing risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 22 We have now, and may have in the future, contingent rent provisions and/or rent escalators based on the Consumer Price Index, which could hinder our profitability and growth. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from leasing properties pursuant to leases that generally provide for fixed rental rates, subject to annual escalations. Under certain leases, a portion of the tenant’s rental payment to us is based on the property’s revenues (i.e., contingent rent). If, as a result of weak economic conditions or other factors that may be outside of our control, the property’s revenue declines, our rental revenues would decrease and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, some of our leases provide that annual rent is modified based on changes in the Consumer Price Index or other thresholds (i.e., contingent rent escalators). If the Consumer Price Index does not increase or other applicable thresholds are not met, rental rates may not increase as anticipated or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Furthermore, if strong economic conditions result in significant increases in the Consumer Price Index, but the escalations under our leases with contingent rent escalators are capped, our growth and profitability also may be limited. Competition may make it difficult to identify and purchase, or develop, suitable healthcare properties to grow our investment portfolio, to finance acquisitions on favorable terms, or to retain or attract tenants and operators. We face significant competition from other REITs, investment companies, private equity and hedge fund investors, sovereign funds, healthcare operators, lenders, developers and other institutional investors, some of whom may have greater resources and lower costs of capital than we do. Increased competition makes it more challenging for us to identify and successfully capitalize on opportunities that meet our business goals and could improve the bargaining power of property owners seeking to sell, thereby impeding our investment, acquisition and development activities. Similarly, our properties face competition for tenants and operators from other properties in the same market, which may affect our ability to attract and retain tenants and operators, or may reduce the rents we are able to charge. If we cannot capitalize on our development pipeline, identify and purchase a sufficient quantity of healthcare properties at favorable prices, finance acquisitions on commercially favorable terms, or attract and retain profitable tenants and operators, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. From time to time we have made, and we may seek to make, one or more material acquisitions, which may involve the expenditure of significant funds. We regularly review potential transactions in order to maximize stockholder value. Our review process may require significant management attention and a potential transaction could be abandoned or rejected by us or the other parties involved after we expend significant resources and time. In addition, future acquisitions may require the issuance of securities, the incurrence of debt, assumption of contingent liabilities or incurrence of significant expenditures, each of which could materially adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. In addition, the financing required for acquisitions may not be available on commercially favorable terms or at all. If we are unable to successfully integrate our acquisitions, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely affected. Successful integration of acquired companies depends primarily on our ability to consolidate operations, systems, procedures, properties and personnel, and to eliminate redundancies and reduce costs. We may encounter difficulties in these integrations. Potential difficulties associated with acquisitions include: (i) our ability to effectively monitor and manage our expanded portfolio of properties; (ii) the loss of key employees; (iii) the disruption of our ongoing business or that of the acquired entity; (iv) possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies; and (v) the assumption of unexpected liabilities, including: • liabilities relating to the cleanup or remediation of undisclosed environmental conditions; • unasserted claims of vendors, residents, patients or other persons dealing with the seller; • liabilities, claims and litigation, whether or not incurred in the ordinary course of business, relating to periods prior to our acquisition; • claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers and others indemnified by the seller; • claims for return of government reimbursement payments; and • liabilities for taxes relating to periods prior to our acquisition. 23 In addition, acquired companies and their properties may fail to perform as expected, including in respect of estimated cost savings. Inaccurate assumptions regarding future rental or occupancy rates could result in overly optimistic estimates of future revenues. Similarly, we may underestimate future operating expenses or the costs necessary to bring properties up to standards established for their intended use or for property improvements. If we have difficulties with any of these areas, or if we later discover additional liabilities or experience unforeseen costs relating to our acquired companies, we may not achieve the anticipated economic benefits from our acquisitions, and this may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our tenants, operators and borrowers face litigation and may experience rising liability and insurance costs. Our tenants, operators and borrowers are from time to time parties to litigation, including related to the quality of care at healthcare properties. The effect of litigation may materially increase the costs incurred by our tenants, operators and borrowers for monitoring and reporting quality of care compliance, which under a RIDEA structure would be borne by us. In addition, their cost of professional liability, medical malpractice, property, business interruption, and insurance policies that may provide partial coverage for COVID-19 and other environmental or infectious disease outbreaks, epidemics and pandemics can be significant and may increase or not be available at a reasonable cost or at all. Cost increases could cause our tenants and borrowers to be unable to make their lease or mortgage payments or fail to purchase the appropriate liability and malpractice insurance, or cause our borrowers to be unable to meet their obligations to us, potentially decreasing our revenues and increasing our collection and litigation costs. Furthermore, with respect to our senior housing properties operated in RIDEA structures, we directly bear the costs of any such increases in litigation, monitoring, reporting and insurance due to our direct exposure to the cash flows of such properties. In addition, as a result of our ownership of healthcare properties, we may be named as a defendant in lawsuits arising from the alleged actions of our tenants or operators. With respect to our triple-net leases, our tenants generally have agreed to indemnify us for various claims, litigation and liabilities in connection with their leasing and operation of our triple-net leased properties. With respect to our RIDEA structured properties, we are responsible for these claims, litigation and liabilities, with limited indemnification rights against our operator typically based on the gross negligence or willful misconduct by the operator. Although our leases provide us with certain information rights with respect to our tenants, one or more of our tenants may be or become party to pending litigation or investigation to which we are unaware or do not have a right to participate or evaluate. In such cases, we would be unable to determine the potential impact of such litigation or investigation on our tenants or our business or results. Moreover, negative publicity of any of our operators’ or tenants’ litigation, other legal proceedings or investigations may also negatively impact their and our reputation, resulting in lower customer demand and revenues, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. We may be unable to successfully foreclose on the collateral securing our real estate-related loans, and even if we are successful in our foreclosure efforts, we may be unable to successfully operate, occupy or reposition the underlying real estate, which may adversely affect our ability to recover our investments. If a tenant or operator defaults under one of our mortgages or mezzanine loans, we may have to foreclose on the loan or take additional actions, including but not limited to acquiring title to the collateral via statutory or judicial foreclosure or commencing collection litigation. We may determine that substantial improvements or repairs to the property are necessary in order to maximize the property’s investment potential. In some cases, because our collateral consists of the equity interests in an entity that directly or indirectly owns the applicable real property or interests in other operating properties, we may not have full recourse with respect to assets of that entity, or that entity may have incurred unexpected liabilities which would preclude us from fully recovering our investment. Tenants, operators or borrowers may contest enforcement of foreclosure or other remedies, seek bankruptcy protection against our exercise of enforcement or other remedies and/or bring claims for lender liability in response to actions to enforce mortgage obligations. Foreclosure or collections related costs, high loan-to-value ratios or declines in the value of the property may prevent us from realizing an amount equal to our mortgage or mezzanine loan balance upon foreclosure or conclusion of litigation, and we may be required to record a valuation allowance for such losses. Even if we are able to successfully foreclose on the collateral securing our real estate-related loans, we may inherit properties for which we may be unable to expeditiously secure tenants or operators, if at all, or we may acquire equity interests that we are unable to immediately resell or otherwise liquidate due to limitations under the securities laws, either of which would adversely affect our ability to fully recover our investment. 24 Risks Related to the Regulatory Environment Laws or regulations prohibiting eviction of our tenants, even on a temporary basis, could have a material adverse effect on our revenues if our tenants fail to make their contractual rent payments to us. Various federal, state and local governments have enacted, and may continue to enact, laws regulations and moratoriums or take other actions which could limit our ability to evict tenants until such laws, regulations or moratoriums are reversed or lifted. In particular, many state and local governments have implemented eviction moratoriums as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic which generally apply to both residential and commercial tenants. Although many of these moratoriums are expected to be temporary in nature, they may be extended for a significant period of time until the COVID-19 pandemic subsides. Although we generally have arrangements and other agreements that give us the right under specified circumstances to terminate a lease or evict a tenant for nonpayment of contractual rent, such laws, regulations and moratoriums will generally prohibit our ability to begin eviction proceedings even where no rent or only partial rent is being paid for so long as such law, regulation or moratorium remains in effect. Further, under current laws and regulations, eviction proceedings for delinquent tenants are already costly and time-consuming, and, if there are existing backlogs or backlogs develop in courts due to higher than normal eviction proceedings, whether or not due to an increase in eviction proceedings after the COVID-19 pandemic, we may incur significant costs and it may take a significant amount of time to ultimately evict any tenant who is not meeting their contractual rent obligations. If we are restricted, delayed or prohibited from evicting tenants for failing to make contractual rent payments, our business, results of operations and financial condition may be materially adversely impacted. Tenants and operators that fail to comply with federal, state, local and international laws and regulations, including resident health and safety requirements, as well as licensure, certification and inspection requirements, may cease to operate or be unable to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us. Our tenants, operators and borrowers are subject to or impacted by extensive, frequently changing federal, state and local and laws and regulations. See “Item 1-Business-Government Regulation, Licensing and Enforcement-Healthcare Licensure and Certificate of Need” for a discussion of such laws and regulations. Our tenants’, operators’ or borrowers’ failure to comply with any of these laws, regulations or requirements could result in: (i) loss of accreditation, denial of reimbursement; (ii) imposition of fines, suspension or decertification from government healthcare programs; (iii) civil liability; and (iv) in certain instances, criminal penalties, loss of license or closure of the property and/or the incurrence of considerable costs arising from an investigation or regulatory action, which may have an adverse effect on properties that we own and lease to a third party tenant, that we own and operate through a RIDEA structure or on which we hold a mortgage, and therefore may materially adversely impact us. Required regulatory approvals can delay or prohibit transfers of our healthcare properties. Transfers of healthcare properties to successor tenants or operators are typically subject to regulatory approvals or ratifications, including, but not limited to, change of ownership approvals and Medicare and Medicaid provider agreements that are not required for transfers of other types of commercial operations and other types of real estate. The replacement of any tenant or operator could be delayed by the regulatory approval process of any federal, state or local government agency necessary for the transfer of the property or the replacement of the operator licensed to manage the property, during which time the property may experience performance declines. The COVID-19 pandemic may materially delay necessary approvals, thereby lengthening the period of performance deterioration. If we are unable to find a suitable replacement tenant or operator upon favorable terms, or at all, we may take possession of a property, which could expose us to successor liability, require us to indemnify subsequent operators to whom we transfer the operating rights and licenses, or require us to spend substantial time and funds to preserve the value of the property and adapt the property to other uses, all of which could have a material adverse effect of our business, results of operations and financial condition. 25 Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and fire, safety and other regulations may require us to make expenditures that adversely affect our cash flows. Our properties must comply with applicable ADA and any similar state and local laws. This may require removal of barriers to access by persons with disabilities in public areas of our properties. Noncompliance could result in the incurrence of additional costs associated with bringing the properties into compliance, the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants in individual lawsuits or as part of a class action. While the tenants to whom we lease our properties are obligated to comply with the ADA and similar state and local provisions, and typically under tenant leases are obligated to cover costs associated with compliance, if required changes involve greater expenditures than anticipated, or if the changes must be made on a more accelerated basis than anticipated, the ability of these tenants to cover costs could be adversely affected. As a result, we could be required to expend funds to comply with the provisions of the ADA and similar state and local laws on behalf of tenants, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, with respect to our SHOP properties under RIDEA structures, we are ultimately responsible for such litigation and compliance costs. In addition, we are required to operate our properties in compliance with fire and safety regulations, building codes and other land use regulations. New and revised regulations and codes may be adopted by governmental agencies and bodies and become applicable to our properties. For example, new safety laws for senior housing properties were adopted following the particularly damaging 2018 hurricane season. Compliance could require substantial capital expenditures, and may restrict our ability to renovate our properties. These expenditures and restrictions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and cash flows. The requirements of, or changes to, governmental reimbursement programs such as Medicare or Medicaid, may adversely affect our tenants’, operators’ and borrowers’ ability to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us. Certain of our tenants, operators and borrowers are affected, directly or indirectly, by a complex set of federal, state and local laws and regulations pertaining to governmental reimbursement programs, including the recently enacted CARES Act and other similar relief legislation enacted as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. These laws and regulations are subject to frequent and substantial changes that are sometimes applied retroactively. See “Item 1-Business-Government Regulation, Licensing and Enforcement.” For example, to the extent that our tenants, operators or borrowers receive a significant portion of their revenues from governmental payors, primarily Medicare and Medicaid, they are generally subject to, among other things: • statutory and regulatory changes; • retroactive rate adjustments; • recovery of program overpayments or set-offs; • federal, state and local litigation and enforcement actions; • administrative proceedings; • policy interpretations; • payment or other delays by fiscal intermediaries or carriers; • government funding restrictions (at a program level or with respect to specific properties); • reduced reimbursement rates under managed care contracts; • interruption or delays in payments due to any ongoing governmental investigations and audits at such properties; and • reputational harm of publicly disclosed enforcement actions, audits or investigations related to billing and reimbursements. The failure to comply with the extensive laws, regulations and other requirements applicable to their business and the operation of our properties could result in, among other challenges: (i) becoming ineligible to receive reimbursement from governmental reimbursement programs, including under the CARES Act; (ii) becoming subject to prepayment reviews or claims for overpayments; (iii) bans on admissions of new patients or residents; (iv) civil or criminal penalties; and (v) significant operational changes, including requirements to increase staffing or the scope of care given to residents. These laws and regulations are enforced by a variety of federal, state and local agencies and can also be enforced by private litigants through, among other things, federal and state false claims acts, which allow private litigants to bring qui tam or “whistleblower” actions. 26 We are unable to predict future changes to or interpretations of federal, state and local statutes and regulations, including the Medicare and Medicaid statutes and regulations, or the intensity of enforcement efforts with respect to such statutes and regulations. Any changes in the regulatory framework or the intensity or extent of governmental or private enforcement actions could have a material adverse effect on our tenants and operators. Sometimes, governmental payors freeze or reduce payments to healthcare providers, or provide annual reimbursement rate increases that are smaller than expected, due to budgetary and other pressures. In addition, the federal government periodically makes changes in the statutes and regulations relating to Medicare and Medicaid reimbursement that may impact state reimbursement programs, particularly Medicaid reimbursement and managed care payments. We cannot make any assessment as to the ultimate timing or the effect that any future changes may have on our tenants’, operators’ and borrowers’ costs of doing business and on the amount of reimbursement by government and other third-party payors. The failure of any of our tenants, operators or borrowers to comply with these laws and regulations, and significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed, reductions in reimbursement rates and fees, or increases in provider or similar types of taxes, could materially adversely affect their ability to meet their financial and contractual obligations to us. Furthermore, executive orders and legislation may amend the Affordable Care Act and related regulations in whole or in part. We also anticipate that Congress, state legislatures, and third-party payors may continue to review and assess alternative healthcare delivery and payment systems and may propose and adopt legislation or policy changes or implementations effecting additional fundamental changes in the healthcare system. For example, the Department of Health and Human Services has focused on tying Medicare payments to quality or value through alternative payment models, which generally aim to make providers attentive to the total costs of treatments. Medicare no longer reimburses hospitals for care related to certain preventable adverse events and imposes payment reductions on hospitals for preventable readmissions. These punitive approaches could be expanded to additional types of providers in the future. Additionally, the patient driven payment model utilized by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services to calculate reimbursement rates for patients in skilled nursing properties could result in decreases in payments to our operators and tenants or increase our operators’ and tenants’ costs. If any such changes significantly and adversely affect our tenants’ profitability, they could in turn negatively affect our tenants’ ability and willingness to comply with the terms of their leases with us and/or renew their leases with us upon expiration, which could impact our business, prospects, financial condition or results of operations. Legislation to address federal government operations and administration decisions affecting the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services could have a material adverse effect on our tenants’, operators’ and borrowers’ liquidity, financial condition or results of operations. Congressional consideration of legislation pertaining to the federal debt ceiling, the Affordable Care Act, tax reform and entitlement programs, including reimbursement rates for physicians, could have a material adverse effect on our tenants’, operators’ and borrowers’ liquidity, financial condition or results of operations. In particular, reduced funding for entitlement programs such as Medicare and Medicaid would result in increased costs and fees for programs such as Medicare Advantage Plans and additional reductions in reimbursements to providers. Amendments the Affordable Care Act in whole or in part and decisions by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services could impact the delivery of services and benefits under Medicare, Medicaid or Medicare Advantage Plans and could affect our tenants and operators and the manner in which they are reimbursed by such programs. Any such material adverse effect on our tenants, operators or borrowers could adversely affect their ability to satisfy their obligations to us and could have a material adverse effect on us. Our participation in the CARES Act Provider Relief Program and other COVID-19-related stimulus and relief programs could subject us to disruptive government and financial audits and investigations, regulatory enforcement actions, civil litigation, and other claims, penalties, and liabilities. Under the CARES Act and subsequent relief legislation, Congress has allocated more than $178 billion to eligible hospitals, physicians, and other health care providers through the Public Health and Social Services Emergency Fund (the “Provider Relief Fund” or “PRF”). The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”) has distributed PRF grants through various general and targeted distributions, including certain distributions that were paid automatically to providers, and others that required providers submit requested data or applications. We and our senior housing operators have received funds from several PRF distributions, both via automatic payments and also as a result of applications we submitted for PRF funds. 27 PRF funds are intended to reimburse eligible providers for unreimbursed health care-related expenses and lost revenues attributable to COVID-19 and must be used only to prevent, prepare for or respond to COVID-19. PRF funds received under certain targeted distributions, including the Nursing Home Infection Control Distribution, are further limited to specific uses. Additionally, the PRF program imposes certain, distribution-specific eligibility criteria and requires recipients comply with various terms and conditions. HHS has stated that compliance with PRF program terms and conditions is material to HHS’s decision to disburse PRF payments to recipients. PRF program terms and conditions include limitations and requirements governing use of PRF funds, implementation of controls, retention of records relating to PRF funds, audit and reporting to governmental authorities, and other PRF program requirements. PRF regulatory guidance regarding eligibility, use of funds, audit, reporting, and other PRF terms and conditions continues to evolve and there is a high degree of uncertainty surrounding interpretation and implementation, particularly among more complex corporate, transactional and contractual relationships, including RIDEA structures and for organizations with multiple recipient subsidiaries. In addition to other, various risks related to our PRF program participation, in light of the evolving laws and guidance related to PRF, there can be no assurance that PRF guidance will not change in ways that adversely impacts the PRF funding we receive, our ability to retain PRF funding, or our eligibility to participate in the PRF program. Changing PRF program requirements could reduce the amount of PRF funds we initially receive or could render us or our operators ineligible for future or previously received PRF funds. PRF reporting obligations and monitoring and compliance efforts could impose substantial costs, become overly burdensome and require significant attention from leadership, disrupting our business and impeding our operations. Further, our operators may not consistently account for PRF and other relief funds, which may adversely impact consistency in our reporting, including among operators and across reporting periods. Ultimately, as PRF program requirements continue to evolve, we may determine that we are unable to comply with certain terms and conditions, or that we are no longer eligible for some or all of the PRF payments we or our operators previously received. If we are unable to fully comply with applicable PRF terms and conditions, we may be required to return some or all PRF funds received and may be subject to further enforcement action. Due to our and our operators’ participation in the PRF program, we may be subject to government and other audits and investigations related to our receipt and use of PRF funds. These audits and investigations also may impose substantial costs and disruptions. If the government determines that we failed to comply PRF terms and conditions or related interpretative guidance, applicable grant requirements, or that our PRF applications and submissions were defective, PRF funds that we or our operators have received may be subject to recoupment or further enforcement action. This could occur even if our interpretation of PRF program requirements was reasonable under the present or then-existing PRF guidance. Government audits and investigations also could result in other regulatory penalties or enforcement actions, including actions under the False Claims Act (“FCA”), which prohibits false claims for payments to, or improper retention of overpayments from, the government. FCA litigation could be asserted directly by the federal government, or on its behalf, by private litigants as “whistleblowers.” Even if not meritorious, FCA litigation could impose significant costs and result in reputational damage and a disruption of our business. Risks Related to Our Capital Structure and Market Conditions An increase in our borrowing costs could materially adversely impact our ability to refinance existing debt, sell properties and conduct acquisition, investment and development activities, and could cause our stock price to decline. An increase in our borrowing costs reduces the amount investors are willing to pay for our common stock. Because REIT stocks are often perceived as high-yield investments, investors may perceive less relative benefit to owning REIT stocks as borrowing costs increase. Additionally, we have existing debt obligations that are variable rate obligations with interest and related payments that vary with the movement of certain indices. If interest rates increase, so would our interest costs for any variable rate debt and for new debt. This increased cost would make the financing of any acquisition and development activity more costly. In addition, an increase in interest rates could decrease the amount third parties are willing to pay for our properties, thereby limiting our ability to reposition our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. Rising borrowing costs could limit our ability to refinance existing debt when it matures, or cause us to pay higher interest rates upon refinancing and increase interest expense on refinanced indebtedness. If our prevailing borrowing costs are higher than the interest rates of our senior notes at their maturity, we will incur additional interest expense upon any replacement debt. 28 We manage a portion of our exposure to interest rate risk by accessing debt with staggered maturities and through the use of derivative instruments, primarily interest rate swap agreements. Swap agreements involve risk, including that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements, that these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes, that the amount of income we earn from hedging transactions may be limited by federal tax provisions governing REITs and that these arrangements may cause us to pay higher interest rates on our debt obligations than would otherwise be the case. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate risk could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Cash available for distribution to stockholders may be insufficient to make dividend distributions at expected levels and are made at the discretion of our Board of Directors. Decreases in cash available for distributions, including decreases related to the COVID-19 pandemic or resulting from dispositions, may result in us being unable to make dividend distributions at expected levels. Our failure to make distributions commensurate with market expectations would likely result in a decrease in the market price of our common stock. Further, all distributions are made at the discretion of our Board of Directors in accordance with Maryland law and depend on: (i) our earnings; (ii) our financial condition; (iii) debt and equity capital available to us; (iv) our expectations for future capital requirements and operating performance; (v) restrictive covenants in our financial or other contractual arrangements, including those in our credit facility agreement; (vi) maintenance of our REIT qualification; (vii) restrictions under Maryland law; and (viii) other factors as our Board of Directors may deem relevant from time to time. If access to external capital is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, it could have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet commitments as they become due or make future investments necessary to grow our business. We be unable to fund all future capital needs, including capital expenditures, debt maturities and other commitments, from cash retained from operations and dispositions. If we are unable to obtain enough internal capital, we may need to rely on external sources of capital (including debt and equity financing) to fulfill our capital requirements, which depends upon a number of factors, some of which we have little or no control over, including but not limited to: • general availability of capital, including less favorable terms, rising interest rates and increased borrowing costs; • the market price of the shares of our equity securities and the credit ratings of our debt and any preferred securities we may issue; • the market’s perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions; • our degree of financial leverage and operational flexibility; • the financial integrity of our lenders, which might impair their ability to meet their commitments to us or their willingness to make additional loans to us, and our inability to replace the financing commitment of any such lender on favorable terms, or at all; • the stability of the market value of our properties; • the financial performance and general market perception of our tenants and operators; • changes in the credit ratings on U.S. government debt securities or default or delay in payment by the United States of its obligations; • issues facing the healthcare industry, including, but not limited to, healthcare reform, changes in government reimbursement policies and the unique challenges posed by the COVID-19 pandemic; and • the performance of the national and global economies generally, including the ongoing economic downturn and volatility in the financial markets as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. If access to capital is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, it could have a material adverse impact on our ability to fund operations, repay or refinance our debt obligations, fund dividend payments, acquire properties and make the investments in development and redevelopment activities, as well an capital expenditures, needed to grow our business. 29 Our level of indebtedness may increase and materially adversely affect our future operations. Our outstanding indebtedness as of December 31, 2020 was approximately $6.30 billion. We may incur additional indebtedness which may be substantial. Any significant additional indebtedness would likely negatively affect the credit ratings of our debt and require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow to interest and principal payments. Greater demands on our cash resources may reduce funds available to us to pay dividends, conduct development activities, make capital expenditures and acquisitions or carry out other aspects of our business strategy. Increased indebtedness can also make us more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions and create competitive disadvantages for us compared to other companies with comparatively lower debt levels. Increased future debt service obligations may limit our operational flexibility, including our ability to finance or refinance our properties, contribute properties to joint ventures or sell properties as needed. Covenants in our debt instruments limit our operational flexibility, and breaches of these covenants could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The terms of our current secured and unsecured debt instruments require us to comply with a number of customary financial and other covenants, such as maintaining leverage ratios, minimum tangible net worth requirements, REIT status and certain levels of debt service coverage. Our continued ability to incur additional debt and to conduct business in general is subject to compliance with these covenants, which limits our operational flexibility. For example, mortgages on our properties contain customary covenants such as those that limit or restrict our ability, without the consent of the lender, to further encumber or sell the applicable properties, or to replace the applicable tenant or operator. Breaches of certain covenants may result in defaults under the mortgages on our properties and cross-defaults under certain of our other indebtedness, even if we satisfy our payment obligations to the respective obligee. Covenants that limit our operational flexibility as well as defaults resulting from the breach of any of these covenants could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Volatility, disruption or uncertainty in the financial markets may impair our ability to raise capital, obtain new financing or refinance existing obligations and fund real estate and development activities. Increased or prolonged market disruption, volatility or uncertainty, including disruption caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, could materially adversely impact our ability to raise capital, obtain new financing or refinance our existing obligations as they mature and fund real estate and development activities. For example, as a result of the potential or perceived impact of the pandemic on our business, lenders and other financial institutions could require us to agree to more restrictive covenants, grant liens on our assets as collateral and/or accept other terms that are not commercially beneficial to us in order to obtain financing. One or more of our lenders under our credit facility could refuse or fail to fund their financing commitment to us as a result of lender liquidity and/or viability challenges, which financing commitments we may not be able to replace on favorable terms, or at all. Market volatility could also lead to significant uncertainty in the valuation of our investments and those of our joint ventures, which may result in a substantial decrease in the value of our properties and those of our joint ventures. As a result, we may be unable to recover the carrying amount of such investments and the associated goodwill, if any, which may require us to recognize impairment charges in earnings. Risks Related to Other Events We are subject to certain provisions of Maryland law and our charter relating to business combinations which may prevent a transaction that may otherwise be in the interest of our stockholders. The Maryland Business Combination Act (the “MBCA”) provides that unless exempted, a Maryland corporation may not engage in business combinations, including a merger, consolidation, share exchange or, in circumstances specified in the statute, an asset transfer or issuance or reclassification of equity securities with an “interested stockholder” or an affiliate of an interested stockholder for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder became an interested stockholder, and thereafter unless specified criteria are met. An interested stockholder is generally a person owning or controlling, directly or indirectly, 10% or more of the voting power of the outstanding voting stock of a Maryland corporation. Unless our Board of Directors takes action to exempt us from the MBCA, it will be applicable to business combinations between us and other persons. In addition to the restrictions on business combinations contained in the MBCA, our charter also requires that, except in certain circumstances, “business combinations,” including a merger or consolidation, and certain asset transfers and issuances of securities, with a “related person,” including a beneficial owner of 10% or more of our outstanding voting stock, be approved by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 90% of our outstanding voting stock. These restrictions on business combinations may delay, defer or prevent a change of control or other transaction even if such transaction involves a premium price for our common stock or our stockholders believe that such transaction is otherwise in their best interests. 30 Environmental compliance costs and liabilities associated with our real estate-related investments may be substantial and may materially impair the value of those investments. Federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations may require us, as a current or previous owner of real estate, to investigate and clean up certain hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum released at a property. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage and for investigation and cleanup costs incurred by the third parties in connection with the contamination. The costs of cleanup and remediation could be substantial. In addition, some environmental laws create a lien on the contaminated site in favor of the government for damages and the costs it incurs in connection with the contamination. Although we currently carry environmental insurance on our properties in an amount that we believe is commercially reasonable and generally require our tenants and operators to indemnify us for environmental liabilities they cause, such liabilities could exceed the amount of our insurance, the financial ability of the tenant or operator to indemnify us or the value of the contaminated property. As the owner of a site, we may also be held liable to third parties for damages and injuries resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the site. We may also experience environmental liabilities arising from conditions not known to us. The cost of defending against these claims, complying with environmental regulatory requirements, conducting remediation of any contaminated property, or paying personal injury or other claims or fines could be substantial and could have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination may materially adversely affect our ability to use, sell or lease the property or to borrow using the property as collateral. Risks Related to Tax, including REIT-Related Risks Loss of our tax status as a REIT would substantially reduce our available funds and would have materially adverse consequences for us and the value of our common stock. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of numerous highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), for which there are limited judicial and administrative interpretations, as well as the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. We intend to continue to operate in a manner that enables us to qualify as a REIT. However, our qualification and taxation as a REIT depend upon our ability to meet, through actual annual operating results, asset diversification, distribution levels and diversity of stock ownership, the various qualification tests imposed under the Code. For example, to qualify as a REIT, at least 95% of our gross income in any year must be derived from qualifying sources, and we must make distributions to our stockholders aggregating annually to at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, excluding net capital gains. Rents we receive from a TRS in a RIDEA structure are treated as qualifying rents from real property for REIT tax purposes only if (i) they are paid pursuant to a lease of a “qualified healthcare property,” and (ii) the operator qualifies as an “eligible independent contractor,” as defined in the Code. If either of these requirements is not satisfied, then the rents will not be qualifying rents. Furthermore, new legislation, regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could change the tax laws or interpretations of the tax laws regarding qualification as a REIT, or the federal income tax consequences of that qualification, in a manner that is materially adverse to our stockholders. Accordingly, there is no assurance that we have operated or will continue to operate in a manner so as to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT. If we lose our REIT status, we will face serious tax consequences that will substantially reduce the funds available to make payments of principal and interest on the debt securities we issue and to make distributions to stockholders. If we fail to qualify as a REIT: • we will not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income; • we will be subject to corporate-level income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates; • we will be subject to increased state and local income taxes; and • unless we are entitled to relief under relevant statutory provisions, we will be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which we fail to qualify as a REIT. As a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT could also impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital and could materially adversely affect the value of our common stock. 31 Further changes to U.S. federal income tax laws could materially and adversely affect us and our stockholders. The present federal income tax treatment of REITs may be modified, possibly with retroactive effect, by legislative, judicial or administrative action at any time, which could affect the federal income tax treatment of an investment in us. The federal income tax rules dealing with U.S. federal income taxation and REITs are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) and the U.S. Treasury Department, which results in statutory changes as well as frequent revisions to regulations and interpretations. We cannot predict how changes in the tax laws might affect our investors or us. Revisions in federal tax laws and interpretations thereof could significantly and negatively affect our ability to qualify as a REIT, as well as the tax considerations relevant to an investment in us, or could cause us to change our investments and commitments. Potential deferred and contingent tax liabilities from corporate acquisitions could limit or delay future property sales. If, during the five-year period beginning on the date we acquire certain companies, we recognize a gain on the disposition of any property acquired, then, to the extent of the excess of (i) the fair market value of such property as of the acquisition date over (ii) our adjusted income tax basis in such property as of that date, we will be required to pay a corporate-level federal income tax on this gain at the highest regular corporate rate. There can be no assurance that these triggering dispositions will not occur, and these requirements could limit or delay future property sales. In addition, the IRS may assert liabilities against us for corporate income taxes for taxable years prior to the time that we acquire certain companies, in which case we will owe these taxes plus interest and penalties, if any. There are uncertainties relating to the calculation of non-REIT tax earnings and profits (“E&P”) in certain acquisitions, which may require us to distribute E&P. In order to remain qualified as a REIT, we are required to distribute to our stockholders all of the accumulated non-REIT E&P of certain companies that we acquire, prior to the close of the first taxable year in which the acquisition occurs. Failure to make such E&P distributions would result in our disqualification as a REIT. The determination of the amount to be distributed in such E&P distributions is a complex factual and legal determination. We may have less than complete information at the time we undertake our analysis, or we may interpret the applicable law differently from the IRS. We currently believe that we have satisfied the requirements relating to such E&P distributions. There are, however, substantial uncertainties relating to the determination of E&P, including the possibility that the IRS could successfully assert that the taxable income of the companies acquired should be increased, which would increase our non-REIT E&P. Thus, we might fail to satisfy the requirement that we distribute all of our non-REIT E&P by the close of the first taxable year in which the acquisition occurs. Moreover, although there are procedures available to cure a failure to distribute all of our E&P, we cannot now determine whether we will be able to take advantage of these procedures or the economic impact on us of doing so. Our charter contains ownership limits with respect to our common stock and other classes of capital stock. Our charter contains restrictions on the ownership and transfer of our common stock and preferred stock that are intended to assist us in preserving our qualification as a REIT. Under our charter, subject to certain exceptions, no person or entity may own, actually or constructively, more than 9.8% (by value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of the outstanding shares of our common stock or any class or series of our preferred stock. Additionally, our charter has a 9.9% ownership limitation on the direct or indirect ownership of our voting shares, which may include common stock or other classes of capital stock. Our Board of Directors, in its sole discretion, may exempt a proposed transferee from either ownership limit. The ownership limits may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or might otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. 32 General Risk Factors Adverse changes in our credit ratings could impair our ability to obtain additional debt and equity financing on favorable terms, if at all, and negatively impact the market price of our securities, including our common stock. Our credit ratings affect the amount and type of capital, as well as the terms of any financing we may obtain. The credit ratings of our senior unsecured debt are based on, among other things, our operating performance, liquidity and leverage ratios, overall financial position, level of indebtedness and pending or future changes in the regulatory framework applicable to our operators and our industry. If we are unable to maintain our current credit ratings, we would likely incur higher borrowing costs, which would make it more difficult or expensive to obtain additional financing or refinance existing obligations and commitments. As a result of the potential impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, in March 2020, Moody’s changed its outlook on our long-term issuer and senior unsecured debt ratings from “stable” to “negative.” Such change in outlook may ultimately lead to a downgrade in our credit ratings, which would trigger additional borrowing costs or other potentially negative consequences under our current credit facilities and debt instruments. Also, if our credit ratings are downgraded, or general market conditions were to ascribe higher risk to our ratings, our industry, or us, our access to capital and the cost of any future debt financing will be further negatively impacted. In addition, the terms of future debt agreements could include more restrictive covenants, or require incremental collateral, which may further restrict our business operations or be unavailable due to our covenant restrictions then in effect. There is no guarantee that debt or equity financings will be available in the future to fund future acquisitions or general operating expenses, or that such financing will be available on terms consistent with our historical agreements or expectations. We rely on information technology in our operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption or security failure of that technology could harm our business. We rely on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes, including financial transactions and records, and to maintain personal identifying information and tenant and lease data. We purchase some of our information technology from vendors, on whom our systems depend. We rely on commercially available systems, software, tools and monitoring to provide security for the processing, transmission and storage of confidential tenant and customer data, including individually identifiable information relating to financial accounts. Although we have taken steps to protect the security of our information systems and the data maintained in those systems, it is possible that our safety and security measures will not prevent the systems’ improper functioning or damage, or the improper access or disclosure of personally identifiable information such as in the event of cyber-attacks. The risk of security breaches has generally increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attacks and intrusions have increased, and we have seen a significant increase in cyber phishing attacks since the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic. The risk of security breaches has also increased with our increased dependence on the Internet while our employees work remotely due to shelter-in-place orders and our health and safety policies. In addition, the pace and unpredictability of cyber threats generally quickly renders long-term implementation plans designed to address cybersecurity risks obsolete. Furthermore, because our operators also rely on the internet, information technology networks, systems and software, we may be exposed to cyber-attacks on our operators. Security breaches of our or our operators’ networks and systems, including those caused by physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses, malware, worms, attacks by hackers or foreign governments, disruptions from unauthorized access and tampering, including through social engineering such as phishing attacks, coordinated denial-of-service attacks and similar breaches, could result in, among other things, system disruptions, shutdowns, unauthorized access to or disclosure of confidential information, misappropriation of our or our business partners’ proprietary or confidential information, breach of our legal, regulatory or contractual obligations, inability to access or rely upon critical business records or systems or other delays in our operations. In some cases, it may be difficult to anticipate or immediately detect such incidents and the damage they cause. We may be required to expend significant financial resources to protect against or to remediate such security breaches. In addition, our technology infrastructure and information systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss and telecommunications failures. Any failure to maintain proper function, security and availability of our and our operators’ information systems and the data maintained in those systems could interrupt our operations, damage our reputation, subject us to liability claims or regulatory penalties, harm our business relationships or increase our security and insurance costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 33 Unfavorable litigation resolution or disputes could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. From time to time, we are involved in legal proceedings, lawsuits and other claims. We may also be named as defendants in lawsuits arising out of our alleged actions or the alleged actions of our tenants and operators for which such tenants and operators have agreed to indemnify us. Furthermore, we anticipate a material increase in legal proceedings, lawsuits and other claims related to the COVID-19 pandemic. Unfavorable resolution of any such litigation may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Regardless of the outcome, litigation or other legal proceedings may result in substantial costs, disruption of our normal business operations, and the diversion of management attention. We may be unable to prevail in, or achieve a favorable settlement of, any pending or future legal action against us. The loss or limited availability of our key personnel could disrupt our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, and the value of our common stock. We depend on the efforts of our executive officers for the success of our business. Although they are covered by our Executive Severance Plan and Change in Control Plan, which provide many of the benefits typically found in executive employment agreements, none of our executive officers have employment agreements with us. Any outbreak of COVID-19 or other epidemic among our executive management, senior leaders or other personnel could inhibit our ability to conduct our business, as well as our ability to recruit, attract and retain skilled employees. The loss or limited availability of the services of any of our executive officers, or our inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel, could, at least temporarily, have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition and the value of our common stock.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The information set forth in this Item 7 is intended to provide readers with an understanding of our financial condition, changes in financial condition and results of operations. We will discuss and provide our analysis in the following order: • COVID-19 Update • 2020 Transaction Overview • Dividends • Results of Operations • Liquidity and Capital Resources • Contractual Obligations • Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements • Inflation • Non-GAAP Financial Measure Reconciliations • Critical Accounting Policies • Recent Accounting Pronouncements COVID-19 Update Beginning in late 2019, a novel strain of Coronavirus (“COVID-19”) began to spread throughout the world, including the United States, ultimately being declared a pandemic by the World Health Organization. Global health concerns and increased efforts to reduce the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic have prompted federal, state, and local governments to restrict normal daily activities, and have resulted in travel bans, quarantines, school closings, “shelter-in-place” orders requiring individuals to remain in their homes other than to conduct essential services or activities, as well as business limitations and shutdowns, which resulted in closure of many businesses deemed to be non-essential. Although some of these restrictions have since been lifted or scaled back, certain restrictions remain in place and any future surges of COVID-19 may lead to other restrictions being re-implemented in response to efforts to reduce the spread. In addition, our tenants, operators and borrowers are facing significant cost increases as a result of increased health and safety measures, including increased staffing demands for patient care and sanitation, as well as increased usage and inventory of critical medical supplies and personal protective equipment. These health and safety measures, which may remain in place for a significant amount of time or be re-imposed from time to time, continue to place a substantial strain on the business operations of many of our tenants, operators, and borrowers. Senior Housing Within our SHOP and CCRC properties, occupancy rates have declined since the onset of the pandemic, a trend that may continue during the pandemic and for some period thereafter as a result of a reduction in, or in some cases prohibitions on, new tenant move-ins due to stricter move-in criteria, lower inquiry volumes, and reduced in-person tours, as well as incidences of COVID-19 outbreaks at our facilities or the perception that outbreaks may occur. Outbreaks, which directly affect our residents and the employees at our senior housing facilities, have and could continue to materially and adversely disrupt operations, as well as cause significant reputational harm to us, our operators, and our tenants. As of February 8, 2021, we had current confirmed resident COVID-19 cases at 85 of our 95 senior housing properties, since the beginning of the pandemic. Our senior housing property operators are also experiencing significant cost increases as a result of higher staffing hours and compensation, the implementation of increased health and safety measures and protocols, and increased usage and inventory of critical medical supplies and personal protective equipment. At our SHOP and CCRC facilities, we bear these significant cost increases. 42 We and/or our operators temporarily suspended redevelopment across our senior housing portfolio due to “shelter-in-place” orders and local, state, and federal directives, except for certain life safety and essential projects. Although some of these projects have been allowed to restart with infection control protocols in place, future local, state, or federal orders could cause us to re-suspend the work. Other projects remain suspended and we do not know when we will be able to restart construction. In locations where construction continues, construction workers are following applicable guidelines, including appropriate social distancing, limitations on large group gatherings in close proximity, and increased sanitation efforts, which has slowed the pace of construction. These protective actions do not, however, eliminate the risk that outbreaks caused or spread by such activities may occur and impact our tenants, operators and residents. In addition, our planned dispositions may not occur within the expected time or at all because of buyer terminations or withdrawals related to the pandemic, capital constraints, inability to tour properties, or other factors relating to the pandemic. The ultimate impact of the pandemic on senior housing generally and the public perception of senior housing as a desirable residential setting depend on a number of factors that are unknown at this time, including, but not limited to: (i) the course and severity of the pandemic; (ii) responses of public and private health authorities; and (iii) the timing, distribution, and health effects of vaccines and other treatments. Medical Office Portfolio Within our medical office portfolio, many physician practices and affiliated hospitals initially delayed or discontinued nonessential surgeries and procedures due to “shelter-in-place” orders and other health and safety measures, which negatively impacted their cash flows during part of 2020. These restrictions have now been lifted in the majority of our markets and operations are at or near pre-pandemic levels. However, we expect that planned move-outs will be delayed during the COVID-19 pandemic, which is expected to slightly increase short-term retention in this portfolio. We implemented a deferred rent program during the second and third quarters of 2020 that was limited to certain non-health system and non-hospital tenants in good standing, which reduced our cash collections during those months, although we required that the deferred rent be repaid ratably by the end of 2020. Under this program, we agreed to defer approximately $6 million of rent through December 31, 2020, substantially all of which had been collected as of December 31, 2020. We may also implement a deferred rent program for future periods. Life Science Portfolio Within our life science portfolio, we have numerous tenants that are working tirelessly to address critical research and testing needs in the fight against COVID-19. We are focused on providing our tenants with the necessary space to complete their critical work and are in continuous contact with our tenants regarding how we can help them meet their needs. Through December 31, 2020, we had provided approximately $1 million of rent deferrals to our life science tenants, all of which was required to be repaid by the end of 2020. As of December 31, 2020, all of the deferred rent had been collected. However, within our life science portfolio, we may experience a decline in leasing activity at certain points during the COVID-19 pandemic. As a result of governmental restrictions on business activities in the greater San Francisco and Boston areas, we temporarily suspended development, redevelopment, and tenant improvement projects at many of our life science properties, resulting in delayed deliveries and project completions. Though we have been able to continue or re-start these projects, we remain subject to future governmental restrictions that may again suspend these projects. Even when these projects continue, we have been experiencing losses in efficiency as a result of the implementation of health and safety protocols related to social distancing and proper hygiene and sanitization. Liquidity We believe that we are well positioned to manage the short-term and long-term impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic and the measures to slow its spread while working closely with our tenants, operators, and borrowers as they navigate the pandemic. We had approximately $2.51 billion of liquidity available, including $2.26 billion borrowing capacity under our bank line of credit facility and $259 million of cash and cash equivalents, as of February 8, 2021. While a future downgrade in our credit ratings would adversely impact our cost of borrowing, we believe we continue to have access to the unsecured debt markets. We could also seek to enter into one or more secured debt financings, issue additional securities, including under our 2020 ATM Program (as defined below), or dispose of certain additional assets to fund future operating costs, capital expenditures, or acquisitions, although no assurances can be made in this regard. 43 Future Rent Collections The impact of COVID-19 on the ability of our tenants to pay rent in the future is currently unknown. We have, and will continue to monitor the credit quality of each of our tenants and write-off straight-line rent and accounts receivable, as necessary. In the event we conclude that substantially all of a tenant’s straight-line rent or accounts receivable is not probable of collection in the future, such amounts will be written off, which could have a material impact on our future results of operations. Employee Update We have taken, and will continue to take, proactive measures to provide for the well-being of our workforce. We have maximized our systems infrastructure as well as virtual and remote working technologies for our employees, including our executive team, to ensure productivity and connectivity internally, as well as with key third-party relationships. The extent of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business and financial results will depend on future developments, including the duration, severity, and spread of COVID-19, health and safety actions taken to contain its spread, any new surges of COVID-19, the severity of outbreak of new strains of COVID-19, the timing and distribution of vaccines and other treatments, and how quickly and to what extent normal economic and operating conditions can resume within the markets in which we operate, each of which are highly uncertain at this time and outside of our control. 2020 Transaction Overview South San Francisco Land Site Acquisition In October 2020, we executed a definitive agreement to acquire approximately 12 acres of land for $128 million. The acquisition site is located in South San Francisco, CA, adjacent to two sites currently held by us as land for future development. We made a $10 million nonrefundable deposit upon completing due diligence in November 2020 and expect to close the transaction in 2021. Cambridge Discovery Park Acquisition In December 2020, we acquired three life science facilities in Cambridge, Massachusetts for $610 million and a 49% unconsolidated joint venture interest in a fourth property on the same campus for $54 million. Midwest MOB Acquisition In October 2020, we acquired a portfolio of seven MOBs located in Indiana, Missouri, and Illinois, for $169 million. Scottsdale Gateway Acquisition In July 2020, we acquired one MOB in Scottsdale, Arizona, for $27 million. The Post Acquisition In April 2020, we acquired a life science campus in Waltham, Massachusetts for $320 million. Master Transaction and Cooperation Agreement with Brookdale In January 2020, Healthpeak and Brookdale Senior Living Inc. (“Brookdale”) completed certain of the transactions governed by the previously announced Master Transactions and Cooperation Agreement (the “2019 MTCA”), which includes a series of transactions related to the previously jointly owned 15-campus CCRC portfolio (the “CCRC JV”) and the portfolio of senior housing properties that were triple-net leased to Brookdale. Specifically, the following transactions were completed on January 31, 2020: • We acquired Brookdale’s 51% interest in 13 of the 15 communities in the CCRC JV based on a valuation of $1.06 billion (the “CCRC Acquisition”) and transitioned management (under new management agreements) of those 13 communities to Life Care Services LLC (“LCS”); • We paid Brookdale $100 million to terminate the previous management agreements related to those 13 communities; • Brookdale acquired 18 of the triple-net lease properties (the “Brookdale Acquisition Assets”) from us for cash proceeds of $385 million; • The remaining 24 triple-net lease properties, which were subsequently sold in January 2021 (see Senior Housing Portfolio Sales below), were restructured into a single master lease with 2.4% annual rent escalators and a maturity date of December 31, 2027 (the “2019 Amended Master Lease”); • A portion of annual rent (amount in excess of 6.5% of sales proceeds) related to 14 of the 18 Brookdale Acquisition Assets was reallocated to the remaining properties under the 2019 Amended Master Lease; and 44 • Brookdale paid down $20 million of future rent under the 2019 Amended Master Lease. Senior Housing Portfolio Sales • In December 2020, we sold a portfolio of ten senior housing triple-net assets for $358 million. • In November 2020, we entered into definitive agreements to sell a portfolio of 13 SHOP assets for $334 million. We sold 12 of the assets for $312 million in December 2020 and provided the buyer with financing of $61 million on four of the assets sold. We expect to sell the final asset during the first half of 2021, upon completion of the license transfer process. • In October 2020, we entered into a definitive agreement to sell seven SHOP assets for $115 million . We received a $3 million nonrefundable deposit and expect to close the transaction during the first half of 2021. • In November 2020, we entered into a definitive agreement to sell 32 SHOP and 2 senior housing triple-net assets for $744 million. We received a $35 million nonrefundable deposit upon completion of due diligence in December 2020, sold the 32 SHOP assets in January 2021 for $664 million, and provided the buyer with financing of $410 million . The two senior housing triple-net assets are expected to sell during the first half of 2021, upon completion of the license transfer process. • In January 2021, we sold 24 senior housing assets under a triple-net lease with Brookdale for $510 million. • In January 2021, we sold a portfolio of 16 SHOP assets for $230 million and provided the buyer with financing of $150 million . • In February 2021, we sold eight senior housing assets in a triple-net lease with Harbor Retirement Associates for $132 million. Other Real Estate Transactions • In addition to the sales discussed above, during the year ended December 31, 2020, we sold the following: (i) 23 SHOP assets for $190 million, (ii) 21 senior housing triple-net assets for $428 million ( inclusive of the 18 facilities sold to Brookdale under the 2019 MTCA) , (iii) 11 MOBs for $136 million (inclusive of the exercise of a purchase option by one of our tenants to acquire 3 MOBs), (iv) two MOB land parcels for $3 million, and 1 asset from other non-reportable segments for $1 million. • In February 2020, we sold a hospital under a DFL for $82 million . • In December 2020, we acquired one hospital in Dallas, Texas for $34 million. • During the year ended December 31, 2020, we converted: (i) 13 senior housing triple-net assets with Capital Senior Living Corporation (“CSL”) to a RIDEA structure, with CSL remaining as the manager, (ii) 1 senior housing triple-net asset with CSL to a RIDEA structure with Discovery Senior Living, LLC as the operator, (iii) 2 senior housing triple-net assets with HRA Senior Living (“HRA”) to a RIDEA structure, with HRA remaining as the manager, and (iv) 1 senior housing triple-net asset with Brookdale to a RIDEA structure. Financing Activities • During the year ended December 31, 2020, we utilized the forward provisions under the at-the-market equity offering program established in February 2019 (the “2019 ATM Program”) to allow for the sale of up to an aggregate of 2.0 million shares of our common stock at an initial weighted average net price of $35.23 per share, after commissions. • During the year ended December 31, 2020, we settled all 32.5 million shares previously outstanding under (i) ATM forward contracts and (ii) a 2019 forward equity sales agreement at a weighted average net price of $32.73 per share, after commissions, resulting in net proceeds of $1.06 billion. • In June 2020, we completed a public offering of $600 million aggregate principal amount of 2.88% senior unsecured notes due in 2031 (the “2031 Notes”). • In June 2020, using a portion of the net proceeds from the 2031 Notes offering, we repurchased $250 million aggregate principal amount of our 4.25% senior unsecured notes due in 2023. • In July 2020, using an additional portion of the net proceeds from the 2031 Notes offering, we redeemed all $300 million aggregate principal amount of our 3.15% senior unsecured notes due in 2022. • During the first quarter of 2021, we repurchased $112 million aggregate principal amount of our 4.25% senior unsecured notes due in 2023, $201 million aggregate principal amount of our 4.20% senior unsecured notes due in 2024, and $469 million aggregate principal amount of our 3.88% senior unsecured notes due in 2024. 45 Development Activities • As part of the development program with HCA Healthcare Inc., at December 31, 2020, we had four MOB developments, all of which are on-campus, under contract with an aggregate total estimated cost of $117 million. • At December 31, 2020, we had five life science development projects in process with an aggregate total estimated cost of $855 million. Dividends Quarterly cash dividends paid during 2020 aggregated to $1.48 per share. On February 9, 2021, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.30 per common share. The dividend will be paid on March 5, 2021 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on February 22, 2021. Results of Operations We evaluate our business and allocate resources among our reportable business segments: (i) life science, (ii) medical office, and (iii) CCRC. Under the life science and medical office segments, we invest through the acquisition and development of life science facilities, MOBs, and hospitals, which generally require a greater level of property management. Our CCRCs are operated through RIDEA structures. We have other non-reportable segments that are comprised primarily of interests in an unconsolidated senior housing joint venture and debt investments. We evaluate performance based upon property adjusted net operating income (“Adjusted NOI” or “Cash NOI”) in each segment. The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in the summary of significant accounting policies (see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). In conjunction with classifying our senior housing triple-net and SHOP portfolios as discontinued operations as of December 31, 2020, the results of operations related to those portfolios are no longer presented in reportable business segments. Accordingly, results of operations of those portfolios are not included in the reportable business segment analysis below. Refer to Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding discontinued operations. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Net Operating Income NOI and Adjusted NOI are non-U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) supplemental financial measures used to evaluate the operating performance of real estate. NOI is defined as real estate revenues (inclusive of rental and related revenues, resident fees and services, income from direct financing leases, and government grant income and exclusive of interest income), less property level operating expenses (which exclude transition costs); NOI excludes all other financial statement amounts included in net income (loss) as presented in Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Adjusted NOI is calculated as NOI after eliminating the effects of straight-line rents, DFL non-cash interest, amortization of market lease intangibles, termination fees, actuarial reserves for insurance claims that have been incurred but not reported, and the impact of deferred community fee income and expense. NOI and Adjusted NOI include our share of income (loss) generated by unconsolidated joint ventures and exclude noncontrolling interests’ share of income (loss) generated by consolidated joint ventures. Adjusted NOI is oftentimes referred to as “Cash NOI.” Management believes NOI and Adjusted NOI are important supplemental measures because they provide relevant and useful information by reflecting only income and operating expense items that are incurred at the property level and present them on an unlevered basis. We use NOI and Adjusted NOI to make decisions about resource allocations, to assess and compare property level performance, and to evaluate our Same-Store (“SS”) performance, as described below. We believe that net income (loss) is the most directly comparable GAAP measure to NOI and Adjusted NOI. NOI and Adjusted NOI should not be viewed as alternative measures of operating performance to net income (loss) as defined by GAAP since they do not reflect various excluded items. Further, our definitions of NOI and Adjusted NOI may not be comparable to the definitions used by other REITs or real estate companies, as they may use different methodologies for calculating NOI and Adjusted NOI. For a reconciliation of NOI and Adjusted NOI to net income (loss) by segment, refer to Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Operating expenses generally relate to leased medical office and life science properties, as well as SHOP and CCRC facilities. We generally recover all or a portion of our leased medical office and life science property expenses through tenant recoveries. We present expenses as operating or general and administrative based on the underlying nature of the expense. 46 Same-Store Same-Store NOI and Adjusted (Cash) NOI information allows us to evaluate the performance of our property portfolio under a consistent population by eliminating changes in the composition of our consolidated portfolio of properties. Same-Store Adjusted NOI excludes amortization of deferred revenue from tenant-funded improvements and certain non-property specific operating expenses that are allocated to each operating segment on a consolidated basis. Properties are included in Same-Store once they are stabilized for the full period in both comparison periods. Newly acquired operating assets are generally considered stabilized at the earlier of lease-up (typically when the tenant(s) control(s) the physical use of at least 80% of the space) or 12 months from the acquisition date. Newly completed developments and redevelopments are considered stabilized at the earlier of lease-up or 24 months from the date the property is placed in service. Properties that experience a change in reporting structure, such as a conversion from a triple-net lease to a RIDEA reporting structure, are considered stabilized after 12 months in operations under a consistent reporting structure. A property is removed from Same-Store when it is classified as held for sale, sold, placed into redevelopment, experiences a casualty event that significantly impacts operations, a change in reporting structure or operator transition has been agreed to, or a significant tenant relocates from a Same-Store property to a non Same-Store property and that change results in a corresponding increase in revenue. We do not report Same-Store metrics for our other non-reportable segments. For a reconciliation of Same-Store to total portfolio Adjusted NOI and other relevant disclosures by segment, refer to our Segment Analysis below. Funds From Operations ("FFO") FFO encompasses NAREIT FFO and FFO as Adjusted, each of which is described in detail below. We believe FFO applicable to common shares, diluted FFO applicable to common shares, and diluted FFO per common share are important supplemental non-GAAP measures of operating performance for a REIT. Because the historical cost accounting convention used for real estate assets utilizes straight-line depreciation (except on land), such accounting presentation implies that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time. Since real estate values instead have historically risen and fallen with market conditions, presentations of operating results for a REIT that use historical cost accounting for depreciation could be less informative. The term FFO was designed by the REIT industry to address this issue. NAREIT FFO .  FFO, as defined by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (“NAREIT”), is net income (loss) applicable to common shares (computed in accordance with GAAP), excluding gains or losses from sales of depreciable property, including any current and deferred taxes directly associated with sales of depreciable property, impairments of, or related to, depreciable real estate, plus real estate and other real estate-related depreciation and amortization, and adjustments to compute our share of NAREIT FFO and FFO as Adjusted (see below) from joint ventures. Adjustments for joint ventures are calculated to reflect our pro-rata share of both our consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures. We reflect our share of NAREIT FFO for unconsolidated joint ventures by applying our actual ownership percentage for the period to the applicable reconciling items on an entity by entity basis. For consolidated joint ventures in which we do not own 100%, we reflect our share of the equity by adjusting our NAREIT FFO to remove the third party ownership share of the applicable reconciling items based on actual ownership percentage for the applicable periods. Our pro-rata share information is prepared on a basis consistent with the comparable consolidated amounts, is intended to reflect our proportionate economic interest in the operating results of properties in our portfolio and is calculated by applying our actual ownership percentage for the period. We do not control the unconsolidated joint ventures, and the pro-rata presentations of reconciling items included in NAREIT FFO do not represent our legal claim to such items. The joint venture members or partners are entitled to profit or loss allocations and distributions of cash flows according to the joint venture agreements, which provide for such allocations generally according to their invested capital. The presentation of pro-rata information has limitations, which include, but are not limited to, the following: (i) the amounts shown on the individual line items were derived by applying our overall economic ownership interest percentage determined when applying the equity method of accounting and do not necessarily represent our legal claim to the assets and liabilities, or the revenues and expenses and (ii) other companies in our industry may calculate their pro-rata interest differently, limiting the usefulness as a comparative measure. Because of these limitations, the pro-rata financial information should not be considered independently or as a substitute for our financial statements as reported under GAAP. We compensate for these limitations by relying primarily on our GAAP financial statements, using the pro-rata financial information as a supplement. NAREIT FFO does not represent cash generated from operating activities in accordance with GAAP, is not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund cash needs and should not be considered an alternative to net income (loss). We compute NAREIT FFO in accordance with the current NAREIT definition; however, other REITs may report NAREIT FFO differently or have a different interpretation of the current NAREIT definition from ours. 47 FFO as Adjusted .  In addition, we present NAREIT FFO on an adjusted basis before the impact of non-comparable items including, but not limited to, transaction-related items, impairments (recoveries) of non-depreciable assets, losses (gains) from the sale of non-depreciable assets, restructuring and severance related charges, prepayment costs (benefits) associated with early retirement or payment of debt, litigation costs (recoveries), casualty-related charges (recoveries), foreign currency remeasurement losses (gains), deferred tax asset valuation allowances, and changes in tax legislation (“FFO as Adjusted”). Transaction-related items include transaction expenses and gains/charges incurred as a result of mergers and acquisitions and lease amendment or termination activities. Prepayment costs (benefits) associated with early retirement of debt include the write-off of unamortized deferred financing fees, or additional costs, expenses, discounts, make-whole payments, penalties or premiums incurred as a result of early retirement or payment of debt. Management believes that FFO as Adjusted provides a meaningful supplemental measurement of our FFO run-rate and is frequently used by analysts, investors, and other interested parties in the evaluation of our performance as a REIT. At the same time that NAREIT created and defined its FFO measure for the REIT industry, it also recognized that “management of each of its member companies has the responsibility and authority to publish financial information that it regards as useful to the financial community.” We believe stockholders, potential investors, and financial analysts who review our operating performance are best served by an FFO run-rate earnings measure that includes certain other adjustments to net income (loss), in addition to adjustments made to arrive at the NAREIT defined measure of FFO. FFO as Adjusted is used by management in analyzing our business and the performance of our properties and we believe it is important that stockholders, potential investors, and financial analysts understand this measure used by management. We use FFO as Adjusted to: (i) evaluate our performance in comparison with expected results and results of previous periods, relative to resource allocation decisions, (ii) evaluate the performance of our management, (iii) budget and forecast future results to assist in the allocation of resources, (iv) assess our performance as compared with similar real estate companies and the industry in general, and (v) evaluate how a specific potential investment will impact our future results. Other REITs or real estate companies may use different methodologies for calculating an adjusted FFO measure, and accordingly, our FFO as Adjusted may not be comparable to those reported by other REITs. For a reconciliation of net income (loss) to NAREIT FFO and FFO as Adjusted and other relevant disclosure, refer to “Non-GAAP Financial Measures Reconciliations” below. Adjusted FFO (“AFFO”) AFFO is defined as FFO as Adjusted after excluding the impact of the following: (i) amortization of deferred compensation expense, (ii) amortization of deferred financing costs, net, (iii) straight-line rents, (iv) deferred income taxes, (v) amortization of acquired market lease intangibles, net, (vi) non-cash interest related to DFLs and lease incentive amortization (reduction of straight-line rents), (vii) actuarial reserves for insurance claims that have been incurred but not reported, and (viii) deferred revenues, excluding amounts amortized into rental income that are associated with tenant funded improvements owned/recognized by us and up-front cash payments made by tenants to reduce their contractual rents. Also, AFFO: (i) is computed after deducting recurring capital expenditures, including second generation leasing costs and second generation tenant and capital improvements and (ii) includes lease restructure payments and adjustments to compute our share of AFFO from our unconsolidated joint ventures. Certain prior period amounts in the “Non-GAAP Financial Measures Reconciliation” below for AFFO have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. More specifically, recurring capital expenditures, including second generation leasing costs and second generation tenant and capital improvements ("AFFO capital expenditures") excludes our share from unconsolidated joint ventures (reported in “other AFFO adjustments”). Adjustments for joint ventures are calculated to reflect our pro-rata share of both our consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures. We reflect our share of AFFO for unconsolidated joint ventures by applying our actual ownership percentage for the period to the applicable reconciling items on an entity by entity basis. We reflect our share for consolidated joint ventures in which we do not own 100% of the equity by adjusting our AFFO to remove the third party ownership share of the applicable reconciling items based on actual ownership percentage for the applicable periods (reported in “other AFFO adjustments”). See FFO for further disclosure regarding our use of pro-rata share information and its limitations. Other REITs or real estate companies may use different methodologies for calculating AFFO, and accordingly, our AFFO may not be comparable to those reported by other REITs. Although our AFFO computation may not be comparable to that of other REITs, management believes AFFO provides a meaningful supplemental measure of our performance and is frequently used by analysts, investors, and other interested parties in the evaluation of our performance as a REIT. We believe AFFO is an alternative run-rate earnings measure that improves the understanding of our operating results among investors and makes comparisons with: (i) expected results, (ii) results of previous periods, and (iii) results among REITs more meaningful. AFFO does not represent cash generated from operating activities determined in accordance with GAAP and is not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund cash needs as it excludes the following items which generally flow through our cash flows from operating activities: (i) adjustments for changes in working capital or the actual timing of the payment of income or expense items that are accrued in the period, (ii) transaction-related costs, (iii) litigation settlement expenses, (iv) severance-related expenses, and (v) actual cash receipts from interest income recognized on loans receivable (in contrast to our AFFO adjustment to exclude non-cash interest and depreciation related to our investments in direct financing leases). Furthermore, AFFO is adjusted for recurring capital expenditures, which are generally not considered when determining cash flows from operations or liquidity. AFFO is a non-GAAP supplemental financial measure and should not be considered as an alternative to net income (loss) determined in 48 accordance with GAAP. For a reconciliation of net income (loss) to AFFO and other relevant disclosure, refer to “Non-GAAP Financial Measures Reconciliations” below. Comparison of the Year Ended December 31, 2020 to the Year Ended December 31, 2019 and the Year Ended December 31, 2019 to the Year Ended December 31, 2018 Overview (1) 2020 and 2019 The following table summarizes results for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 (dollars in thousands): _______________________________________ (1) For the reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures, see “Non-GAAP Financial Measure Reconciliations” below. Net income (loss) applicable to common shares (“net income (loss)”) increased primarily as a result of the following: • an increase in other income, net as a result of: (i) a gain upon change of control related to the acquisition of the outstanding equity interests in 13 CCRCs from Brookdale during the first quarter of 2020, (ii) a gain on sale related to the sale of a hospital underlying a DFL during the first quarter of 2020, and (iii) government grant income received under the Coronavirus Aid, Relief and Economic Security Act (“CARES Act”) during 2020; • an increase in net gain on sales of real estate during 2020; • an increase in interest income, primarily as a result of new loans and additional funding of existing loans; • a decrease in loss on debt extinguishments; • an increase in income tax benefit as a result of (i) the above-mentioned acquisition of Brookdale’s interest in 13 CCRCs and related management termination fee expense paid to Brookdale in connection with transitioning management to LCS during the first quarter of 2020 and (ii) the extension of the net operating loss carryback provided by the CARES Act, partially offset by additional income tax expense due to a deferred tax asset valuation allowance; and • NOI generated from: (i) 2019 and 2020 acquisitions of real estate, (ii) development and redevelopment projects placed in service during 2019 and 2020, and (iii) new leasing activity in 2019 and 2020 (including the impact to straight-line rents). The increase in net income (loss) was partially offset by: • a reduction in income related to assets sold during 2019 and 2020; • additional expense due to the management termination fee paid to Brookdale in connection with transitioning management of 13 CCRCs to LCS during the first quarter of 2020; • additional expenses and decreased occupancy in our SHOP and CCRC assets related to COVID-19; • a reduction in equity income (loss) from unconsolidated joint ventures during 2020 primarily due to our share of net losses from an unconsolidated joint venture owning 19 senior housing assets that was formed in December 2019; • increased depreciation and amortization expense as a result of: (i) assets acquired during 2019 and 2020, (ii) the acquisition of Brookdale’s interest in and consolidation of 13 CCRCs during the first quarter of 2020, and (iii) development and redevelopment projects placed into service during 2019 and 2020, partially offset by dispositions of real estate throughout 2019 and 2020; and • increased credit losses related to loans receivable as a result of: (i) adopting the current expected credit losses model required under Accounting Standards Update (“ASU”) No. 2016-13, Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments (“ASU 2016-13”), (ii) new loans funded during 2020, and (iii) the impact of COVID-19 on expected credit losses. 49 NAREIT FFO decreased primarily as a result of the aforementioned events impacting net income (loss), except for the following, which are excluded from NAREIT FFO: • net gain on sales of depreciable real estate; • the gain upon change of control related to the acquisition of Brookdale’s interest in 13 CCRCs; and • depreciation and amortization expense. FFO as Adjusted increased primarily as a result of the aforementioned events impacting NAREIT FFO, except for the following, which are excluded from FFO as Adjusted: • deferred tax asset valuation allowance; • net gain on sales of assets underlying DFLs and non-depreciable assets, such as land; • losses on debt extinguishment; and • the increase in credit losses. AFFO increased primarily as a result of the aforementioned events impacting FFO as Adjusted, except for the impact of straight-line rents and the increase in deferred tax benefit, which are excluded from AFFO. 2019 and 2018 The following table summarizes results for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 (dollars in thousands): Net income (loss) applicable to common shares (“net income (loss)”) decreased primarily as a result of the following: • a reduction in NOI as a result of asset sales during 2018 and 2019; • a larger net gain on sales of real estate during 2018 compared to 2019, primarily related to the sale of our Shoreline Technology Center life science campus in November 2018; • increased depreciation and amortization expense as a result of: (i) assets acquired during 2018 and 2019, (ii) development and redevelopment projects placed into service during 2018 and 2019, and (iii) the conversion of 14 senior housing triple-net assets from a DFL to a RIDEA structure in 2019, partially offset by decreased depreciation and amortization from asset sales during 2018 and 2019; • an increase in loss on debt extinguishments, resulting from redemptions and repurchases of senior unsecured notes in 2019; and • increased impairment charges on real estate assets recognized during 2019 compared to 2018. The decrease in net income (loss) was partially offset by: • increased NOI from: (i) annual rent escalations, (ii) 2018 and 2019 acquisitions, and (iii) development and redevelopment projects placed in service during 2018 and 2019; • a reduction in interest expense as a result of debt repayments during 2018 and 2019; and • an increase in other income, primarily resulting from: (i) a gain upon change of control of 19 SHOP assets in 2019, and (ii) a loss on consolidation of seven care homes in the U.K. during the first quarter of 2018, partially offset by a gain upon change of control related to the acquisition of the outstanding equity interests in three life science joint ventures in November 2018. 50 NAREIT FFO increased primarily as a result of the aforementioned events impacting net income (loss), except for the following, which are excluded from NAREIT FFO: • gains on sales of real estate, including related tax impacts; • depreciation and amortization expense; • impairments charges on real estate assets; and • gains and losses upon change of control. FFO as Adjusted increased primarily as a result of the aforementioned events impacting NAREIT FFO, except for losses on debt extinguishment, which are excluded from FFO as Adjusted. AFFO decreased primarily as a result of the aforementioned events impacting FFO as Adjusted, except for the impact of straight-line rents, which is excluded from AFFO. The decrease in AFFO was also partially due to increased AFFO capital expenditures during 2019. Segment Analysis The following tables provide selected operating information for our Same-Store and total property portfolio for each of our reportable segments. For the year ended December 31, 2020, our Same-Store consists of 341 properties representing properties acquired or placed in service and stabilized on or prior to January 1, 2019 and that remained in operations under a consistent reporting structure through December 31, 2020. For the year ended December 31, 2019, our Same-Store consisted of 334 properties acquired or placed in service and stabilized on or prior to January 1, 2018 and that remained in operations under a consistent reporting structure through December 31, 2019. Our total property portfolio consisted of 457, 453, and 516 properties at December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively. 51 Life Science 2020 and 2019 The following table summarizes results at and for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 (dollars and square feet in thousands, except per square foot data): _______________________________________ (1) Total Portfolio includes results of operations from disposed properties through the disposition date. (2) Represents adjustments to NOI in accordance with the Company’s definition of Adjusted NOI. Refer to “Non-GAAP Measures” above for definitions of NOI and Adjusted NOI. (3) From our 2019 presentation of Same-Store, we removed one life science facility that was placed in redevelopment and one life science facility related to a significant tenant relocation . (4) Base rent does not include tenant recoveries, additional rents in excess of floors and non-cash revenue adjustments (i.e., straight-line rents, amortization of market lease intangibles, DFL non-cash interest, and deferred revenues). Same-Store Adjusted NOI increased primarily as a result of the following: • annual rent escalations; • new leasing activity; and • mark-to-market lease renewals. Total Portfolio Adjusted NOI increased primarily as a result of the aforementioned impacts to Same-Store and the following Non-Same-Store impacts: • NOI from (i) increased occupancy in developments and redevelopments placed into service in 2019 and 2020 and (ii) acquisitions in 2019 and 2020; partially offset by • decreased NOI from the placement of facilities into redevelopment in 2019 and 2020. 52 2019 and 2018 The following table summarizes results at and for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 (dollars and square feet in thousands, except per square foot data): _______________________________________ (1) Total Portfolio includes results of operations from disposed properties through the disposition date. (2) Represents adjustments to NOI in accordance with the Company’s definition of Adjusted NOI. Refer to “Non-GAAP Measures” above for definitions of NOI and Adjusted NOI. (3) From our 2018 presentation of Same-Store, we removed one life science facility that was sold, two life science facilities that were placed into redevelopment, and one life science facility related to a casualty event. (4) Base rent does not include tenant recoveries, additional rents in excess of floors and non-cash revenue adjustments (i.e., straight-line rents, amortization of market lease intangibles, DFL non-cash interest, and deferred revenues). Same-Store Adjusted NOI increased primarily as a result of the following: • new leasing activity; • mark-to-market lease renewals; • increased occupancy; and • annual rent escalations. Total Portfolio Adjusted NOI increased primarily as a result of the aforementioned increases to Same-Store and the following Non-Same-Store impacts: • NOI from (i) increased occupancy in developments and redevelopments placed into service in 2018 and 2019 and (ii) acquisitions in 2019; partially offset by • decreased NOI from facilities sold in 2018 and 2019 and the placement of facilities into redevelopment in 2019. 53 Medical Office 2020 and 2019 The following table summarizes results at and for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 (dollars and square feet in thousands, except per square foot data): _______________________________________ (1) Total Portfolio includes results of operations from disposed properties through the disposition date. (2) Represents adjustments to NOI in accordance with the Company’s definition of Adjusted NOI. Refer to “Non-GAAP Measures” above for definitions of NOI and Adjusted NOI. (3) From our 2019 presentation of Same-Store, we removed 10 MOBs that were sold, 6 MOBs that were classified as held for sale, and3 MOBs that were placed into redevelopment. (4) Base rent does not include tenant recoveries, additional rents in excess of floors and non-cash revenue adjustments (i.e., straight-line rents, amortization of market lease intangibles, DFL non-cash interest, and deferred revenues). Same-Store Adjusted NOI increased primarily as a result of the following: • mark-to-market lease renewals; and • annual rent escalations; partially offset by • lower parking income. Total Portfolio Adjusted NOI decreased primarily as a result of MOB sales during 2019 and 2020, partially offset by the aforementioned increases to Same-Store and the following Non-Same-Store impacts: • NOI from our 2019 and 2020 acquisitions; and • increased occupancy in former redevelopment and development properties that have been placed into service. 54 2019 and 2018 The following table summarizes results at and for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 (dollars and square feet in thousands, except per square foot data): _______________________________________ (1) Total Portfolio includes results of operations from disposed properties through the disposition date. (2) Represents adjustments to NOI in accordance with the Company’s definition of Adjusted NOI. Refer to “Non-GAAP Measures” above for definitions of NOI and Adjusted NOI. (3) From our 2018 presentation of Same-Store, we removed eight MOBs that were sold, three MOBs that were placed into redevelopment, and two MOBs that were classified as held for sale. (4) Base rent does not include tenant recoveries, additional rents in excess of floors and non-cash revenue adjustments (i.e., straight-line rents, amortization of market lease intangibles, DFL non-cash interest, and deferred revenues). Same-Store Adjusted NOI increased primarily as a result of the following: • mark-to-market lease renewals; and • annual rent escalations. Total Portfolio Adjusted NOI increased primarily as a result of the aforementioned increases to Same-Store and the following Non-Same-Store impacts: • 2018 and 2019 acquisitions; and • increased occupancy in former development and redevelopment properties placed into service; partially offset by • dispositions during 2018 and 2019. 55 Continuing Care Retirement Community 2020 and 2019 The following table summarizes results at and for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 (dollars in thousands, except per unit data): _______________________________________ (1) All CCRC properties are excluded from the Same-Store population as they experienced a change in reporting structure, underwent an operator transition during the periods presented, or are classified as held for sale. As such, no Same-Store results are presented in the table above. (2) Total Portfolio includes results of operations from disposed properties and properties that transferred segments through the disposition or transfer date. (3) Represents government grant income received under the CARES Act, which is recorded in other income (expense), net in the consolidated statements of operations. (4) Represents adjustments to NOI in accordance with the Company’s definition of Adjusted NOI. Refer to “Non-GAAP Measures” above for definitions of NOI and Adjusted NOI. (5) Represents average capacity as reported by the respective tenants or operators for the 12-month period. Total Portfolio Adjusted NOI increased primarily as a result of the following: • the acquisition of the remaining 51% interest in 13 communities previously held in a joint venture during the first quarter of 2020; and • the transfer of two CCRC properties that converted from triple-net leases to RIDEA structures during the fourth quarter of 2019. 56 2019 and 2018 The following table summarizes results at and for the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 (dollars in thousands, except per unit data): _____________________________________ (1) All CCRC properties are excluded from the Same-Store population as they experienced a change in reporting structure, underwent an operator transition during the periods presented, or are classified as held for sale. As such, no Same-Store results are presented in the table above. (2) Total Portfolio includes results of operations from disposed properties and properties that transferred segments through the disposition or transfer date. (3) Represents adjustments to NOI in accordance with the Company’s definition of Adjusted NOI. Refer to “Non-GAAP Measures” above for definitions of NOI and Adjusted NOI. (4) Represents average capacity as reported by the respective tenants or operators for the 12-month period. Total Portfolio Adjusted NOI increased as a result of the transfer of two CCRC properties that converted from triple-net leases to RIDEA structures during the fourth quarter of 2019 and an increase in our share of Total Portfolio Adjusted NOI from the CCRC JV. 57 Other Income and Expense Items The following table summarizes results for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 (in thousands): Interest income Interest income increased for the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily as a result of new loans and additional funding of existing loans. Interest expense Interest expense decreased for the year ended December 31, 2019 primarily as a result of senior unsecured notes repurchases and redemptions during 2018 and 2019, partially offset by senior unsecured notes issued during 2019. Depreciation and amortization expense Depreciation and amortization expense increased for the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily as a result of: (i) the acquisition of Brookdale’s interest in and consolidation of 13 CCRCs during the first quarter of 2020, (ii) assets acquired during 2019 and 2020, and (iii) development and redevelopment projects placed into service during 2019 and 2020. The increase was partially offset by dispositions of real estate throughout 2019 and 2020. Depreciation and amortization expense increased for the year ended December 31, 2019 primarily as a result of (i) assets acquired during 2018 and 2019 and (ii) development and redevelopment projects placed into service during 2018 and 2019, partially offset by dispositions of real estate throughout 2018 and 2019. General and administrative expense General and administrative expenses decreased for the year ended December 31, 2019 primarily as a result of decreased severance and related charges, driven by the departure of our former Executive Chairman in March 2018, partially offset by higher compensation costs in 2019. Transaction costs Transaction costs increased for the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily as a result of costs associated with the transition of 13 CCRCs from Brookdale to LCS in January 2020. Impairments and loan loss reserves (recoveries), net The impairment charges recognized in each period vary depending on facts and circumstances related to each asset and are impacted by negotiations with potential buyers, current operations of the assets, and other factors. 58 Impairments and loan loss reserves (recoveries), net increased for the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily as a result of: (i) an increase related to buildings we intend to demolish and (ii) an increase in credit losses under the current expected credit losses model (which we began using in conjunction with our adoption of ASU 2016-13 on January 1, 2020). Impairments and loan loss reserves (recoveries), net increased for the year ended December 31, 2019 as a result of additional assets being impaired under the held-for-sale impairment model. Gain (loss) on sales of real estate, net During the year ended December 31, 2020, we sold: (i) 11 MOBs, (ii) 2 MOB land parcels, and (iii) 1 facility from the other non-reportable segment, resulting in total gain on sales of $90 million. During the year ended December 31, 2019, we sold: (i) our remaining 49% interest in our U.K. joint venture, (ii) 11 MOBs, (iii) 1 life science asset, (iv) 1 undeveloped life science land parcel, and (v) 1 facility from other non-reportable segments, resulting in no material gain or loss on sale. During the year ended December 31, 2018, we sold: (i) a 51% interest in substantially all the U.K. assets previously owned by the Company, (ii) 16 life science assets, and (iii) 4 MOBs, resulting in total gain on sales of $831 million. Loss on debt extinguishments Refer to Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding unsecured note repurchases, repayments, and redemptions and the associated loss on debt extinguishments recognized. Other income (expense), net Other income (expense), net increased for the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily as a result of: (i) a gain upon change of control related to the acquisition of the outstanding equity interest in 13 CCRCs from Brookdale during the first quarter of 2020; (ii) a gain on sale related to the sale of a hospital underlying a DFL during the first quarter of 2020; and (iii) government grant income received under the CARES Act during 2020. The increase was partially offset by a gain upon change of control recognized in 2019 related to a senior housing joint venture with a sovereign wealth fund (see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Other income (expense), net increased for the year ended December 31, 2019 primarily as a result of (i) a gain upon change of control recognized in 2019 related to a senior housing joint venture with a sovereign wealth fund and (ii) a loss upon change of control of seven U.K. care homes in March 2018 (see Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). The increase in other income (expense), net was partially offset by a gain upon change of control related to the acquisition of the outstanding equity interests in three life science joint ventures in November 2018. Income tax benefit (expense) Income tax benefit increased for the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily as a result of the tax benefits related to the purchase of Brookdale’s interest in 13 of the 15 communities in the CCRC JV, including the management termination fee expense paid to Brookdale in connection with transitioning management of 13 CCRCs to LCS, and the extension of the net operating loss carryback period provided by the CARES Act, partially offset by a deferred tax asset valuation allowance and corresponding income tax expense recognized in 2020. Equity income (loss) from unconsolidated joint ventures Equity income from unconsolidated joint ventures decreased for the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily as a result of our share of net losses from an unconsolidated joint venture owning 19 SHOP assets that was formed in December 2019, partially offset by no longer recognizing the operating results of 13 CCRCs in equity income (loss) from unconsolidated joint ventures as we acquired Brookdale’s interest and now consolidate those facilities. The decrease is further offset by our share of a gain on sale of one asset in an unconsolidated joint venture during the first quarter of 2020. Equity income from unconsolidated joint ventures decreased for the year ended December 31, 2019 primarily as a result of an impairment charge recognized related to one asset classified as held-for-sale in the CCRC JV (see Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements) and the sale of our equity method investment in RIDEA II in June 2018, partially offset by additional equity income from our previously-held investment in the U.K. JV. 59 Income (loss) from discontinued operations Income from discontinued operations increased for the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily as a result of: (i) increased gain on sales of real estate from the disposal of multiple senior housing portfolios during 2019 and 2020; (ii) decreased depreciation and amortization expense due to assets being disposed of or classified as held for sale throughout 2019 and 2020 and assets that were fully depreciated in 2019 and 2020; (iii) government grant income received under the CARES Act during 2020; and (iv) NOI from acquisitions during 2019. The increase in income (loss) from discontinued operations was partially offset by: (i) decreased NOI from dispositions of real estate during 2019 and 2020 and (ii) increased expenses and decreased occupancy related to COVID-19. Income (loss) from discontinued operations decreased for the year ended December 31, 2019 primarily as a result of: (i) decreased gain on sales of real estate; (ii) increased impairment charges due to additional asset being classified as held for sale in 2019; (iii) increased depreciation and amortization expense due to acquisitions of real estate during 2018 and 2019; (iv) decreased NOI from dispositions of real estate during 2018 and 2019. The decrease in income (loss) from discontinued operations was partially offset by: (i) increased other income (expense), net from a gain upon change of control related to consolidating a senior housing joint venture in 2019 and (ii) additional NOI from acquisitions during 2018 and 2019. Liquidity and Capital Resources We anticipate that our cash flow from operations, available cash balances, and cash from our various financing activities will be adequate for at least the next 12 months for purposes of: (i) funding recurring operating expenses; (ii) meeting debt service requirements; and (iii) satisfying our distributions to our stockholders and non-controlling interest members. During the year ended December 31, 2020, distributions to common shareholders and noncontrolling interest holders exceeded cash flows from operations by approximately $66 million. Distributions were made using a combination of cash flows from operations, funds available under our bank line of credit and commercial paper program, proceeds from the sale of properties, and other sources of cash available to us. Our principal investing liquidity needs for the next 12 months are to: • fund capital expenditures, including tenant improvements and leasing costs and • fund future acquisition, transactional and development activities. We anticipate satisfying these future investing needs using one or more of the following: • cash flow from operations; • sale of, or exchange of ownership interests in, properties or other investments; • borrowings under our bank line of credit and commercial paper program; • issuance of additional debt, including unsecured notes, term loans, and mortgage debt; and/or • issuance of common or preferred stock or its equivalent. Our ability to access the capital markets impacts our cost of capital and ability to refinance maturing indebtedness, as well as our ability to fund future acquisitions and development through the issuance of additional securities or secured debt. Credit ratings impact our ability to access capital and directly impact our cost of capital as well. For example, our bank line of credit and term loan accrue interest at a rate per annum equal to LIBOR plus a margin that depends upon the credit ratings of our senior unsecured long term debt. We also pay a facility fee on the entire revolving commitment that depends upon our credit ratings. As of February 8, 2021, we had long-term credit ratings of Baa1 from Moody’s and BBB+ from S&P Global and Fitch, and short-term credit ratings of P-2, A-2 and F2 from Moody's, S&P Global, and Fitch, respectively. A downgrade in credit ratings by Moody’s, S&P Global, and Fitch may have a negative impact on the interest rates and facility fees for our bank line of credit and term loan. While a downgrade in our credit ratings would adversely impact our cost of borrowing, we believe we continue to have access to the unsecured debt markets, and we could also seek to enter into one or more secured debt financings, issue additional securities, including under our 2020 ATM Program (as defined below), or dispose of certain assets to fund future operating costs, capital expenditures, or acquisitions, although no assurances can be made in this regard. Refer to “COVID-19 Update” above for a more comprehensive discussion of the potential impact of COVID-19 on our business. 60 Cash Flow Summary The following summary discussion of our cash flows is based on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows and is not meant to be an all-inclusive discussion of the changes in our cash flows for the periods presented below. The following table sets forth changes in cash flows (in thousands): Operating Cash Flows Operating cash flow decreased $88 million between the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 primarily as the result of: (i) the termination fee paid to Brookdale in connection with the CCRC Acquisition; (ii) assets sold during 2019 and 2020, and (iii) additional expenses and decreased occupancy in our SHOP and CCRC assets related to COVID-19. The decrease in operating cash flow is partially offset by: (i) 2019 and 2020 acquisitions, (ii) annual rent increases, (iii) new leasing activity; (iv) developments and redevelopments placed in service during 2019 and 2020, and (v) increased interest received from new loan investments. Operating cash flow decreased $3 million between the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018 primarily as the result of: (i) dispositions during 2018 and 2019 and (ii) occupancy declines and higher labor costs within our SHOP assets. The decrease in operating cash flow is partially offset by: (i) 2018 and 2019 acquisitions, (ii) annual rent increases, (iii) developments and redevelopments placed in service during 2018 and 2019, and (iv) decreased interest paid as a result of debt repayments during 2018 and 2019. Our cash flow from operations is dependent upon the occupancy levels of our buildings, rental rates on leases, our tenants’ performance on their lease obligations, the level of operating expenses, and other factors. Investing Cash Flows The following are significant investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2020: • received net proceeds of $1.5 billion primarily from (i) sales of real estate assets (including real estate assets under DFLs) and (ii) sales and repayments of loans receivable; and • made investments of $2.5 billion primarily related to the (i) acquisition, development, and redevelopment of real estate and (ii) funding of loan investments. The following are significant investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2019: • received net proceeds of $976 million primarily from: (i) sales of real estate assets (including real estate assets under DFLs), (ii) the sale of our investment in the U.K. JV, and (iii) the sale of a 46.5% interest in 19 previously consolidated SHOP assets; and • made investments of $2.4 billion primarily related to the (i) acquisition, development, and redevelopment of real estate and (ii) funding of loan investments. The following are significant investing activities for the year ended December 31, 2018: • received net proceeds of $2.9 billion primarily from: (i) sales of real estate assets, (ii) the sale of RIDEA II, (iii) the sale of the Tandem Mezzanine Loan, and (iv) the U.K. JV transaction; and • made investments of $1.1 billion primarily for the acquisition and development of real estate. Financing Cash Flows The following are significant financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2020: • made net borrowings of $16 million primarily under our bank line of credit, commercial paper, and senior unsecured notes (including debt extinguishment costs); • paid cash dividends on common stock of $787 million; and • issued common stock of $1.1 billion. 61 The following are significant financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2019: • made net borrowings of $573 million primarily under our bank line of credit, commercial paper, term loan, and senior unsecured notes (including debt extinguishment costs); • paid cash dividends on common stock of $720 million; and • issued common stock of $796 million. The following are significant financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2018: • repaid $2.4 billion of debt under our: (i) bank line of credit, (ii) term loan, (iii) senior unsecured notes (including debt extinguishment costs) and (iv) mortgage debt; • paid cash dividends on common stock of $697 million; • paid $83 million for distributions to and purchases of noncontrolling interests, primarily related to our acquisition of Brookdale’s noncontrolling interest in RIDEA I; • raised net proceeds of $218 million from the issuances of common stock, primarily from our at-the-market equity program; and • received proceeds of $300 million for issuances of noncontrolling interests. Discontinued Operations Operating, investing, and financing cash flows in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows are reported inclusive of both cash flows from continuing operations and cash flows from discontinued operations. Certain significant cash flows from discontinued operations are disclosed in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The absence of future cash flows from discontinued operations is not expected to significantly impact our liquidity, as the proceeds from senior housing triple-net and SHOP dispositions are expected to be used to pay down debt and invest in additional real estate in our other business lines. Additionally, we have multiple other sources of liquidity that can be utilized in the future, as needed. Refer to the Liquidity and Capital Resources section above for additional information regarding our liquidity. Debt Senior Unsecured Notes In June 2020, we completed a public offering of $600 million in aggregate principal amount of our 2031 Notes. In June 2020, using a portion of the net proceeds from the 2031 Notes offering, we repurchased $250 million aggregate principal amount of our 4.25% senior unsecured notes due in 2023. In July 2020, using an additional portion of the net proceeds from the 2031 Notes offering, we redeemed all $300 million of our 3.15% senior unsecured notes due in 2022. From January 1, 2021 to February 8, 2021, we repurchased $112 million aggregate principal amount of our 4.25% senior unsecured notes due in 2023, $201 million aggregate principal amount of our 4.20% senior unsecured notes due in 2024, and $469 million aggregate principal amount of our 3.88% senior unsecured notes due in 2024. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about our outstanding debt. Approximately 94%, 94%, and 99% of our consolidated debt, excluding debt classified as liabilities related to assets held for sale and discontinued operations, net, was fixed rate debt as of December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. At December 31, 2020, our fixed rate debt and variable rate debt had weighted average interest rates of 3.85% and 0.85%, respectively. At December 31, 2019, our fixed rate debt and variable rate debt had weighted average interest rates of 3.94% and 2.58%, respectively. At December 31, 2018, our fixed rate debt and variable rate debt had weighted average interest rates of 4.04% and 2.12%, respectively. We had $36 million, $42 million and $43 million of variable rate debt swapped to fixed through interest rate swaps as of December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively, which is reported in liabilities related to assets held for sale and discontinued operations, net. For a more detailed discussion of our interest rate risk, see “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” in Item 3 below. 62 Equity At December 31, 2020, we had 538 million shares of common stock outstanding, equity totaled $7.3 billion, and our equity securities had a market value of $16.5 billion. At December 31, 2020, non-managing members held an aggregate of five million units in seven limited liability companies (“DownREITs”) for which we are the managing member. The DownREIT units are exchangeable for an amount of cash approximating the then-current market value of shares of our common stock or, at our option, shares of our common stock (subject to certain adjustments, such as stock splits and reclassifications). At December 31, 2020, the outstanding DownREIT units were convertible into approximately seven million shares of our common stock. At-The-Market Program In February 2020, we terminated our previous at-the-market equity offering program and concurrently established a new at-the-market equity offering program (the “2020 ATM Program”). In addition to the issuance and sale of shares of our common stock, we may also enter into one or more forward sales agreements with sales agents for the sale of our shares of common stock under our 2020 ATM Program. During the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company settled all 16.8 million shares previously outstanding under ATM forward contracts at a weighted average net price of $31.38 per share, after commissions, resulting in net proceeds of $528 million. At December 31, 2020, approximately $1.25 billion of our common stock remained available for sale under the 2020 ATM Program. Actual future sales of our common stock will depend upon a variety of factors, including but not limited to market conditions, the trading price of our common stock, and our capital needs. We have no obligation to sell any of the remaining shares under our 2020 ATM Program. Other than in connection with settlement of ATM forward contracts described above, during the year ended December 31, 2020, we did not issue any shares of our common stock under our 2020 ATM Program. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about our 2020 ATM Program and our previous at-the-market equity offering program. Shelf Registration In May 2018, we filed a prospectus with the SEC as part of a registration statement on Form S-3, using an automatic shelf registration process. This shelf registration statement expires in May 2021 and at or prior to such time, we expect to file a new shelf registration statement. Under the “shelf” process, we may sell any combination of the securities described in the prospectus through one or more offerings. The securities described in the prospectus include common stock, preferred stock, depositary shares, debt securities and warrants. 63 Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our material contractual payment obligations and commitments, excluding obligations and commitments related to assets classified as discontinued operations, at December 31, 2020 (in thousands): _______________________________________ (1) Excludes $4 million of development commitments, $4 million of ground and other operating leases, and $111 million of interest related to assets classified as discontinued operations. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding discontinued operations. (2) Excludes mortgage debt on assets held for sale and discontinued operations of $319 million and mortgage debt from unconsolidated joint ventures. (3) Represents loan commitments to finance development and redevelopment projects. (4) Represents our commitments, as lessor, under signed leases and contracts for operating properties and includes allowances for tenant improvements and leasing commissions. Excludes allowances for tenant improvements related to developments in progress for which we have executed an agreement with a general contractor to complete the tenant improvements (recognized in the "Development commitments" line). (5) Represents construction and other commitments for developments in progress and includes allowances for tenant improvements of $28 million that we have provided as a lessor. (6) Interest on variable-rate debt is calculated using rates in effect at December 31, 2020. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We own interests in certain unconsolidated joint ventures as described in Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Except in limited circumstances, our risk of loss is limited to our investment in the joint venture and any outstanding loans receivable. We have no other material off-balance sheet arrangements that we expect would materially affect our liquidity and capital resources except those described above under “Contractual Obligations”. Inflation Our leases often provide for either fixed increases in base rents or indexed escalators, based on the Consumer Price Index or other measures, and/or additional rent based on increases in the tenants’ operating revenues. Most of our MOB leases require the tenant to pay a share of property operating costs such as real estate taxes, insurance and utilities. Substantially all of our senior housing triple-net, life science, and remaining other leases require the tenant or operator to pay all of the property operating costs or reimburse us for all such costs. We believe that inflationary increases in expenses will be offset, in part, by the tenant or operator expense reimbursements and contractual rent increases described above. 64 Non-GAAP Financial Measure Reconciliations Funds From Operations The following is a reconciliation from net income (loss) applicable to common shares, the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP, to NAREIT FFO, FFO as Adjusted and AFFO (in thousands, except per share data): 65 _______________________________________ (1) For the year ended December 31, 2020, includes a $170 million gain upon consolidation of 13 CCRCs in which we acquired Brookdale's interest and began consolidating during the first quarter of 2020. For the year ended December 31, 2019, includes a $161 million gain upon deconsolidation of 19 previously consolidated SHOP assets that were contributed into a new unconsolidated senior housing joint venture with a sovereign wealth fund. For the year ended December 31, 2018, represents the gain upon consolidation related to the acquisition of our partner's interests in four previously unconsolidated life science assets, partially offset by the loss upon consolidation of seven U.K. care homes. Gains and losses upon change of control are included in other income (expense), net in the consolidated statements of operations. (2) For the year ended December 31, 2016, represents income tax expense associated with the state built-in gain tax payable upon the disposition of specific real estate assets, of which $49 million relates to the HCR ManorCare, Inc. ("HCRMC") real estate portfolio that we spun-off in 2016. (3) For the year ended December 31, 2020, includes the termination fee and transition fee expenses related to terminating the management agreements with Brookdale for 13 CCRCs and transitioning those communities to LCS, partially offset by the tax benefit related to those expenses. The expenses related to terminating management agreements are included in operating expenses in the consolidated statements of operations. For the year ended December 31, 2017, includes $55 million of net non-cash charges related to the right to terminate certain triple-net leases and management agreements in conjunction with the 2017 Brookdale Transactions. For the year ended December 31, 2016, primarily relates to the spin-off of Quality Care Properties, Inc. (4) For the year ended December 31, 2020, includes reserves for loan losses under the current expected credit losses accounting standard in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification 326, Financial Instruments – Credit Losses ("ASC 326"). The year ended December 31, 2020 also includes a gain on sale of a hospital that was in a DFL and the impairment of an undeveloped MOB land parcel, which was sold during the third quarter. For the year ended December 31, 2019, represents the impairment of 13 senior housing triple-net facilities under DFLs recognized as a result of entering into sales agreements. For the year ended December 31, 2018, primarily relates to the impairment of an undeveloped life science land parcel classified as held for sale, partially offset by an impairment recovery upon the sale of a mezzanine loan investment in March 2018. For the year ended December 31, 2017, relates to $144 million of impairments on our Tandem Mezzanine Loan, net of a $51 million impairment recovery upon the sale of a senior notes investment. (5) For the year ended December 31, 2018, primarily relates to the departure of our former Executive Chairman and corporate restructuring activities. For the year ended December 31, 2017, primarily relates to the departure of our former Chief Accounting Officer. For the year ended December 31, 2016, primarily relates to the departure of our former President and Chief Executive Officer. (6) For the year ended December 31, 2020, represents the valuation allowance and corresponding income tax expense related to deferred tax assets that are no longer expected to be realized as a result of our plan to dispose of our SHOP portfolio. We determined we were unlikely to hold the assets long enough to realize the future value of certain deferred tax assets generated by the net operating losses of our taxable REIT subsidiaries. (7) For the year ended December 31, 2020, represents the tax benefit from the CARES Act, which extended the net operating loss carryback period to five years. For the year ended December 31, 2017, represents the remeasurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities as a result of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act that was signed into legislation on December 22, 2017. (8) In connection with the acquisition of the remaining 51% interest in the CCRC JV in January 2020, we consolidated the 13 communities in the CCRC JV and recorded the assets and liabilities at their acquisition date relative fair values, including the CCRC contract liabilities associated with previously collected non-refundable entrance fees. In conjunction with increasing those CCRC contract liabilities to their fair value, we concluded that we will no longer adjust for the timing difference between non-refundable entrance fees collected and amortized as we believe the amortization of these fees is a meaningful representation of how we satisfy the performance obligations of the fees. As such, upon consolidation of the CCRC assets, we no longer exclude the difference between CCRC entrance fees collected and amortized from the calculation of AFFO. For comparative periods presented, the adjustment continues to represent our 49% share of non-refundable entrance fees collected by the CCRC JV, net of reserves and net of CCRC JV entrance fee amortization. (9) Primarily includes our share of AFFO capital expenditures from unconsolidated joint ventures, partially offset by noncontrolling interests' share of AFFO capital expenditures from consolidated joint ventures. For the year ended December 31, 2020, includes an increase to insurance claims that have been incurred but not yet reported on the 13 CCRCs in which we acquired Brookdale's interest and began consolidating during the first quarter of 2020 and senior housing triple-net assets that transitioned to RIDEA structures during the year. 66 Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires our management to use judgment in the application of accounting policies, including making estimates and assumptions. We base estimates on the best information available to us at the time, our experience and on various other assumptions believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. These estimates affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting periods. If our judgment or interpretation of the facts and circumstances relating to various transactions or other matters had been different, it is possible that different accounting would have been applied, resulting in a different presentation of our consolidated financial statements. From time to time, we re-evaluate our estimates and assumptions. In the event estimates or assumptions prove to be different from actual results, adjustments are made in subsequent periods to reflect more current estimates and assumptions about matters that are inherently uncertain. For a more detailed discussion of our significant accounting policies, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Below is a discussion of accounting policies that we consider critical in that they may require complex judgment in their application or require estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. Principles of Consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Healthpeak Properties, Inc., our wholly-owned subsidiaries, and joint ventures and variable interest entities (“VIEs”) that we control, through voting rights or other means. We consolidate investments in VIEs when we are the primary beneficiary of the VIE. A variable interest holder is considered to be the primary beneficiary of a VIE if it has the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact the entity’s economic performance and has the obligation to absorb losses of, or the right to receive benefits from, the entity that could potentially be significant to the VIE. We make judgments about which entities are VIEs based on an assessment of whether: (i) the equity investment at risk is insufficient to finance that entity’s activities without additional subordinated financial support, (ii) substantially all of an entity’s activities either involve or are conducted on behalf of an investor that has disproportionately few voting rights, or (iii) the equity investors as a group lack any of the following: (a) the power through voting or similar rights to direct the activities of an entity that most significantly impact the entity’s economic performance, (b) the obligation to absorb the expected losses of an entity, or (c) the right to receive the expected residual returns of an entity. Criterion (iii) above is generally applied to limited partnerships and similarly structured entities by assessing whether a simple majority of the limited partners hold substantive rights to participate in the significant decisions of the entity or have the ability to remove the decision maker or liquidate the entity without cause. If neither of those criteria are met, the entity is a VIE. We continually assess whether events have occurred that require us to reconsider the initial determination of whether an entity is a VIE. Such events include, but are not limited to: (i) a change to the contractual arrangements of the entity or in the ability of a party to exercise its participation or kick-out rights, (ii) a change to the capitalization structure of the entity, or (iii) acquisitions or sales of interests that constitute a change in control. When a reconsideration event occurs, we reassess whether the entity is a VIE. We also make judgments with respect to our level of influence or control over an entity and whether we are (or are not) the primary beneficiary of a VIE. Consideration of various factors includes, but is not limited to: • which activities most significantly impact the entity’s economic performance, and our ability to direct those activities; • our form of ownership interest; • our representation on the entity’s governing body; • the size and seniority of our investment; • our ability to manage our ownership interest relative to other interest holders; and • our ability and the rights of other investors to participate in policy making decisions, replace the manager, and/or liquidate the entity, if applicable. Our ability to correctly assess our influence or control over an entity when determining the primary beneficiary of a VIE affects the presentation of these entities in our consolidated financial statements. When we perform a reassessment of the primary beneficiary at a date other than at inception of the VIE, our assumptions may be different and may result in the identification of a different primary beneficiary. 67 If we determine that we are the primary beneficiary of a VIE, our consolidated financial statements include the operating results of the VIE rather than the results of our variable interest in the VIE. We require VIEs to provide us timely financial information and review the internal controls of VIEs to determine if we can rely on the financial information it provides. If a VIE has deficiencies in its internal controls over financial reporting, or does not provide us with timely financial information, it may adversely impact the quality and/or timing of our financial reporting and our internal controls over financial reporting. Revenue Recognition Lease Classification At the inception of a new lease arrangement, including new leases that arise from amendments, we assess the terms and conditions to determine the proper lease classification. For leases entered into prior to January 1, 2019, the lease arrangement was classified as an operating lease if none of the following criteria were met: (i) transfer of ownership to the lessee prior to or shortly after the end of the lease term, (ii) the lessee had a bargain purchase option during or at the end of the lease term, (iii) the lease term was equal to 75% or more of the underlying property’s economic life, or (iv) the present value of future minimum lease payments (excluding executory costs) was equal to 90% or more of the estimated fair value of the leased asset. If one of the four criteria was met and the minimum lease payments were determined to be reasonably predictable and collectible, the lease arrangement was generally accounted for as a DFL. Concurrent with our adoption of Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") No. 2016-02, Leases (“ASU 2016-02”) on January 1, 2019, we began classifying a lease entered into subsequent to adoption as an operating lease if none of the following criteria are met: (i) transfer of ownership to the lessee by the end of the lease term, (ii) lessee has a purchase option during or at the end of the lease term that it is reasonably certain to exercise, (iii) the lease term is for the major part of the remaining economic life of the underlying asset, (iv) the present value of future minimum lease payments is equal to substantially all of the fair value of the underlying asset, or (v) the underlying asset is of such a specialized nature that it is expected to have no alternative use to us at the end of the lease term. If the assumptions utilized in the above classification assessments were different, our lease classification for accounting purposes may have been different; thus the timing and amount of our revenue recognized would have been impacted, which may be material to our consolidated financial statements. Rental and Related Revenues We recognize rental revenue for operating leases on a straight-line basis over the lease term when collectibility of all minimum lease payments is probable and the tenant has taken possession or controls the physical use of a leased asset. If the lease provides for tenant improvements, we determine whether the tenant improvements are owned by the tenant or us. When we are the owner of the tenant improvements, the tenant is not considered to have taken physical possession or have control of the leased asset until the tenant improvements are substantially complete. When the tenant is the owner of the tenant improvements, any tenant improvement allowance funded is treated as a lease incentive and amortized as a reduction of revenue over the lease term. The determination of ownership of a tenant improvement is subject to significant judgment. If our assessment of the owner of the tenant improvements was different, the timing and amount of our revenue recognized would be impacted. Certain leases provide for additional rents that are contingent upon a percentage of the facility’s revenue in excess of specified base amounts or other thresholds. Such revenue is recognized when actual results reported by the tenant, or estimates of tenant results, exceed the base amount or other thresholds. The recognition of additional rents requires us to make estimates of amounts owed and, to a certain extent, is dependent on the accuracy of the facility results reported to us. Our estimates may differ from actual results, which could be material to our consolidated financial statements. Resident Fees and Services Resident fee revenue is recorded when services are rendered and includes resident room and care charges, community fees and other resident charges. Residency agreements are generally for a term of 30 days to one year, with resident fees billed monthly, in advance. Revenue for certain care related services is recognized as services are provided and is billed monthly in arrears. Certain of our CCRCs are operated as entrance fee communities, which typically require a resident to pay an upfront entrance fee that includes both a refundable portion and non-refundable portion. When we receive a nonrefundable entrance fee, it is recognized as deferred revenue and amortized into revenue over the estimated stay of the resident. 68 Credit Losses We continuously assess the collectibility of operating lease straight-line rent receivables. If it is no longer probable that substantially all future minimum lease payments will be received, the straight-line rent receivable balance is written off and recognized as a decrease in revenue in that period. We monitor the liquidity and creditworthiness of our tenants and operators on a continuous basis. This evaluation considers industry and economic conditions, property performance, credit enhancements, and other factors. We exercise judgment in this assessment and consider payment history and current credit status in developing these estimates. These estimates may differ from actual results, which could be material to our consolidated financial statements. Loans receivable and DFLs (collectively, “finance receivables”), are reviewed and assigned an internal rating of Performing, Watch List, or Workout. Finance receivables that are deemed Performing meet all present contractual obligations, and collection and timing of all amounts owed is reasonably assured. Watch List finance receivables are defined as finance receivables that do not meet the definition of Performing or Workout. Workout finance receivables are defined as finance receivables in which we have determined, based on current information and events, that: (i) it is probable we will be unable to collect all amounts due according to the contractual terms of the agreement, (ii) the tenant, operator, or borrower is delinquent on making payments under the contractual terms of the agreement, and (iii) we have commenced action or anticipate pursuing action in the near term to seek recovery of our investment. Finance receivables are placed on nonaccrual status when management determines that the collectibility of contractual amounts is not reasonably assured (the asset will have an internal rating of either Watch List or Workout). Further, we perform a credit analysis to support the tenant’s, operator’s, borrower’s, and/or guarantor’s repayment capacity and the underlying collateral values. We use the cash basis method of accounting for finance receivables placed on nonaccrual status unless one of the following conditions exist whereby we utilize the cost recovery method of accounting: (i) if we determine that it is probable that we will only recover the recorded investment in the finance receivable, net of associated allowances or charge-offs (if any) or (ii) we cannot reasonably estimate the amount of an impaired finance receivable. For cash basis method of accounting we apply payments received, excluding principal paydowns, to interest income so long as that amount does not exceed the amount that would have been earned under the original contractual terms. For cost recovery method of accounting any payment received is applied to reduce the recorded investment. Generally, we return a finance receivable to accrual status when all delinquent payments become current under the terms of the loan or lease agreements and collectibility of the remaining contractual loan or lease payments is reasonably assured. Prior to the adoption of ASU No. 2016-13, Measurement of Credit Losses on Financial Instruments (“ASU 2016-13”) on January 1, 2020, allowances were established for finance receivables on an individual basis utilizing an estimate of probable losses, if they were determined to be impaired. Finance Receivables were impaired when it was deemed probable that we would be unable to collect all amounts due in accordance with the contractual terms of the loan or lease. An allowance was based upon our assessment of the lessee’s or borrower’s overall financial condition, economic resources, payment record, the prospects for support from any financially responsible guarantors and, if appropriate, the net realizable value of any collateral. These estimates considered all available evidence, including the expected future cash flows discounted at the finance receivable’s effective interest rate, fair value of collateral, general economic conditions and trends, historical and industry loss experience, and other relevant factors, as appropriate. If a finance receivable was deemed partially or wholly uncollectible, the uncollectible balance was charged off against the allowance in the period in which the uncollectible determination has been made. Subsequent to adopting ASU 2016-13 on January 1, 2020, we began using a loss model that relies on future expected credit losses, rather than incurred losses, as was required under historical U.S. GAAP. Under the new model, we are required to recognize future credit losses expected to be incurred over the life of a finance receivable at inception of that instrument. The model emphasizes historical experience and future market expectations to determine a loss to be recognized at inception. However, the model continues to be applied on an individual basis and rely on counter-party specific information to ensure the most accurate estimate is recognized. 69 Real Estate We make estimates as part of our process for allocating a purchase price to the various identifiable assets and liabilities of an acquisition based upon the relative fair value of each asset or liability. The most significant components of our allocations are typically buildings as-if-vacant, land, and in-place leases. In the case of allocating fair value to buildings and intangibles, our fair value estimates will affect the amount of depreciation and amortization we record over the estimated useful life of each asset acquired. In the case of allocating fair value to in-place leases, we make our best estimates based on our evaluation of the specific characteristics of each tenant’s lease. Factors considered include estimates of carrying costs during hypothetical expected lease-up periods, market conditions, and costs to execute similar leases. Our assumptions affect the amount of future revenue and/or depreciation and amortization expense that we will recognize over the remaining useful life for the acquired in-place leases. Certain of our acquisitions involve the assumption of contract liabilities. We typically estimate the fair value of contract liabilities by applying a reasonable profit margin to the total discounted estimated future costs associated with servicing the contract. We consider a variety of market and contract-specific conditions when making assumptions that impact the estimated fair value of the contract liability. A variety of costs are incurred in the development and leasing of properties. After determination is made to capitalize a cost, it is allocated to the specific component of a project that is benefited. Determination of when a development project is substantially complete and capitalization must cease involves a degree of judgment. The costs of land and buildings under development include specifically identifiable costs. The capitalized costs include pre-construction costs essential to the development of the property, development costs, construction costs, interest costs, real estate taxes, and other costs incurred during the period of development. We consider a construction project to be considered substantially complete and available for occupancy and cease capitalization of costs upon the completion of the related tenant improvements. Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations We classify a real estate property as held for sale when: (i) management has approved the disposal, (ii) the property is available for sale in its present condition, (iii) an active program to locate a buyer has been initiated, (iv) it is probable that the property will be disposed of within one year, (v) the property is being marketed at a reasonable price relative to its fair value, and (vi) it is unlikely that the disposal plan will significantly change or be withdrawn. If an asset is classified as held for sale, it is reported at the lower of its carrying value or fair value less costs to sell and no longer depreciated. We classify a loan receivable as held for sale when we no longer have the intent and ability to hold the loan receivable for the foreseeable future or until maturity. If a loan receivable is classified as held for sale, it is reported at the lower of amortized cost or fair value. A discontinued operation represents: (i) a component of an entity or group of components that has been disposed of or is classified as held for sale in a single transaction and represents a strategic shift that has or will have a major effect on our operations and financial results or (ii) an acquired business that is classified as held for sale on the date of acquisition. Examples of a strategic shift may include disposing of: (i) a separate major line of business, (ii) a separate major geographic area of operations, or (iii) other major parts of the Company. Impairment of Long-Lived Assets We assess the carrying value of our real estate assets and related intangibles (“real estate assets”) when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Recoverability of real estate assets is measured by comparing the carrying amount of the real estate assets to the respective estimated future undiscounted cash flows. The expected future undiscounted cash flows reflect external market factors and are probability-weighted to reflect multiple possible cash-flow scenarios, including selling the assets at various points in the future. Additionally, the estimated future undiscounted cash flows are calculated utilizing the lowest level of identifiable cash flows that are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities. In order to review our real estate assets for recoverability, we make assumptions regarding external market conditions (including capitalization rates and growth rates), forecasted cash flows and sales prices, and our intent with respect to holding or disposing of the asset. If our analysis indicates that the carrying value of the real estate assets is not recoverable on an undiscounted cash flow basis, we recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the real estate asset. 70 Determining the fair value of real estate assets, including assets classified as held-for-sale, involves significant judgment and generally utilizes market capitalization rates, comparable market transactions, estimated per-unit or per square foot prices, negotiations with prospective buyers, and forecasted cash flows (lease revenue rates, expense rates, growth rates, etc.). Our ability to accurately predict future operating results and resulting cash flows, and estimate fair values, impacts the timing and recognition of impairments. While we believe our assumptions are reasonable, changes in these assumptions may have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. Investments in Unconsolidated Joint Ventures The initial carrying value of investments in unconsolidated joint ventures is based on the amount paid to purchase the joint venture interest, the fair value of assets contributed to the joint venture, or the fair value of the assets prior to the sale of interests in the joint venture. We evaluate our equity method investments for impairment by first reviewing for indicators of impairment based on the performance of the underlying real estate assets held by the joint venture. If an equity-method investment shows indicators of impairment, we compare the fair value of the investment to the carrying value. If we determine there is a decline in the fair value of our investment in an unconsolidated joint venture below its carrying value and it is other-than-temporary, an impairment charge is recorded. The determination of the fair value of investments in unconsolidated joint ventures and as to whether a deficiency in fair value is other-than-temporary involves significant judgment. Our estimates consider all available evidence including, as appropriate, the present value of the expected future cash flows, discounted at market rates, general economic conditions and trends, severity and duration of a fair value deficiency, and other relevant factors. Capitalization rates, discount rates, and credit spreads utilized in our valuation models are based on rates we believe to be within a reasonable range of current market rates for the respective investments. While we believe our assumptions are reasonable, changes in these assumptions may have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. Income Taxes As part of the process of preparing our consolidated financial statements, significant management judgment is required to evaluate our compliance with REIT requirements. Our determinations are based on interpretation of tax laws and our conclusions may have an impact on the income tax expense recognized. Adjustments to income tax expense may be required as a result of: (i) audits conducted by federal, state, and local tax authorities, (ii) our ability to qualify as a REIT, (iii) the potential for built-in gain recognition, and (iv) changes in tax laws. Adjustments required in any given period are included within the income tax provision. We are required to evaluate our deferred tax assets for realizability and recognize a valuation allowance, which is recorded against its deferred tax assets, if it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will not be realized. We consider all available evidence in its determination of whether a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets is required. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the impact of new accounting standards.