********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

The section below discusses the risk factors that may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also adversely affect our business. As set forth below, we believe that the risks we face generally fall into the following categories: • risks related to our business and operations; • risks related to our capital structure and market conditions; • risks related to the regulatory environment; • risks related to tax, including REIT-related risks, and related to our jurisdiction of incorporation and our structure as an UPREIT; • risks relating to the Mergers; • risks relating to the Combined Company following the Mergers; • risks relating to the status of Physicians Realty Trust as a REIT; and • risks relating to an investment in the Combined Company’s common stock following the Mergers and the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement. Risks Related to Our Business and Operations We may be negatively impacted by macroeconomic trends, including rising inflation and interest rates, increased construction and labor costs, and historically low unemployment. Many of our costs, including labor costs, construction costs, utilities, and other operating and administrative costs, have been, and may continue to be, affected by inflation and price volatility. These macroeconomic trends have been, and may continue to be, exacerbated by responses to the Covid pandemic, supply chain disruptions, the conflicts between Russia and Ukraine and in the Middle East, federal government deficits, and other international and domestic events impacting the macroeconomic environment. In addition, interest rates rose substantially in 2022 and 2023 and may continue to rise and remain elevated for the foreseeable future. U.S. government policies implemented to address inflation, including actions by the Federal Reserve System’s Federal Open Market Committee (the “FOMC”) to increase short-term interest rates, have led to increases in interest rates in the credit markets and other impacts on the macroeconomic environment. The FOMC may continue to raise the federal funds rate or maintain a higher federal funds rate for a longer period of time, either of which would likely lead to higher short-term interest rates and the possibility of lower asset values, slowing economic growth and increasing the possibility of a recession. Increased interest rates have caused, and may continue to cause, unfavorable financing terms and increased interest costs for variable rate debt and new debt. Further, actions by the FMOC to decrease short-term interest rates could lead to inflationary pressures. We may not be able to offset additional costs caused by inflation, increased interest rates, or other macroeconomic trends by passing them through, or increasing the rates we charge, to tenants and residents. These increased costs may hinder our ability to execute on accretive acquisitions or otherwise adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Increased interest rates could also negatively impact consumer spending and our tenants’, operators’, and borrowers’ businesses and future demand for our properties. Furthermore, rising labor costs and personnel shortages have increased, and may continue to increase, the cost of our, or our tenants’, operators’, and borrowers’, workforce. Competitive pressures, including historically low unemployment, may require that we or our tenants, operators, or borrowers enhance pay and benefits packages to compete effectively for such personnel. To the extent we or our tenants, operators, or borrowers cannot hire a sufficient number of qualified personnel, we or they may need to utilize high-cost alternatives to meet labor needs, including contract and overtime labor, or our business may operate below capacity, which may affect our ability to effectively manage risk and pursue potential revenue and growth opportunities. Additionally, changing technologies and cultural trends could negatively impact future demand for our properties, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. 14 Life science industry changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. If economic, financial, regulatory, or industry conditions continue to adversely affect the life science industry, we may be unable to lease or re-lease our lab properties in a timely manner or at profitable rates or with favorable terms. In addition, because lab property infrastructure improvements are typically significantly more costly than improvements to other property types due to their highly specialized nature, and lab tenants typically require greater lease square footage relative to outpatient medical tenants, repositioning efforts would have a disproportionate adverse effect on our lab segment performance. Further, our lab investments could face decreased demand from biotech and life science companies relative to supply, and life science industry consolidation could reduce the rentable square footage requirements of our client tenants and prospective client tenants, which may adversely impact our revenues from lease payments. Finally, our lab investments could also be adversely affected if the life science industry migrates from the U.S. to other countries or to areas outside of our primary lab markets in the greater South San Francisco, San Diego, and Boston areas. Our lab tenants face significant regulation, funding requirements, and uncertainty. Our lab tenants face substantial requirements for, and risks related to, the research, development, clinical testing, manufacture, and commercialization of their products and technologies, including: • significant funding requirements, including for rent payments due to us; • federal, state, and foreign regulatory approvals that may be costly or difficult to obtain, may take several years and be subject to delay, may not be obtained at all, require validation through clinical trials that may face delays or difficulties, or ultimately be unsuccessful; • product and technology efficacy risks; • acceptance risks among doctors and patients; • significant regulatory and liability risks, including the possible later discovery of safety concerns and other defects and potential loss of approvals, competition from new products, and the expiration of patent protection; • healthcare reforms and reimbursement policies of government or private healthcare payors, including pricing controls for prescription drug prices; • intellectual property and technology risks under patent, copyright, and trade secret laws; and • economic conditions restricting growth opportunities. Our lab tenants’ ability to raise capital depends on the actual or perceived viability of their products and technologies, their financial and operating condition and outlook, and the overall financial, banking, and economic environment. If venture capital firms, private investors, the public markets, companies in the life science industry, the government, or other sources of funding are difficult to obtain or unavailable to support our tenants’ activities, including as a result of general economic conditions or adverse market conditions that negatively impact our tenants’ ability to raise capital, our tenants’ business would be adversely affected or could fail. If our lab tenants’ businesses are adversely affected, they may fail to make their rent payments to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Decreases in our tenants’, operators’, or borrowers’ revenues, or increases in their expenses, or other factors adversely affecting their ability to borrow money, could affect their ability to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us. Occupancy levels at, and rental income from, our outpatient medical and senior housing properties depend on our ability and the ability of our tenants, operators, and borrowers to compete with respect to (i) the quality of care provided, (ii) reputation, (iii) price, (iv) the range of services offered, (v) the physical appearance of a property, (vi) family preference, (vii) referral sources, and (viii) location. In addition, our outpatient medical and senior housing tenants, operators, and borrowers compete with certain companies that have superior resources and attributes and/or provide similar healthcare services or alternatives such as home health agencies, telemedicine, life care at home, community-based service programs, retirement communities, and convalescent centers. Furthermore, these tenants, operators, and borrowers face a competitive labor market. A shortage of care givers or other trained personnel, union activities (including strikes, labor slowdowns, or contract negotiations), wage laws, or general inflationary pressures on wages may require our tenants, operators, and borrowers to enhance pay and benefits packages, or to use more expensive contract personnel, and they may be unable to offset these added costs by increasing the rates charged to residents or patients. An inability to attract and retain qualified personnel, including personnel possessing the expertise needed to operate in the life science, outpatient medical, and senior housing sectors, could negatively impact the ability of our tenants, operators, and borrowers to meet their obligations to us. 15 Our tenants, operators, and borrowers could also be adversely impacted by a bank failure or other event affecting financial institutions, including through disruptions in access to bank deposits or borrowing capacity, including access to letters of credit from certain of our tenants relating to lease obligations, and any resulting adverse effects to our tenants’, operators’, or borrowers’ liquidity or financial performance could affect their ability to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us. Although we generally have the right under specified circumstances to terminate a lease, evict a tenant or terminate an operator, demand immediate repayment of outstanding loan amounts or other obligations to us, or draw on a letter of credit, we may be unable to enforce these rights or we may determine not to do so if we believe that doing so would be more detrimental than alternative approaches. If widespread default or nonpayment of outstanding obligations from our tenants, operators, or borrowers occurs at a time when terminating our agreements with them and replacing them would be difficult or impossible, we could elect instead to amend our agreements on materially less favorable terms to us. The failure of our tenants, operators, or borrowers to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We may be negatively impacted by the insolvency or bankruptcy of one or more of our major tenants, operators, or borrowers. A downturn in our tenants’, operators’, or borrowers’ businesses has led, and could in the future lead, to voluntary or involuntary bankruptcy or similar insolvency proceedings, including assignment for the benefit of creditors, liquidation, or winding-up. Bankruptcy and insolvency laws afford certain rights to a defaulting tenant, operator, or borrower that has filed for bankruptcy or reorganization that has, and in the future may, render certain of our remedies unenforceable or, at the least, delay our ability to pursue such remedies and realize any related recoveries. A debtor has the right to assume, or to assume and assign to a third party, or to reject its executory contracts and unexpired leases in a bankruptcy proceeding. We have been subject to rejection of our leases in the past and may experience such rejection in the future. When a debtor rejects its leases with us, obligations under such rejected leases cease. The claim against the rejecting debtor for remaining rental payments due under the lease is an unsecured claim limited by the statutory cap set forth in the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. This statutory cap may be substantially less than the remaining rent actually owed under the lease. In addition, a debtor may also assert in bankruptcy proceedings that certain leases should be re-characterized as financing agreements, which could result in our being deemed a lender instead of a landlord. A lender’s rights and remedies, as compared to a landlord’s, generally are materially less favorable, and our rights as a lender may be subject to lower priority for payment under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. Furthermore, the automatic stay provisions of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code preclude us from enforcing our remedies unless we first obtain relief from the court having jurisdiction over the bankruptcy case. This effectively limits or delays our ability to collect unpaid rent or interest payments, and we may ultimately not receive any payment at all. In addition, we have been, and may again be, required to fund certain expenses and obligations (e.g., real estate taxes, insurance, debt costs, and maintenance expenses) to preserve the value of our properties, avoid the imposition of liens on our properties, or transition our properties to a new tenant or operator. If we are unable to transition affected properties, they would likely experience prolonged operational disruption, leading to lower occupancy rates and further depressed revenues. Publicity about the operator’s financial condition and insolvency proceeds may also negatively impact their and our reputations, decreasing customer demand and revenues. Any or all of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, results of operations, and cash flows. These risks could be magnified where we lease multiple properties to a single operator under a master lease, as an operator failure or default under a master lease would expose us to these risks across multiple properties. We depend on real estate investments, particularly in the healthcare property sector, making us more vulnerable to a downturn or slowdown in that specific sector than if we were investing across multiple sectors. We concentrate our investments in the healthcare property sector. A downturn or slowdown in this sector would have a greater adverse impact on our business than if we had investments across multiple sectors, and could negatively impact the ability of our tenants, operators, and borrowers to meet their obligations to us, as well as the ability to maintain historical rental and occupancy rates, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. In addition, such downturns could have a material adverse effect on the value of our properties and our ability to sell properties at prices or on terms acceptable or favorable to us. 16 The illiquidity of our real estate investments may prevent us from timely responding to economic or investment performance changes. Our real estate investments can be relatively illiquid due to: (i) restrictions on our ability to sell properties under applicable REIT tax laws, (ii) other tax-related considerations, (iii) regulatory hurdles, and (iv) market conditions. As a result, we may be unable to recognize full value for any property that we seek to sell. Our inability to timely respond to economic or investment performance changes could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Identifying and securing new or replacement tenants or operators can be time consuming and costly. Healthcare properties can be highly customized, and the improvements generally required to conform a property to healthcare use are costly, sometimes tenant-specific, and may be subject to regulatory requirements. A new or replacement tenant or operator may require different features in a property, depending on that tenant’s or operator’s particular business. In addition, infrastructure improvements for lab properties typically are significantly more expensive than improvements to other property types due to the highly specialized nature of the properties and the greater lease square footage often required by lab tenants. Therefore, we may incur substantial expenditures to modify a lab property and experience delays before we are able to secure a new or replacement tenant or operator or to accommodate multiple tenants or operators, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. In addition, we may fail to identify suitable replacements or enter into leases, management agreements, or other arrangements with new tenants or operators on a timely basis or on terms as favorable to us as our current leases, if at all. We also may be required to fund certain expenses and obligations, such as real estate taxes, debt costs, insurance costs, and maintenance expenses, to preserve the value of, and avoid the imposition of liens on, our properties while they are being repositioned. In addition, we may incur certain obligations and liabilities, including obligations to indemnify the replacement tenant or operator. Identifying and securing new or replacement tenants or operators can be time consuming and costly, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Property development, redevelopment, and tenant improvement risks can render a project less profitable or unprofitable and delay or prevent its undertaking or completion. Our property development, redevelopment, and tenant improvement projects could be canceled, abandoned, delayed or, if completed, fail to perform in accordance with expectations due to, among other things: • the inability to obtain financing on favorable terms or at all, or the lack of liquidity we deem necessary or appropriate for the project; • legal and regulatory hurdles, including moratoriums on development and redevelopment activities; • the failure to obtain, or costs associated with obtaining, necessary zoning, entitlements, and permits; • cost increases; and • other factors over which we have limited or no control, including: (i) changes in market and economic conditions; (ii) natural disasters and other catastrophic events or physical climate risks, such as wildfires, earthquakes, and wind storms; (iii) pandemics or other health crises; (iv) labor conditions, including a labor shortage or work stoppage; (v) shortages of construction materials; (vi) environmental conditions; or (vii) civil unrest and acts of war or terrorism. Project costs may materially exceed original estimates due to, among other things: • increased interest rates; • increased costs for materials, transportation, environmental remediation, labor, or other inputs, including those caused by a shortage of construction materials or labor; • negligent construction or construction defects; • damage, vandalism, or accidents; and • increased operating costs, including insurance premiums, utilities, real estate taxes, and costs of complying with changes in government regulations or increases in tariffs. Delays in project completion also delay the commencement of related rental payments, including increases in rental payments following tenant improvement projects, and may provide tenants the right to terminate leases or cause us to incur additional costs, including through rent abatement. Demand for a project may decrease prior to a project’s completion, and resulting lease-up rates, rental rates, lease commencement dates, and occupancy levels may fail to meet expectations. Tenants that have pre-leased at a project may file for bankruptcy or become insolvent, or elect to terminate their lease prior to delivery if they are acquired or for other reasons. 17 Finally, a project may have defects that we do not discover through the inspection processes, including latent defects not discovered until after we put a property in service. The foregoing risks could result in not achieving anticipated returns on investment and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. The hospitals on whose campuses our outpatient medical buildings are located and their affiliated healthcare systems could fail to remain competitive or financially viable, which could adversely impact their ability to attract physicians and physician groups to our outpatient medical buildings and our other properties that serve the healthcare industry. The viability of hospitals depends on factors such as: (i) the quality and mix of healthcare services provided, (ii) competition for patients and physicians, (iii) demographic trends in the surrounding community, (iv) market position, (v) growth potential, and (vi) changes to the reimbursement system, as well as the ability of the affiliated healthcare systems to provide economies of scale and access to capital. In addition, hospitals could be negatively affected by widespread cancellations of elective procedures due to health and safety measures or otherwise. If a hospital whose campus is located near one of our outpatient medical buildings is unable to meet its financial obligations, and if an affiliated healthcare system is unable to support that hospital or goes bankrupt, the hospital may be unable to successfully compete or could be forced to close or relocate, which could adversely impact its ability to attract physicians and other healthcare-related users. Because we rely on our proximity to, and affiliations with, these hospitals to create tenant demand for space in our outpatient medical buildings, their inability to remain competitive or financially viable, or to attract physicians and physician groups, could adversely affect our outpatient medical building operations and have a material adverse effect on us. We may be unable to develop, maintain, or expand hospital and health system client relationships. We invest significant time in developing, maintaining, and expanding relationships with both new and existing hospital and health system clients. If we fail to maintain these relationships, including through a lack of responsiveness, failure to adapt to the current market, or employment of individuals with inadequate experience, our reputation and relationships will be harmed and we may lose business to competitors, which could have a material adverse effect on us. We assume operational risks with respect to our senior housing properties managed in RIDEA structures that could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Although the RIDEA structure gives us certain oversight approval rights (e.g., budgets and material contracts) and the right to review operational and financial reporting information, our operators are ultimately in control of the day-to-day business of the property. As a result, we have limited rights to direct or influence the business or operations of our CCRCs and in the properties owned by our SWF SH JV, all of which are under RIDEA structures, and we depend on our operators to operate these properties in a manner that complies with applicable law, minimizes legal risk, and maximizes the value of our investment. Under a RIDEA structure, our TRS is ultimately responsible for all operational risks and other liabilities of the properties, other than those arising out of certain actions by our operator, such as gross negligence or willful misconduct. Operational risks include, and our resulting revenues therefore depend on, among other things: (i) occupancy rates; (ii) the entrance fees and rental rates charged to residents; (iii) the requirements of, or changes to, governmental reimbursement programs such as Medicare or Medicaid, to the extent applicable, including changes to reimbursement rates; (iv) our operators’ reputations and ability to attract and retain residents; (v) general economic conditions and market factors that impact seniors, including general inflationary pressures; (vi) competition from other senior housing providers; (vii) compliance with federal, state, local, and industry-regulated licensure, certification and inspection laws, regulations and standards; (viii) litigation involving our properties or residents/patients; (ix) the availability and cost of general and professional liability insurance coverage or increases in insurance policy deductibles; and (x) the ability to control operating expenses. Operators of our CCRCs and the SWF SH JV properties primarily depend on private sources for their revenues and the ability of their patients and residents to pay fees. Costs associated with independent and assisted living services are not generally reimbursable under governmental reimbursement programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. Accordingly, our operators of these properties depend on attracting seniors with appropriate levels of income and assets, which may be affected by many factors, including: (i) prevailing economic and market trends, including general inflationary pressures; (ii) consumer confidence; (iii) demographics; (iv) property condition and safety; (v) public perception about such properties; and (vi) social and environmental factors. In addition, epidemics, pandemics, and severe flu seasons or any other widespread illness could result in early move-outs or delayed move-ins during quarantine periods or during periods when actual or perceived risks of such illnesses are heightened, and have reduced, and could continue to reduce, our operators’ revenues. 18 If our operators fail to effectively conduct operations on our behalf, or to maintain and improve our properties, it could adversely affect our business reputation as the owner of the properties, as well as the business reputation of our operators and their ability to attract and retain patients and residents in our properties, which could have a material adverse effect on our and our operators’ business, results of operations, and financial condition. Economic conditions, natural disasters, weather, and other events or conditions that negatively affect geographic areas where we have concentrated investments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We are subject to increased exposure to adverse conditions affecting the geographies in which our properties are located, including: (i) downturns in local economies and increases in unemployment rates; (ii) changes in local real estate conditions, including increases in real estate taxes and property insurance premiums; (iii) increased competition; (iv) decreased demand; (v) changes in state and local legislation, including changes affecting business or property taxes; (vi) local climate events and natural disasters and other catastrophic events, such as pandemics, earthquakes, hurricanes, windstorms, flooding, wildfires, and mudslides and other physical climate risks, including water stress and heat stress; and (vii) failures of regional banks. These risks could significantly disrupt our businesses in the region, harm our ability to compete effectively, result in increased costs or construction delays, and divert management attention, any or all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. In addition, significant climate changes in areas where we own property could result in extreme weather and changes in precipitation, temperature, and other weather patterns, all of which could result in physical damage to or a decrease in demand for properties located in these areas or affected by these conditions or delays in construction. Moreover, an increase in volatility and difficulty predicting adverse weather events, such as freeze events in warmer climates in recent years, as well as increased hurricane intensity, may result in additional losses. Intensifying natural disasters including climate change and extreme weather events, coupled with the current economic climate have directly affected the availability of insurance, premiums, deductibles, and capacity that insurers are willing to underwrite. As a result, we may determine to self-insure more of our exposures, absorb more below deductible losses, and look for alternative means of risk transfer in order to avoid spiraling insurance costs. These events also have indirect effects on our business by increasing the costs of energy, maintenance, and snow removal at our properties. If changes in the climate have material effects, such as property destruction, or occur for extended periods, this could have a material adverse effect on business, results of operations, and financial condition. Uninsured or underinsured losses could result in a significant loss of capital invested in a property, lower than expected future revenues, and unanticipated expense. A large number of our properties are located in areas exposed to earthquakes, hurricanes, windstorms, flooding, water stress, heat stress, and other common natural disasters and physical climate risks. In particular, (i) a significant portion of our lab development projects and approximately 67% of our lab portfolio (based on gross asset value as of December 31, 2023) was concentrated in California, which is known to be subject to earthquakes, wildfires, and other natural disasters, and (ii) approximately 69% of our CCRC portfolio (based on gross asset value as of December 31, 2023) was concentrated in Florida, which is known to be subject to hurricanes. While we maintain insurance coverage for earthquakes, fires, hurricanes, windstorms, floods, and other natural disasters and physical climate risks, we may be unable to purchase the limits and terms we desire on a commercially reasonable basis due to increased insurance costs or the unavailability of insurance for certain exposures in other regions. We maintain additional earthquake insurance for our properties that are located in the vicinity of active earthquake zones in amounts and with deductibles we believe are commercially reasonable. Because of our significant concentration in the seismically active regions of South San Francisco, California, and San Diego, California, an earthquake in these areas could damage a significant portion of our lab portfolio. Similarly, a hurricane in Florida could damage a significant portion of our CCRC portfolio. As a result, aggregate deductible amounts may be material, and our insurance coverage may be materially insufficient to cover our losses. Furthermore, there are certain exposures for which we do not purchase insurance because we do not believe it is economically feasible to do so or there is no viable insurance market. If one of our properties experiences a loss that is uninsured or that exceeds policy coverage limits, we could lose our investment in the damaged property as well as the anticipated future cash flows from such property. If the damaged property is subject to recourse indebtedness, we could continue to be liable for the indebtedness even if the property is irreparably damaged. In addition, even if damage to our properties is covered by insurance, a disruption of business caused by a casualty event may result in loss of revenues for us. Any business interruption insurance may not fully compensate the lender or us for such loss of revenue. Our insurance coverage does not include damages as a result of a pandemic (such as Covid), including business interruption, loss of revenue or earnings, or any related effects (e.g., increased costs related to personal protective equipment, sanitization/sterilization of surfaces and equipment, and additional staffing). Insurance coverage for pandemics is not generally available; if it does become available again, it may not be on commercially reasonable terms and we may be unable to receive insurance proceeds that would compensate us fully for our liabilities, costs, and expenses in the event of a pandemic. 19 Our CCRC and senior housing operators also face various forms of class-action lawsuits from time to time, such as wage and hour and consumer rights actions, which generally are not covered by insurance. These class actions could result in significant defense costs, as well as settlements or verdicts that materially decrease anticipated revenues from a property and can result in the loss of a portion or all of our invested capital. We may also incur significant out-of-pocket costs associated with legal proceedings or other claims from residents and patients at our properties. Any of the foregoing risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. In addition, the rise in outsized jury verdicts and/or intensifying natural disasters could threaten policy limits and/or sublimits, which may result in the exhaustion of available insurance coverage for the remainder of the policy year. These events could also have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Our use of joint ventures may limit our returns on and our flexibility with jointly owned investments. From time to time, we develop, acquire, and/or recapitalize properties in joint ventures with other persons or entities when circumstances warrant the use of these structures. Our participation in joint ventures is subject to risks that may not be present with other methods of ownership, including: • our joint venture partners could have investment and financing goals that are inconsistent with our objectives, including the timing, terms, and strategies for any investments, and what levels of debt to incur or carry; • because we lack sole decision-making authority, we could experience impasses or disputes relating to certain decisions, including those related to budget approvals, entitlements, construction and development, acquisitions, sales of assets, debt financing, execution of lease agreements, and vendor approvals, which could result in delayed decisions and missed opportunities and could require us to expend additional resources on litigation or arbitration to resolve; • our joint venture partners may have competing interests that create conflicts of interest in our markets; • our ability to transfer our interest in a joint venture to a third party may be restricted; • the market for our interest may be limited and/or valued lower than fair market value; • our joint venture partners may be structured differently than us for tax purposes, and this could create conflicts of interest and risks to our REIT status or could restrict the ways in which we are able to exit investments; • our joint venture partners might become insolvent, fail to fund their share of required capital contributions or fail to fulfill their obligations as a joint venture partner, which may require us to infuse our own capital into the venture on behalf of the partner despite other competing uses for such capital; • our joint venture agreements may contain anti-competitive restrictions that impact certain of our non-joint venture assets and require us to manage the non-joint venture assets in a manner we otherwise would not; • our joint venture agreements may in certain circumstances grant our partners a right of first refusal to acquire certain of our non-joint venture assets; • our joint venture agreements may give our partners management rights that allow them to make operational or other decisions with which we disagree or that we would manage differently; and • our joint venture agreements may impose limitations or caps on the property management fees that we otherwise would have been entitled to receive if the underlying property were wholly owned. In addition, in some instances, our joint venture partner will have the right to cause us to sell our interest, or acquire their interest, at a time when we otherwise would not have initiated such a transaction. Our ability to acquire our partner’s interest will be limited if we lack sufficient capital resources. This could require us to sell our interest in the joint venture when we might otherwise prefer to retain it. Any of the foregoing risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Rent escalators or contingent rent provisions in our leases could hinder our profitability and growth. We derive a significant portion of our revenues from leasing properties pursuant to leases that generally provide for fixed rental rates, subject to annual escalations. If inflation exceeds our annual escalations, as it often recently has, our growth and profitability may be limited. Under certain leases, a portion of the tenant’s rental payment to us is based on the property’s revenues (i.e., contingent rent). If a tenant’s revenue at a rental property with contingent rent declines, our rental revenues would decrease. 20 Additionally, some of our leases provide that annual rent is modified based on changes in the Consumer Price Index or other thresholds (i.e., contingent rent escalators). If the Consumer Price Index does not increase or other applicable thresholds are not met, rental rates may not increase as anticipated or at all, which could hinder our profitability and growth. Furthermore, if economic conditions result in significant increases in the Consumer Price Index, but the escalations under our leases with contingent rent escalators are capped or the increase in the Consumer Price Index exceeds our tenants’ ability to pay, our growth and profitability also may be limited. Competition may make it difficult to identify and purchase, or develop, suitable healthcare properties to grow our investment portfolio, to finance acquisitions on favorable terms, or to retain or attract tenants and operators. We face significant competition from other REITs, investment companies, private equity and hedge fund investors, sovereign funds, healthcare operators, lenders, developers, and other institutional investors, some of whom may have greater resources and lower costs of capital than we do. Increased competition and resulting capitalization rate compression make it more challenging for us to identify and successfully capitalize on opportunities that meet our business goals and could improve the bargaining power of property owners seeking to sell, thereby impeding our investment, acquisition, and development activities. Similarly, our properties face competition for tenants and operators from other properties in the same market, which may affect our ability to attract and retain tenants and operators, or may reduce the rents we are able to charge. The failure to capitalize on our development pipeline, identify and purchase a sufficient quantity of healthcare properties at favorable prices, finance acquisitions on commercially favorable terms, or attract and retain profitable tenants could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We may be unable to successfully foreclose or exercise rights on the collateral securing our real estate-related loans and, even if we are successful in our foreclosure or realization efforts, we may be unable to successfully operate, occupy, or reposition the underlying real estate. If a borrower defaults under one of our mortgages, we may look to foreclose on the loan or take additional actions, including acquiring title to the collateral via statutory or judicial foreclosure or commencing collection litigation. We may determine that substantial improvements or repairs to the property are necessary in order to maximize the property’s investment potential. In some cases, because our collateral consists of the equity interests in an entity that directly or indirectly owns the applicable real property or interests in other operating properties, we may not have full recourse with respect to assets of that entity, or that entity may have incurred unexpected liabilities, either of which would preclude us from fully recovering our investment. Borrowers may contest enforcement of foreclosure or other remedies, seek bankruptcy protection against our exercise of enforcement or other remedies, and/or bring claims for lender liability in response to actions to enforce mortgage obligations. Because many of the properties securing our mortgage loans are licensed senior housing health care facilities, we would also need to navigate and comply with various healthcare regulatory matters in a variety of states in connection with any foreclosure effort. Foreclosure or collections-related costs, high loan-to-value ratios, healthcare regulatory issues or consents, or declines in the value of the property, may prevent us from realizing an amount equal to our mortgage balance upon foreclosure or conclusion of litigation, and we may be required to record a valuation allowance for such losses. Even if we are able to successfully foreclose on the collateral securing our real estate-related loans, we may acquire properties for which we may be unable to expeditiously secure tenants or operators, if at all, or that are burdened with healthcare regulatory compliance issues that need to be addressed, or we may acquire equity interests that we are unable to immediately resell or otherwise liquidate due to limitations under the securities laws, either of which would adversely affect our ability to fully recover our investment. Alternatively, we may determine to sell a distressed loan for less than full value, in which event we may incur a loss on the investment. We may be required to recognize reserves, allowances, credit losses, or impairment charges. Declines in the value of our properties or other assets or loan collateral, financial deterioration of our tenants, borrowers, or other obligors, or other factors may result in the recognition of reserves, allowances, credit losses, or impairment charges. Our determination of such reserves, allowances, or credit losses relies on estimates regarding the fair value of any loan collateral, which is a complex and subjective process. In addition, we evaluate our assets for impairments based on various triggers, including market conditions, our current intentions with respect to holding or disposing of the assets and the expected future undiscounted cash flows from the assets. Impairments, reserves, allowances, and credit losses are based on estimates and assumptions that are inherently uncertain, may increase or decrease in the future, and may not represent or reflect the ultimate value of, or loss that we ultimately realize with respect to, the relevant assets. Any such impairment, reserve, allowance, or credit loss, or any change in any of the foregoing, could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. 21 We may invest substantial resources and time in transactions that are not consummated. We regularly review potential transactions in order to maximize stockholder value. Our review process may require significant management attention, and a potential transaction could be abandoned or rejected by us or the other parties involved after we expend significant resources and time. For additional information on risks related to the consummation of the Mergers, see “—Risks Relating to the Mergers” below. We may not be able to successfully integrate or operate acquisitions, or may incur unanticipated liabilities. Successful integration of acquired companies depends primarily on our ability to consolidate operations, systems, procedures, properties, and personnel, and to eliminate redundancies and reduce costs. We may encounter difficulties in these integrations. Potential difficulties associated with acquisitions include: (i) our ability to effectively monitor and manage our expanded portfolio of properties; (ii) the loss of key employees; (iii) the disruption of our ongoing business or that of the acquired entity; (iv) possible inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, and policies; and (v) the assumption of unexpected liabilities and claims, including: • liabilities relating to the cleanup or remediation of undisclosed environmental conditions; • unasserted claims of vendors, residents, patients, or other persons dealing with the seller; • liabilities, claims, and litigation, whether or not incurred in the ordinary course of business, relating to periods prior to our acquisition; • claims for indemnification by general partners, directors, officers, and others indemnified by the seller; • claims for return of government reimbursement payments; and • liabilities for taxes relating to periods prior to our acquisition. In addition, acquired companies and their properties may fail to perform as expected, including with respect to estimated cost savings. Inaccurate assumptions regarding future rental or occupancy rates could result in overly optimistic estimates of future revenues. Similarly, we may underestimate future operating expenses or the costs necessary to bring properties up to standards established for their intended use or for property improvements. If we have difficulties with any of these areas, or if we later discover additional liabilities or experience unforeseen costs relating to our acquired companies, we may not achieve the anticipated economic benefits from our acquisitions, and this may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We may be affected by unfavorable resolution of litigation or disputes and rising liability and insurance costs as a result thereof or other market factors. Our tenants, operators, property managers, and borrowers are from time to time parties to litigation, including, for example, disputes regarding the quality of care at healthcare properties. The effect of litigation may materially increase the costs incurred by our tenants, operators, property managers, and borrowers, including costs to monitor and report quality of care compliance. In addition, the cost of professional liability, medical malpractice, property, business interruption, general liability, and insurance policies can be significant and may increase or not be available at a reasonable cost or at all. Cost increases could cause our tenants and borrowers to be unable to make their lease or mortgage payments or fail to purchase the appropriate liability and malpractice insurance, or cause our borrowers to be unable to meet their obligations to us, potentially decreasing our revenues and increasing our collection and litigation costs. Cost increases could also lead our operators and property managers to increase the fees they charge, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Furthermore, with respect to our CCRC properties and the properties in our SWF SH JV, all of which are operated in RIDEA structures, we generally directly bear the costs of any such increases in litigation, monitoring, reporting, and insurance due to our direct exposure to the cash flows of such properties. We are responsible for these claims, litigation, and liabilities, with limited indemnification rights against our operators, which are typically based on the gross negligence or willful misconduct by the operator. Although our leases provide us with certain information rights with respect to our tenants, one or more of our tenants may be or become party to pending litigation or investigation of which we are unaware or in which we do not have a right to participate or evaluate. In such cases, we would be unable to determine the potential impact of such litigation or investigation on our tenants or our business or results. Moreover, negative publicity of any of our operators’, property managers’, or tenants’ litigation, other legal proceedings or investigations may also negatively impact their and our reputation, resulting in lower customer demand and revenues, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. 22 We may also be named as defendants in lawsuits arising out of our alleged actions or the alleged actions of our tenants, operators, or property managers for which such tenants, operators, or property managers may have agreed to indemnify us. Unfavorable resolution of any such litigation or negative publicity as a result of such litigation could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Regardless of the outcome, litigation or other legal proceedings may result in substantial costs, disruption of our normal business operations, and the diversion of management attention. We may be unable to prevail in, or achieve a favorable settlement of, any pending or future legal action against us. Even when a tenant or operator is obligated to indemnify us for liability incurred as a result of a lawsuit pursuant to the terms of its agreement with us, the tenant may fail to satisfy those obligations and, in such event, we would have to incur the costs that should have been covered by the tenant, operator, or property manager and to determine whether to expend additional resources to seek the contractually owed indemnity from that tenant, operator, or property manager, including potentially through litigation or arbitration. In some instances, we may decide not to enforce our indemnification rights if we believe that enforcement of such rights would be more detrimental to our business than alternative approaches. Regardless, such an event would divert management attention and may result in a disruption to our normal business operations, any or all of which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Environmental compliance costs and liabilities associated with our real estate-related investments may be substantial and may materially impair the value of those investments. Federal, state and local laws, ordinances, and regulations may require us, as a current or previous owner of real estate, to investigate and clean up certain hazardous or toxic substances released at a property. We may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for injury or property damage and for investigation and cleanup costs incurred in connection with the contamination. The costs of cleanup and remediation could be substantial. In addition, some environmental laws create a lien on the contaminated site in favor of the government for damages and the costs it incurs in connection with the contamination, and/or impose fines and penalties on the property owner with respect to such contamination. Although we currently carry environmental insurance on our properties in an amount that we believe is commercially reasonable and generally require our tenants and operators to indemnify us for environmental liabilities they cause, such liabilities could exceed the amount of our insurance, the financial ability of the tenant or operator to indemnify us, or the value of the contaminated property. As the owner of a site, we may also be held liable to third parties for damages and injuries resulting from environmental contamination emanating from the site. We may also experience environmental costs and liabilities arising from conditions not known to us or disrupted during development. The cost of defending against these claims, complying with environmental regulatory requirements, conducting remediation of any contaminated property, or paying personal injury or other claims or fines could be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. In addition, the presence of contamination or the failure to remediate contamination may materially adversely affect our ability to use, develop, sell, or lease the property or to borrow using the property as collateral. ESG and sustainability commitments and requirements, as well as stakeholder expectations, may impose additional costs and expose us to new risks. Investors, tenants, business partners and other stakeholders, as well as regulators and other groups, are increasingly focusing on ESG and sustainability commitments and performance. Some investors may use ESG factors to guide their investment strategies and, in some cases, may choose not to invest in us if our ESG commitment and performance do not satisfy their criteria. Similarly, some business partners or tenants may use ESG factors to guide their business decisions and choose not to do business with us if they believe our ESG or sustainability policies are inadequate. Third-party providers of ESG ratings have increased in number, resulting in varied and, in some cases, inconsistent standards. In addition, the criteria by which companies’ ESG and sustainability practices are assessed are evolving, which could result in greater expectations for us to undertake costly initiatives to satisfy such new criteria. We have established corporate goals to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, energy, water and waste in our operations, and various regions in which we own properties are establishing building performance standards. Our reputation may be adversely affected if we do not meet our announced goals or these external standards. If we fail to satisfy the expectations of investors, tenants, business partners or other stakeholders, or our announced goals and other initiatives are not executed as planned, our reputation and financial results could be adversely affected, and our revenues, results of operations and ability to grow our business may be negatively impacted. In addition, we may incur significant costs in attempting to comply with ESG policies or third party expectations or demands. In addition, changes in federal, state, and local legislation and regulation relating to climate change could require (i) increased capital expenditures to improve the energy efficiency or resiliency of our existing properties and increase the costs of new developments and (ii) increased compliance costs for us and our tenants, in each case without a corresponding increase in revenue. In addition, our reputation may be adversely affected if we do not meet stakeholder expectations to mitigate climate risk in a transition to a low-carbon economy. 23 We may be impacted by epidemics, pandemics, or other infectious diseases, including Covid, and health and safety measures intended to reduce their spread. Epidemics, pandemics, or other infectious diseases, including future outbreaks of Covid and its variants, as well as both future widespread and localized outbreaks of infectious diseases and other health concerns, and the health and safety measures taken to reduce the spread or lessen the impact, could cause a material disruption to our industry or deteriorate the economy as a whole. The impacts of such events could be severe and far-reaching, and may impact our operations in several ways, including: (i) tenants could experience deteriorating financial condition and be unable or unwilling to pay rent on time and in full; (ii) we may have to restructure tenants' obligations and may not be able to do so on terms that are favorable to us; (iii) inquiries and tours at our properties could decrease; (iv) move-ins, new tenanting efforts, and re-letting efforts could slow or stop altogether; (v) move-outs and potential early termination of leases thereunder could increase; (vi) operating expenses, including the costs of certain essential services or supplies, including payments to third-party contractors, service providers, and employees essential to ensure continuity in our building operations, may increase; (vii) procedures normally conducted on our properties may be disrupted, adversely affecting the economic viability of our tenants; and (viii) costs of development, including expenditures for materials utilized in construction and labor essential to complete existing developments in progress, may increase substantially. Human capital risks, including the loss or limited availability of our key personnel, could disrupt or impair our operations. We face rising labor costs and increased competition for talent. Insufficient employee development, inadequate succession planning or an inability to successfully implement a hybrid work model could negatively impact our business and operations. We also depend on the efforts of our executive officers for the success of our business. Although they are covered by our Executive Severance Plan and Change in Control Plan, which provide many of the benefits typically found in executive employment agreements, none of our executive officers have employment agreements with us. The loss or limited availability of the services of any of our executive officers, or our inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel, could, at least temporarily, disrupt, or impair our operations. We rely on information technology in our operations, and any material failure, inadequacy, interruption, or security failure of that technology could harm our business. We rely on information technology networks, enterprise applications, and other information systems to process, transmit, and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes, including financial transactions and records, to maintain personal identifying information and tenant and lease data, and to operate building management systems. We utilize software and cloud-based technology from third-party service providers, on whom our information systems depend. We rely on commercially available systems, software, tools, and monitoring to provide security for the processing, transmission, and storage of confidential tenant and customer data, including individually identifiable information relating to financial accounts, as well as building access, security, and operations. Although we have taken steps to protect the security of our information systems, with multiple layers of controls around the data maintained in those systems, it is possible that our safety and security measures will not prevent the systems’ improper functioning or damage, or the improper access of systems or disclosure of personally identifiable information such as in the event of cyber-attacks or other cybersecurity incidents. Furthermore, because our operators as well as other third-party service providers with whom we and they do business (including vendors, software creators and cloud solution and cybersecurity providers) also rely on the Internet, information technology networks, enterprise applications, systems, and software, some of our data may be vulnerable to cybersecurity incidents or cybersecurity threats involving our operators and third parties with whom we or they do business. We do not control the cybersecurity systems and protocols put in place by our operators or other third parties, and such parties may have limited indemnification obligations to us, which could cause us to be negatively impacted as a result. 24 Cybersecurity incidents and cybersecurity threats affecting our or our operators’ or other third party providers’ information systems, including those caused by physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses, malware, worms, attacks by hackers or foreign governments, ransomware attacks, disruptions from unauthorized access and tampering, including through social engineering such as phishing or vishing attacks, coordinated denial-of-service attacks, and similar breaches, could result in, among other things: (i) system disruptions; (ii) shutdowns; (iii) unauthorized access to or disclosure of confidential information, including as a result of impersonation of authorized users or manipulated communications; (iv) misappropriation of our or our business partners’ proprietary or confidential information; (v) breach of our legal, regulatory, or contractual obligations; (vi) inability to access or rely upon critical business records or systems; or (vii) other delays in our operations. In some cases, it may be difficult to anticipate or immediately detect such cybersecurity threats and cybersecurity incidents and the damage they cause. The risk of cybersecurity incidents and cybersecurity threats has generally increased as the number, intensity, and sophistication of attacks and intrusions affecting companies generally have increased, and we have seen a significant increase in cyber phishing attacks. The risk of security breaches has also increased under our hybrid work model. We may be required to expend significant financial resources to detect, protect against or remediate such cybersecurity incidents or cybersecurity threats. In addition, our technology infrastructure and information systems are vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural disasters, power loss, and telecommunications failures. Any failure to adequately train employees or to maintain proper function, security, and availability of our and our operators’ information systems and the data maintained in those systems could interrupt our operations, damage our reputation, subject us to liability claims or regulatory penalties, harm our business relationships, or increase our security and insurance costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our tenants and borrowers may also from time to time experience cybersecurity incidents or cybersecurity threats that compromise, damage or disrupt their information systems or result in the loss or misuse of confidential information, intellectual property or sensitive or personal information. Any resulting financial impact to our tenants or borrowers, including liability claims or regulatory penalties, increased security and insurance costs as well as business impacts resulting from any damage to their reputation or harm to their business relationships, could negatively impact the ability of our tenants and borrowers to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Capital Structure and Market Conditions Volatility, disruption, or uncertainty in the financial markets may impair our ability to raise capital, obtain new financing or refinance existing obligations, and fund acquisition and development activities. Increased or prolonged market disruption, volatility, or uncertainty could have a material adverse effect on our ability to raise capital, obtain new financing or refinance our existing obligations as they mature, and fund acquisition and development activities. Our lenders and other financial institutions could also require us to agree to more restrictive covenants, grant liens on our assets as collateral, and/or accept other terms that are not commercially beneficial to us in order to obtain financing. One or more of our lenders under our credit facility could refuse or fail to fund their financing commitment to us as a result of lender liquidity and/or viability challenges, which financing commitments we may not be able to replace on favorable terms, or at all. In addition, the failure of a bank, or events involving limited liquidity, defaults, non-performance or other adverse conditions in the financial or credit markets impacting financial institutions at which we maintain balances, or concerns or rumors about such events, could lead to disruptions in access to our bank deposits, our inability to access our bank deposits in excess of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) limits, or otherwise adversely impact our liquidity and financial performance, and our tenants, operators, and borrowers could be similarly adversely affected. Market volatility could also lead to significant uncertainty in the valuation of our investments and those of our joint ventures, which may result in a substantial decrease in the value of our properties and those of our joint ventures. As a result, we may be unable to recover the carrying amount of such investments and the associated goodwill, if any, which may require us to recognize impairment charges in earnings. Increased borrowing costs could materially adversely impact our ability to refinance existing debt, sell properties, and conduct investment activities. We currently have and may incur additional debt obligations that have variable interest rates and related payments that vary with the movement of certain indices. During inflationary periods, interest rates have historically increased. For example, in response to recent inflationary conditions, actions taken by the FOMC have led to rising interest rates, which may continue to rise and remain elevated for the foreseeable future. Increases in interest rates result in increased interest costs for our variable rate debt and our new debt, which adversely affects our cost of capital and makes the financing of any acquisition and development activity more costly. In addition, increased interest rates have lowered, and could continue to lower, the amount third parties are willing to pay for our properties, thereby negatively impacting our ability to reposition our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. 25 Rising borrowing costs could limit our ability to refinance existing debt when it matures, or cause us to pay higher interest rates upon refinancing and increased interest expense on refinanced indebtedness. We manage a portion of our exposure to interest rate risk by accessing debt with staggered maturities and through the use of derivative instruments, primarily interest rate cap and swap agreements. These agreements involve risk, including that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations under these arrangements, that these arrangements may not be effective in reducing our exposure to interest rate changes, that the amount of income we earn from hedging transactions may be limited by federal tax provisions governing REITs, and that these arrangements may cause us to incur higher debt service costs than would otherwise be the case. Failure to hedge effectively against interest rate risk could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, increased borrowing costs and attendant negative impacts on our business can reduce the amount investors are willing to pay for our common stock. Because REIT stocks are often perceived as high-yield investments, investors may perceive less relative benefit to owning REIT stocks as borrowing costs increase. Cash available for distribution to stockholders may be insufficient to make dividend distributions at expected levels and are made at the discretion of our Board of Directors. Decreases in cash available for distributions may result in us being unable to make dividend distributions at expected levels. Our failure to make distributions commensurate with market expectations would likely result in a decrease in the market price of our common stock. Further, all distributions are made at the discretion of our Board of Directors in accordance with Maryland law and depend on: (i) our earnings; (ii) our financial condition; (iii) debt and equity capital available to us; (iv) our expectations for future capital requirements and operating performance; (v) covenants in our financial or other contractual arrangements, including those in our credit facility agreement; (vi) maintenance of our REIT qualification; and (vii) other factors as our Board of Directors may deem relevant from time to time. If access to external capital is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, it could have a material adverse effect on our ability to meet commitments as they become due or make investments necessary to grow our business. We periodically rely on external sources of capital (including debt and equity financing) to fulfill our capital requirements. The availability of external capital sources depends upon several factors, some of which we have little or no control over, including: • general availability of capital, including less favorable terms, rising interest rates, and increased borrowing costs; • the market price of the shares of our equity securities and the credit ratings of our debt and any preferred securities we may issue; • the market’s perception of our growth potential and our current and potential future earnings and cash distributions; • our degree of financial leverage and operational flexibility; • the financial integrity of our lenders, which might impair their ability to meet their commitments to us or their willingness to make additional loans to us, and our inability to replace the financing commitment of any such lender on favorable terms, or at all; • bank failures or other events affecting financial institutions, which could adversely affect our or our tenants’, operators’, and borrowers’ liquidity and financial performance; • the stability of the market value of our properties; • the financial performance and general market perception of our tenants and operators; • changes in the credit ratings on U.S. government debt securities or default or delay in payment by the U.S. of its obligations; • issues facing the healthcare industry, including healthcare reform and changes in government reimbursement policies; and • the performance of the national and global economies generally, including any economic downturn and volatility in the financial markets. If access to capital is unavailable on acceptable terms or at all, it could have a material adverse impact on our ability to fund operations, repay or refinance our debt obligations, fund dividend payments, acquire properties, and make the investments in development and redevelopment activities, as well as capital expenditures, needed to grow our business. 26 Our level of indebtedness may increase and materially adversely affect our future operations. Our outstanding indebtedness as of December 31, 2023 was approximately $6.9 billion. We may incur additional indebtedness, which may be substantial. Any significant additional indebtedness would likely negatively affect the credit ratings of our debt and require us to dedicate a growing portion of our cash flow to interest and principal payments. Greater demands on our cash resources may reduce funds available to us to pay dividends, conduct development activities, make capital expenditures and acquisitions, or carry out other aspects of our business strategy. Increased indebtedness can also make us more vulnerable to general adverse economic and industry conditions and create competitive disadvantages for us compared to other companies with comparatively lower debt levels. Increased future debt service obligations may limit our operational flexibility, including our ability to finance or refinance our properties, contribute properties to joint ventures, or sell properties as needed. In addition, any changes to benchmark rates, or uncertainty as to the nature of such potential changes, may increase the cost of our variable rate debt or cost of funds, adversely affect the trading market for our securities, have an unpredictable impact on the financial markets or otherwise affect our financial condition and results of operations. Covenants in our debt instruments limit our operational flexibility, and breaches of these covenants could result in adverse actions by our creditors. The terms of our current secured and unsecured debt instruments require us to comply with a number of customary financial and other covenants, such as maintaining leverage ratios, minimum tangible net worth requirements, REIT status, and certain levels of debt service coverage. Our ability to incur additional debt and to conduct business in general is subject to compliance with these covenants, which limits our operational flexibility. For example, mortgages on our properties contain customary covenants such as those that limit or restrict our ability, without the consent of the lender, to further encumber or sell the applicable properties, or to replace the applicable tenant or operator. Breaches of certain covenants may result in defaults under the mortgages on our properties and cross-defaults under certain of our other indebtedness, even if we satisfy our payment obligations to the respective obligee. Covenants that limit our operational flexibility, as well as defaults resulting from the breach of any of these covenants, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile. The market price of our common stock has been, and may in the future be, highly volatile and subject to wide fluctuations. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. The stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many companies in industries similar or related to ours and that have been unrelated to these companies’ operating performances. If the market price of our common stock declines significantly, you may be unable to resell your shares at a gain. We cannot assure you that the market price of our common stock will not fluctuate or decline significantly in the future. Some of the factors that could negatively affect our share price or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our common stock include: • actual or anticipated variations in our quarterly operating results, guidance, or distributions; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • adverse market reaction to any increased indebtedness we may incur in the future; • issuance of additional equity securities; • actions by institutional stockholders; • the publication of research reports and articles (or false or misleading information) about us, our tenants, the real estate industry, or the industries in which our tenants operate; • speculation in the press or investment community and investor sentiment regarding commercial real estate generally, our industry sectors or other real estate sectors, the industries in which our tenants operate, and the regions in which our properties are located; • short selling of our common stock or related derivative securities; and • general market and economic conditions. 27 Adverse changes in our credit ratings could impair our ability to obtain additional debt and equity financing on favorable terms. Our credit ratings affect the amount and type of capital, as well as the terms of any financing we may obtain. The credit ratings of our senior unsecured debt are based on, among other things, our operating performance, liquidity and leverage ratios, geographic and tenant concentration, and pending or future changes in the regulatory framework applicable to our operators and our industry. If we are unable to maintain our current credit ratings, we would likely incur higher borrowing costs, which would make it more difficult or expensive to obtain additional financing or refinance existing obligations and commitments. An adverse change in our outlook may ultimately lead to a downgrade in our credit ratings, which would trigger additional borrowing costs or other potentially negative consequences under our current credit facilities and debt instruments. Also, if our credit ratings are downgraded, or general market conditions were to ascribe higher risk to our ratings, our industry, or us, our access to capital and the cost of any future debt financing will be further negatively impacted. In addition, the terms of future debt agreements could include more restrictive covenants, or require incremental collateral, which may further restrict our business operations or be unavailable due to our covenant restrictions then in effect. There is no guarantee that debt or equity financings will be available in the future to fund future acquisitions, developments, or general operating expenses, or that such financing will be available on terms consistent with our historical agreements or expectations. Risks Related to the Regulatory Environment Tenants, operators, and borrowers that fail to comply with federal, state, local, and international laws and regulations, including resident health and safety requirements, as well as licensure, certification, and inspection requirements, may cease to operate or be unable to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us. Our tenants, operators, and borrowers across our segments are subject to or impacted by extensive, frequently changing federal, state, and local laws and regulations. See “Item 1, Business—Government Regulation, Licensing and Enforcement—Healthcare Licensure and Certificate of Need” for a discussion of certain of these laws and regulations. Unannounced surveys, inspections, or audits occur frequently, including following a regulator’s receipt of a complaint about a facility, and these surveys, inspections, and audits can result in deficiencies and further adverse action. Our tenants’, operators’, or borrowers’ failure to comply with any of the laws, regulations, or requirements applicable to them could result in: (i) loss of accreditation; (ii) denial of reimbursement; (iii) imposition of fines; (iv) suspension or decertification from government healthcare programs; (v) civil liability; and (vi) in certain instances, suspension, or denial of admissions, criminal penalties, loss of license, or closure of the property and/or the incurrence of considerable costs arising from an investigation or regulatory action, which may have an adverse effect on properties that we own and lease to a third party tenant in our lab and outpatient medical segments, that we own and operate through a RIDEA structure in our CCRC segment or our SWF SH JV, or on which we hold a mortgage, and therefore may materially adversely impact us. Furthermore, we are required under RIDEA to rely on our operators to oversee and direct these aspects of the properties’ operations to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations. If one or more of our healthcare properties fails to comply with applicable laws and regulations, our TRS would be responsible (except in limited circumstances, such as the gross negligence or willful misconduct of our operators, where we would have a contractual claim against them), which could subject our TRS to penalties including loss or suspension of licenses, certification or accreditation, exclusion from government healthcare programs (i.e., Medicare, Medicaid), administrative sanctions, and civil monetary penalties. Some states also reserve the right to sanction affiliates of a licensee when they take administrative action against the licensee, and require a licensee to report all healthcare-related administrative actions that have been brought against any of the licensee’s affiliates, even in other states. Additionally, when we receive individually identifiable health information relating to residents of our healthcare properties, we are subject to federal and state data privacy and security laws and rules, and could be subject to liability in the event of an audit, complaint, cybersecurity incident, or data breach. Furthermore, our TRS has exposure to professional liability claims that could arise out of resident claims, such as quality of care, and the associated litigation costs. 28 Required regulatory approvals can delay or prohibit transfers of our senior housing properties. Transfers of senior housing properties, including in connection with the foreclosure of a real-estate secured loan, to successor owners or operators are typically subject to regulatory approvals or ratifications, including change of ownership approvals for licensure and Medicare / Medicaid (if applicable) that are not required for transfers of other types of commercial operations and other types of real estate. The sale of, or replacement of any operator at, our senior housing facilities, or the foreclosure of a loan secured by senior housing real estate, could be delayed by the regulatory approval process of any federal, state, or local government agency necessary for the transfer of the property or the replacement of the operator licensed to manage the property, during which time the property may experience performance declines. We may also elect to use an interim licensing structure to facilitate such transfers, which structure expedites the transfer by allowing a third party to operate under our license until the required regulatory approvals are obtained, but could subject us to fines or penalties if the third party fails to comply with applicable laws and regulations and fails to indemnify us for such fines or penalties pursuant to the terms of its agreement with us. Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and fire, safety, and other regulations may require us to make expenditures that adversely affect our cash flows. Our properties must comply with applicable ADA and any similar state and local laws. These laws may require removal of barriers to access by persons with disabilities in public areas of our properties. Noncompliance could result in the incurrence of additional costs associated with bringing the properties into compliance, the imposition of fines or an award of damages to private litigants in individual lawsuits or as part of a class action. We could also be required to expend funds to comply with the provisions of the ADA and similar state and local laws on behalf of tenants, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we are required to operate our properties in compliance with fire and safety regulations, building codes and other land use regulations. New and revised regulations and codes may be adopted by governmental agencies and bodies and become applicable to our properties. For example, new safety laws for senior housing properties were adopted following the particularly damaging 2018 hurricane season. Compliance could require substantial capital expenditures, both for significant upgrades and for tenant relocations that may be necessary depending on the scope and duration of upgrades, and may restrict our ability to renovate our properties. These expenditures and restrictions could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and cash flows. Laws or regulations prohibiting eviction of our tenants, even on a temporary basis, could have a material adverse effect on our revenues if our tenants fail to make their contractual rent payments to us. Various federal, state, and local governments previously enacted, and may again enact, laws, regulations, and moratoriums or take other actions that could limit our ability to evict tenants until such laws, regulations, or moratoriums are reversed or lifted. In particular, several state and local governments implemented eviction moratoriums as a result of the Covid pandemic that applied to both residential and commercial tenants. Although these moratoriums have generally terminated or expired, federal, state, and local governments could enact moratoriums under similar circumstances in the future. While we generally have arrangements and other agreements that give us the right under specified circumstances to terminate a lease or evict a tenant for nonpayment of contractual rent, such laws, regulations, and moratoriums may restrict our ability to begin eviction proceedings even where no rent or only partial rent is being paid. Further, under current laws and regulations, eviction proceedings for delinquent tenants are already costly and time-consuming, and, if there are existing backlogs or backlogs develop in courts due to higher than normal eviction proceedings, we may incur significant costs and it may take a significant amount of time to ultimately evict any tenant who is not meeting their contractual rent obligations. If we are restricted, delayed, or prohibited from evicting tenants for failing to make contractual rent payments, it may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. The requirements of, or changes to, governmental reimbursement programs such as Medicare or Medicaid may adversely affect our tenants’, operators’, and borrowers’ ability to meet their financial and other contractual obligations to us. Certain of our tenants, operators, and borrowers, as well as our owned assets in the CCRC segment and SWF SH JV, are affected, directly or indirectly, by a complex set of federal, state, and local laws and regulations pertaining to governmental reimbursement programs, including the CARES Act and other similar relief legislation enacted as a result of the Covid pandemic. These laws and regulations are subject to frequent and substantial changes that are sometimes applied retroactively. See “Item 1, Business—Government Regulation, Licensing and Enforcement.” For example, to the extent that our tenants, operators, or borrowers, or assets owned in our CCRC segment or through the SFW SH JV, receive a significant portion of their revenues from governmental payors, primarily Medicare and Medicaid, they are generally subject to, among other things: • statutory and regulatory changes, including changes that impact state reimbursement programs, particularly Medicaid reimbursement and managed care payments; 29 • retroactive rate adjustments and recoupment efforts; • recovery of program overpayments or set-offs; • federal, state, and local litigation and enforcement actions, including those relating to Covid and the failure to satisfy the terms and conditions of financial relief; • administrative proceedings; • policy interpretations; • payment or other delays by fiscal intermediaries or carriers; • government funding restrictions (at a program level or with respect to specific properties); • reduced reimbursement rates under managed care contracts; • changes in reimbursement rates, methods, or timing under governmental reimbursement programs, including changes that impact state reimbursement programs, particularly Medicaid reimbursement and managed care payments; • interruption or delays in payments due to any ongoing governmental investigations and audits at such properties or due to a partial or total federal or state government shutdown for a prolonged period of time; and • reputational harm of publicly disclosed enforcement actions, audits, or investigations related to billing and reimbursements. We are unable to predict future changes to or interpretations of, or the intensity of enforcement efforts with respect to, these laws and regulations, including those that pertain to the Medicare and Medicaid programs. The failure to comply with the extensive laws, regulations, and other requirements applicable to their business and the operation of our properties could result in, among other challenges: (i) becoming ineligible to receive reimbursement from governmental reimbursement programs or being compelled to repay amounts received, including under the CARES Act; (ii) becoming subject to prepayment reviews or claims for overpayments; (iii) bans on admissions of new patients or residents; (iv) civil or criminal penalties; and (v) significant operational changes, including requirements to increase staffing or the scope of care given to residents. These laws and regulations are enforced by a variety of federal, state, and local agencies and can also be enforced by private litigants through, among other things, federal and state false claims acts, which allow private litigants to bring qui tam or “whistleblower” actions. Any changes in the regulatory framework or the intensity or extent of governmental or private enforcement actions could have a material adverse effect on our tenants, operators, borrowers, and/or assets. The status of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, along with the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (collectively, the “Affordable Care Act”) and related regulations may be subject to change, and other health reform measures could be implemented as a result of political, legislative, regulatory, and administrative developments and judicial proceedings, including those with far reaching implications and effecting fundamental changes in the healthcare system. Federal and state authorities may continue to implement new or modified reimbursement methodologies that may negatively impact health care property operations. There can be no assurance that adequate reimbursements will be available for services provided by our operators and tenants. Additionally, the patient driven payment model utilized by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services to calculate reimbursement rates for patients in skilled nursing properties (which is among the unit types in our CCRCs) could result in decreases in payments to our operators and tenants or increase our operators’ and tenants’ costs. We cannot make any assessment as to the ultimate timing or the effect that any future changes may have on our tenants’, operators’, and borrowers’ costs of doing business, or the cost of doing business for or the assets owned in our CCRC segment or through the SFW SH JV, and on the amount of reimbursement by government and other third-party payors. Any significant limits on the scope of services reimbursed, reductions in reimbursement rates and fees, or increases in provider or similar types of taxes, could materially adversely affect their ability to meet their financial and contractual obligations to us. We could be negatively impacted by legislation to address federal government operations and administrative decisions affecting the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services. Congressional consideration of legislation pertaining to the federal debt ceiling, the Affordable Care Act, tax reform, and entitlement programs, including reimbursement rates for physicians, could have a material adverse effect on our tenants’, operators’, and borrowers’ liquidity, financial condition, or results of operations. In particular, reduced funding for entitlement programs such as Medicare and Medicaid would result in increased costs and fees for programs such as Medicare Advantage Plans and additional reductions in reimbursements to providers. Amendments to the Affordable Care Act in whole or in part and decisions by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services could impact the delivery of services and benefits under Medicare, Medicaid, or Medicare Advantage Plans and could affect our tenants and operators and the manner in which they are reimbursed by such programs. Any shutdown of the federal government that delays or disrupts payments or any other material adverse effect on payments to our tenants, operators, or borrowers could adversely affect their ability to satisfy their obligations to us and could have a material adverse effect on us. 30 Our participation in the CARES Act Provider Relief Fund and other Covid-related stimulus and relief programs could subject us or our operators to disruptive government and financial audits, enforcement actions, and recovery activity. Under the CARES Act and subsequent Covid relief legislation, Congress allocated more than $178 billion to eligible health care providers through the Public Health and Social Services Emergency Fund (the “Provider Relief Fund” or “PRF”). The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (“HHS”) distributed PRF awards through various general and targeted distributions. We and our senior housing operators (including operators of senior housing facilities that we have subsequently disposed of) received relief funds through several distributions. PRF funds are intended to reimburse eligible providers for unreimbursed health care-related expenses and lost revenues attributable to Covid and must be used only to prevent, prepare for, or respond to Covid. PRF funds received under certain targeted distributions are further limited to specific uses. Additionally, the PRF program imposes certain distribution-specific eligibility criteria and requires recipients to comply with various terms and conditions. PRF program terms and conditions include limitations and requirements governing use of PRF funds, implementation of controls, retention of records, audit and reporting to governmental authorities, and other PRF program requirements. Failure to comply with program requirements may result in payment recovery or other enforcement actions. HHS interpretation of applicable terms and requirements has evolved over time, and may continue to evolve. The interpretation and implementation of PRF requirements and related guidance remains uncertain, and there can be no assurance that we or our operators are or will remain in compliance with all PRF and Covid relief program requirements and interpretative guidance. PRF guidance or interpretations could change in ways that adversely impact the PRF funding we or our operators received, recognized, or are able to retain. We also may be subject to or incur costs related to PRF compliance activities, reporting, and financial audits, as well as government oversight and enforcement, including post-payment recovery and recoupment and government investigations, audits, enforcement activity, and penalties. Our current and former operators may similarly be impacted. Differences in operators’ PRF policies and protocols may adversely impact availability of data and our related reports and financial audits. Risks Related to Tax, Including REIT-Related Risks, and Related to Our Jurisdiction of Incorporation and Our Structure as an UPREIT Loss of our tax status as a REIT would substantially reduce our available funds and would have materially adverse consequences for us and the value of our common stock. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of numerous highly technical and complex provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), for which there are limited judicial and administrative interpretations, as well as the determination of various factual matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. We intend to continue to operate in a manner that enables us to qualify as a REIT. However, our qualification and taxation as a REIT depend upon our ability to meet the various qualification tests imposed under the Code, through actual annual operating results, asset diversification, distribution levels, and diversity of stock ownership. For example, to qualify as a REIT, at least 95% of our gross income in any year must be derived from qualifying sources, and we must make distributions to our stockholders aggregating annually to at least 90% of our REIT taxable income, excluding net capital gains. Rents we receive from a TRS in a RIDEA structure are treated as qualifying rents from real property for REIT tax purposes only if (i) they are paid pursuant to a lease of a “qualified healthcare property” and (ii) the operator qualifies as an “eligible independent contractor,” as each term is defined in the Code. If either of these requirements is not satisfied, then the rents we receive from the TRS will not be qualifying rents and we may not satisfy the REIT gross income requirements. Furthermore, new legislation, regulations, administrative interpretations, or court decisions could change the tax laws or interpretations of the tax laws regarding qualification as a REIT, or the federal income tax consequences of that qualification, in a manner that is materially adverse to our stockholders. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we have operated or will continue to operate in a manner so as to qualify or remain qualified as a REIT. If we lose our REIT status, we will face serious tax consequences that will substantially reduce the funds available to make payments of principal and interest on the debt securities we issue and to make distributions to stockholders. If we fail to qualify as a REIT: • we will not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income; • we will be subject to corporate-level income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates; • we will be subject to increased state and local income taxes; and • unless we are entitled to relief under relevant statutory provisions, we will be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which we fail to qualify as a REIT. As a result of all these factors, our failure to qualify as a REIT could also impair our ability to expand our business and raise capital and could materially adversely affect the value of our common stock. 31 Our taxable REIT subsidiaries (TRSs) may be subject to corporate level tax. Certain of our subsidiaries have elected or will elect with us to be treated as TRSs. Other than some activities relating to lodging and health care facilities, a TRS may generally engage in any business, including the provision of customary or non-customary services to tenants of its parent REIT that the parent REIT could not provide directly. TRSs are taxed as regular C corporations, and are thus generally required to pay regular corporate income tax, and potentially the alternative minimum tax, on their earnings. Any taxes paid by our TRSs will reduce the amounts that our TRSs could otherwise distribute to us. The tax imposed on any net income from “prohibited transactions” may limit our ability to engage in transactions which would be treated as sales for federal income tax purposes. We will be required to pay a 100% tax on any net income from prohibited transactions. Prohibited transactions are, in general, sales or other taxable dispositions of property, other than foreclosure property, held as inventory or primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary course of business. A sale will not be considered a prohibited transaction, however, if it meets certain safe harbor requirements. Although we do not intend to hold any properties that would be characterized as held for sale to customers in the ordinary course of our business (other than through a TRS), such characterization is a factual determination and no guarantee can be given that the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) would agree with our characterization of our properties or that we will always be able to take advantage of available safe harbors. Further changes to U.S. federal income tax laws could materially and adversely affect us and our stockholders. The present federal income tax treatment of REITs and various transactional structures that we utilize may be modified, possibly with retroactive effect, by legislative, judicial, or administrative action at any time, which could affect the federal income tax treatment of an investment in us. The federal income tax rules dealing with U.S. federal income taxation and REITs are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process, the IRS, and the U.S. Treasury Department, which results in statutory changes as well as revisions to regulations and interpretations. We cannot predict how changes in the tax laws might affect our investors or us. Revisions in federal tax laws and interpretations thereof could significantly and negatively affect our ability to qualify as a REIT, as well as the tax considerations relevant to an investment in us, or could cause us to change our investments and commitments. Potential deferred and contingent tax liabilities from corporate acquisitions could limit or delay future property sales. If, during the five-year period beginning on the date we acquire certain assets or companies in certain tax deferred transactions, we recognize a gain on the disposition of any property acquired, then, to the extent of the excess of (i) the fair market value of such property as of the acquisition date, over (ii) our adjusted income tax basis in such property as of that date, we will be required to pay a corporate-level federal income tax on this gain at the highest regular corporate rate. These potential tax effects could limit or delay future property sales. In addition, the IRS may assert liabilities against us for income taxes of certain entities we acquire for taxable years prior to the time that we acquire such entities, in which case we will owe these taxes plus interest and penalties, if any. There are uncertainties relating to the calculation of non-REIT tax earnings and profits (“E&P”) in certain acquisitions, which may require us to distribute E&P. In order to remain qualified as a REIT, we are required to distribute to our stockholders all of the accumulated non-REIT E&P of certain C corporations that we acquire, prior to the close of the first taxable year in which the acquisition occurs. Failure to make such E&P distributions could result in our disqualification as a REIT. The determination of the amount to be distributed in such E&P distributions is a complex factual and legal determination. We may have less than complete information at the time we undertake our analysis, or we may interpret the applicable law differently from the IRS. We currently believe that we have satisfied the requirements relating to such E&P distributions. There are, however, substantial uncertainties relating to the determination of E&P, including the possibility that the IRS could successfully assert that the taxable income of the companies acquired should be increased, which could increase our non-REIT E&P. Thus, we might fail to satisfy the requirement that we distribute all of our non-REIT E&P by the close of the first taxable year in which the acquisition occurs. Although there are procedures available to cure a failure to distribute all of our E&P, we cannot now determine whether we will be able to take advantage of these procedures or the economic impact on us of doing so. 32 Tax protection agreements may limit our ability to sell or otherwise dispose of certain properties and may require us to maintain certain debt levels that otherwise would not be required to operate our business. We acquired in the past and in the future may acquire properties or portfolios of properties through tax deferred contribution transactions in exchange for units in our DownREITs or Healthpeak OP. In connection with these transactions, our DownREITs have entered and, with Healthpeak OP, may in the future enter into tax protection agreements that enable contributing partners to defer the recognition of taxable gain resulting from the sale or other disposition of the contributed properties. Tax protection agreements may make it economically prohibitive to sell any properties that are subject to such agreements even though it may otherwise be in our stockholders’ best interests to do so. In addition, under these agreements, we may be required to maintain a minimum level of indebtedness throughout the term of the agreements regardless of whether such debt levels are otherwise required to operate our business. Physicians Realty Trust and the Physicians Partnership have also entered into similar tax protection arrangements with certain third parties and, as a result of the Mergers, we would inherit the obligations under such arrangements. Our charter contains ownership limits with respect to our common stock and other classes of capital stock. Our charter contains restrictions on the ownership and transfer of our common stock and preferred stock that are intended to assist us in preserving our qualification as a REIT. Under our charter, subject to certain exceptions, no person or entity may own, actually or constructively, more than 9.8% (by value or by number of shares, whichever is more restrictive) of the outstanding shares of our common stock or any class or series of our preferred stock. Additionally, our charter has a 9.9% ownership limitation on the direct or indirect ownership of our voting shares, which may include common stock or other classes of capital stock. Our Board of Directors, in its sole discretion, may exempt a proposed transferee from either ownership limit. The ownership limits may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or might otherwise be in the best interests of our stockholders. We are subject to certain provisions of Maryland law and our charter relating to business combinations that may prevent a transaction that may otherwise be in the interest of our stockholders. We are subject to the Maryland Business Combination Act (the “MBCA”), which provides that unless exempted, a Maryland corporation may not engage in certain business combinations with an “interested stockholder” or an affiliate of an interested stockholder for five years after the most recent date on which the interested stockholder became an interested stockholder, and thereafter unless specified criteria are met. In addition to the restrictions on business combinations contained in the MBCA, our charter also requires that, except in certain circumstances, “business combinations” with a “related person” must be approved by the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 90% of our outstanding voting stock. These restrictions on business combinations may delay, defer, or prevent a change of control or other transaction even if such transaction involves a premium price for our common stock or our stockholders believe that such transaction is otherwise in their best interests. Conflicts of interest may exist or could arise in the future between the interests of our stockholders and the interests of holders of Healthpeak OP common units, which may impede business decisions that could benefit our stockholders. Conflicts of interest may exist or could arise in the future as a result of the relationships between us and our affiliates, on the one hand, and Healthpeak OP or any member thereof, on the other. Our directors and officers have duties to our company under Maryland law in connection with their management of our company. At the same time, we, as the managing member of Healthpeak OP, have certain fiduciary duties and obligations to Healthpeak OP and its members under Maryland law and the operating agreement of Healthpeak OP in connection with the management of Healthpeak OP. Our fiduciary duties and obligations as the managing member of Healthpeak OP may come into conflict with the duties of our directors and officers to our company. Under Maryland law, a managing member of a Maryland limited liability company has fiduciary duties of loyalty and care to the limited liability company and its members and must discharge its duties and exercise its rights as managing member under the operating agreement or Maryland law consistent with the obligation of good faith and fair dealing. The operating agreement provides that, to the maximum extent permitted under the Maryland Limited Liability Company Act, the only duties that the managing member owes to Healthpeak OP, any member, or any other person, fiduciary or otherwise, are to perform its contractual obligations as expressly set forth in the operating agreement consistently with the implied contractual covenant of good faith and fair dealing. The operating agreement further provides that, in the event of a conflict between the interests of Healthpeak OP or any member, on the one hand, and the separate interests of our company or our stockholders, on the other hand, we, in our capacity as the managing member of Healthpeak OP, may give priority to the separate interests of our company or our stockholders (including with respect to tax consequences to members, assignees, or our stockholders), and, in the event of such a conflict, any action or failure to act on our part or on the part of our directors or officers that gives priority to the separate interests of our company or our stockholders that does not result in a violation of the contract rights of the members of Healthpeak OP under its operating agreement does not violate the duty of loyalty or any other duty that we, in our capacity as the managing member of Healthpeak OP, owe to Healthpeak OP and its members. 33 Additionally, the operating agreement provides that we generally will not be liable to Healthpeak OP or any member for any action or omission taken in our capacity as managing member, for the debts or liabilities of Healthpeak OP or for the obligations of Healthpeak OP under the operating agreement, except for liability for our fraud, willful misconduct, or gross negligence, pursuant to any express indemnity we may give to Healthpeak OP, or in connection with a redemption. Healthpeak OP generally must indemnify us, our directors and officers, officers of Healthpeak OP, and our designees from and against any and all claims that relate to the operations of Healthpeak OP, unless (i) an act or omission of the person was material to the matter giving rise to the action and either was committed in bad faith or was the result of active and deliberate dishonesty, (ii) in the case of a criminal proceeding, the indemnified person had reasonable cause to believe that the act or omission was unlawful, or (iii) the person actually received an improper personal benefit in money, property, or services. Healthpeak OP must also pay or reimburse the reasonable expenses of any such person in advance of a final disposition of the proceeding upon its receipt of a written affirmation of the person’s good faith belief that the standard of conduct necessary for indemnification has been met and a written undertaking to repay any amounts paid or advanced if it is ultimately determined that the person did not meet the standard of conduct for indemnification. Healthpeak OP is not required to indemnify or advance funds to any person with respect to any action initiated by the person seeking indemnification without our approval (except for any proceeding brought to enforce such person’s right to indemnification under the operating agreement) or in respect of any proceeding in which the person is found to be liable to Healthpeak OP if the proceeding was one by or in the right of Healthpeak OP. No reported decision of a Maryland appellate court has interpreted provisions similar to the provisions of the operating agreement of Healthpeak OP that modify and reduce our fiduciary duties or obligations as the managing member or reduce or eliminate our liability to Healthpeak OP and its members, and we have not obtained an opinion of counsel as to the enforceability of the provisions set forth in the operating agreement that purport to modify or reduce the fiduciary duties and obligations that would be in effect were it not for the operating agreement. Certain provisions in the operating agreement of Healthpeak OP or other agreements may delay or prevent unsolicited acquisitions of us or certain other transactions. Provisions of the operating agreement of Healthpeak OP may delay or make more difficult unsolicited acquisitions of us or changes of our control. These provisions could discourage third parties from making proposals involving an unsolicited acquisition of us or change of our control, although some of our stockholders or members of Healthpeak OP might consider such proposals, if made, desirable. These provisions include, among others: • redemption rights of qualifying parties; • a requirement that we may not be removed as the managing member of Healthpeak OP without our consent; • transfer restrictions on common units; • our ability, as managing member, in some cases, to amend the operating agreement and to cause Healthpeak OP to issue additional membership interests with terms that could delay, defer, or prevent a merger or other change of control of us or Healthpeak OP without the consent of our stockholders or the members of Healthpeak OP; and • the right of the non-managing members of Healthpeak OP to consent to certain transfers of our managing membership interest (whether by sale, disposition, statutory merger or consolidation, liquidation, or otherwise). Our charter and bylaws, the operating agreement of Healthpeak OP, and Maryland law also contain other provisions that may delay, defer, or prevent a transaction or a change of control that might involve a premium price for our common stock or that our stockholders otherwise believe to be in their best interest. In addition, provisions of certain agreements with our partners may delay or make more difficult certain other transactions, including involving issuances of common units. We are a holding company with no direct operations and, as such, we will rely on funds received from Healthpeak OP to pay liabilities, and the interests of our stockholders will be structurally subordinated to all liabilities and obligations of Healthpeak OP and its subsidiaries . We are a holding company and conduct substantially all of our operations through Healthpeak OP. We do not have, apart from an interest in Healthpeak OP, any independent operations. As a result, we rely on distributions from Healthpeak OP to continue to pay any dividends we might declare on shares of our common stock. We also rely on distributions from Healthpeak OP to meet any of our obligations, including any tax liability on taxable income allocated to us from Healthpeak OP. In addition, because we are a holding company, stockholder claims will be structurally subordinated to all existing and future liabilities and obligations (whether or not for borrowed money) of Healthpeak OP and its subsidiaries. Therefore, in the event of our bankruptcy, liquidation, or reorganization, our assets and those of Healthpeak OP and its subsidiaries will be available to satisfy the claims of our stockholders only after all of our and Healthpeak OP’s and its subsidiaries’ liabilities and obligations have been paid in full. 34 Risks Relating to the Mergers An adverse outcome in any litigation or other legal proceedings relating to the Merger Agreement, or the transactions contemplated thereby, could have a material adverse impact on our business and our ability to consummate the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement. On October 29, 2023, the Company and Physicians Realty Trust entered into the Merger Agreement with DOC DR Holdco, LLC (formerly known as Alpine Sub, LLC), a Maryland limited liability company and a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company (“DOC DR Holdco”), DOC DR, LLC (formerly known as Alpine OP Sub, LLC), a Maryland limited liability company and a wholly owned subsidiary of Healthpeak OP (“DOC DR OP Sub”), and Physicians Realty L.P. (the “Physicians Partnership”). The Merger Agreement provides for (a) the merger of Physicians Realty Trust with and into DOC DR Holdco (the “Company Merger”), with DOC DR Holdco surviving as a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company (the “Company Surviving Entity”); (b) immediately following the effectiveness of the Company Merger, the contribution by the Company to Healthpeak OP, a Maryland limited liability company, of all of the outstanding equity interests in the Company Surviving Entity (the “Contribution”); and (c) immediately following the Contribution, the merger of the Physicians Partnership with and into DOC DR OP Sub (the “Partnership Merger”), with DOC DR OP Sub surviving as a wholly owned subsidiary of Healthpeak OP (the “Partnership Surviving Entity”). Transactions like the Mergers are frequently the subject of litigation or other legal proceedings, including actions alleging that either our Board of Directors or Physicians Realty Trust’s board of trustees, as applicable, breached its respective duties to its stockholders or shareholders, respectively, or other equity holders by entering into the Merger Agreement; by failing to obtain a greater value in the transaction for the Company’s stockholders or Physicians Realty Trust’s shareholders or other equity holders; by failing to make adequate disclosures; or by otherwise failing to fulfill their fiduciary duties or statutory obligations. As discussed in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, three purported stockholders of the Company and four purported shareholders of Physicians Realty Trust have filed (and additional shareholders or stockholders, as applicable, of Physicians Realty Trust and/or the Company may file) complaints relating to the Mergers, and Physicians Realty Trust has received correspondence from multiple purported shareholders of Physicians Realty Trust relating to the Mergers. With respect to such litigation, and if additional litigation or other legal proceedings are brought against us or against our Board of Directors in connection with the Merger Agreement, or the transactions contemplated thereby, we will defend against it, but we might not be successful in doing so. An adverse outcome in such matters, as well as the costs, time, and effort of a defense, even if successful, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to consummate the Mergers or on our business, results of operations, or financial position, including through the delay of the Mergers with consequent direct and indirect costs, the possible diversion of either company’s resources, or the distraction of key personnel. The Exchange Ratio is fixed and will not be adjusted in the event of any change in the stock or share prices, respectively, of either us or Physicians Realty Trust. As a result of the Mergers, and through a series of transactions, (i) each outstanding common share of Physicians Realty Trust (other than Physicians Realty Trust common shares to be canceled in accordance with the Merger Agreement) will be converted into the right to receive 0.674 shares of Company common stock (the “Merger Consideration”), without interest, plus cash in lieu of consideration for fractional shares, but subject to any withholding required under applicable tax laws, and (ii) each Partnership OP Unit (as defined in the Merger Agreement) will be converted into common units in the Partnership Surviving Entity equal to the 0.674 Exchange Ratio. The Exchange Ratio will not be adjusted for changes in the market prices of either shares of our common stock or Physicians Realty Trust’s common shares. Changes in the market price of Physicians Realty Trust common shares prior to the effective time of the Mergers will affect the market value of the Merger Consideration that Physicians Realty Trust shareholders will receive on the closing date of the Mergers. Share price changes may result from a variety of factors (many of which are beyond our or Physicians Realty Trust’s control), including the following factors: • market reaction to the prospects of Healthpeak and its subsidiaries after the Company Merger (the “Combined Company”); • changes in the respective businesses, operations, assets, liabilities, and prospects of the Company and Physicians Realty Trust; • changes in market assessments of the business, operations, financial position, and prospects of any of the Company, Physicians Realty Trust, or the Combined Company; • market assessments of the likelihood that the Mergers will be completed; • interest rates, general market and economic conditions, and other factors generally affecting the market prices of our common stock and Physicians Realty Trust’s common shares; 35 • federal, state and local legislation, governmental regulation, and legal developments in the businesses in which we and Physicians Realty Trust operate; and • other factors beyond the control of the Company and Physicians Realty Trust, including those described or referred to in this “Risk Factors” section. The market price of Company common stock at the closing of the Mergers may vary from its price on the date the Merger Agreement was executed, on the date of the joint proxy statement/prospectus, and on the date of our special meeting. As a result, the market value of the Merger Consideration represented by the Exchange Ratio will also vary. If the market price of shares of Company common stock increases between the date the Merger Agreement was signed or the date of the special meeting and the closing of the Mergers, Physicians Realty Trust’s shareholders will receive shares of Company common stock that have a market value upon completion of the Company Merger that is greater than the market value of such shares calculated pursuant to the Exchange Ratio on the date the Merger Agreement was signed or on the date of the special meeting, respectively. Alternatively, if the market price of shares of Company common stock declines between the date the Merger Agreement was signed or the date of the special meeting and the closing of the Mergers, including for any of the reasons described above, Physicians Realty Trust’s shareholders will receive shares of Company common stock that have a market value upon completion of the Company Merger that is less than the market value of such shares calculated pursuant to the Exchange Ratio on the date the Merger Agreement was signed or on the date of the special meeting, respectively. Our stockholders will be significantly diluted by the Mergers. The Mergers will significantly dilute the ownership position of our stockholders. Upon completion of the Mergers, based on the number of shares of Company common stock and Physicians Realty Trust common shares outstanding as of December 31, 2023, it is estimated that legacy Company common stockholders will own approximately 77% of the common stock of the Combined Company, and legacy Physicians Realty Trust common shareholders will own approximately 23% of the common stock of the Combined Company. Additionally, because the Company will be issuing shares of Company common stock to certain holders of Partnership OP Unit in the Partnership Merger, each outstanding share of Company common stock after the completion of the Mergers will represent a smaller percentage of the voting power of the Company than if such shares of common stock had not been issued in the Partnership Merger. The Company may also issue additional shares of common stock or preferred stock in the future, which would create further dilution. Consequently, our stockholders, as a general matter, will have less influence over the management and policies of the Combined Company after the effective time of the Mergers than they currently exercise over the management and policies of the Company. Risks Relating to the Combined Company Following the Mergers The Combined Company expects to incur substantial expenses related to the Mergers. The Combined Company expects to incur substantial expenses in connection with completing the Mergers and integrating the operations and systems of the Company with those of Physicians Realty Trust. While the Company has assumed that a certain level of expenses would be incurred, there are a number of factors beyond its control that could affect the total amount or the timing of the Combined Company’s expenses relating to the completion of the Mergers and the integration of the Combined Company’s operations. Many of the expenses that will be incurred, by their nature, are difficult to estimate accurately at the present time. As a result, the expenses associated with the Mergers could, particularly in the near term, reduce the savings that the Combined Company expects to achieve from the elimination of duplicative expenses and the realization of economies of scale and cost savings related to the integration of the operations of the Company and Physicians Realty Trust following the completion of the Mergers. Following the Mergers, the Combined Company may be unable to integrate the operations of the Company and Physicians Realty Trust successfully and realize the anticipated synergies and other benefits of the Mergers or do so within the anticipated time frame. The Mergers involve the combination of two companies that currently operate as independent public companies and their respective operating partnerships. The Combined Company is expected to benefit from the elimination of duplicative costs associated with supporting a public company platform and the leveraging of state-of-the-art technology and systems. However, the Combined Company will be required to devote significant management attention and resources to integrating the operations of the Company and Physicians Realty Trust. Potential difficulties the Combined Company may encounter in the integration process include the following: • the inability to successfully combine the operations of the Company and Physicians Realty Trust, including the integration of employees, customer records and maintaining cybersecurity protections, in a manner that permits the Combined Company to achieve the cost savings anticipated to result from the Mergers, which would result in the anticipated benefits of the Mergers not being realized in the time frame currently anticipated or at all; 36 • the inability to dispose of assets or operations that the Combined Company desires to dispose of; • the complexities associated with managing the combined businesses out of different locations and integrating personnel from the two companies; • the failure to retain key employees of either of the two companies; • potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen increased expenses, delays, or regulatory conditions associated with the Mergers; and • performance shortfalls as a result of the diversion of management’s attention caused by completing the Mergers and integrating the companies’ operations. For all these reasons, it is possible that the integration process could result in the distraction of the Combined Company’s management, the disruption of the Combined Company’s ongoing business, or inconsistencies in the Combined Company’s operations, services, standards, controls, procedures, and policies, any of which could adversely affect the ability of the Combined Company to maintain relationships with tenants, property managers, and employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the Mergers, or could otherwise adversely affect the business and financial results of the Combined Company. Following the Mergers and the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement, the Combined Company may be unable to retain key employees. The success of the Combined Company will depend in part upon its ability to retain key Company and Physicians Realty Trust employees. Key employees may depart either before or after the Mergers because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration or separation, a desire not to remain with the Combined Company following the Mergers, or due to compensation arrangements that differ from Physicians Realty Trust employees’ current compensation arrangements with Physicians Realty Trust. Accordingly, no assurance can be given that the Company, Physicians Realty Trust or, following the Mergers and the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement, the Combined Company will be able to retain key employees to the same extent as in the past. The Mergers will result in changes to the board of directors of the Combined Company that may affect the strategy of the Combined Company as compared to that of the Company and Physicians Realty Trust individually. Following the Mergers, the composition of the board of directors of the Combined Company will change from the current boards of the Company and Physicians Realty Trust individually. Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, at the date and time the Company Merger becomes effective (the “Company Merger Effective Time”), John T. Thomas, Physicians Realty Trust’s President and Chief Executive Officer, will be appointed to, and become the Vice Chair of, the Combined Company’s board of directors and will have an active role in the Combined Company’s strategy, relationships and business development. In addition, at the Company Merger Effective Time, Governor Tommy G. Thompson, Physicians Realty Trust’s Chair of the board of trustees, and Pamela J. Kessler, Ava E. Lias-Booker and Richard A. Weiss will also be appointed to the Combined Company’s board of directors. Following the consummation of the Mergers, pursuant to an amendment to our Bylaws, our Board of Directors is expected to be increased to 13 members, with Katherine M. Sandstrom continuing as the Chair of our Board of Directors and all then-current directors of our Board of Directors continuing as members. The senior management team of the Combined Company will be comprised primarily of the current senior management team of the Company. This new composition of the board of directors, together with the management team, of the Combined Company may affect the business strategy and operating decisions of the Combined Company upon the completion of the Mergers. The future results of the Combined Company will suffer if the Combined Company does not effectively manage its operations following the Mergers and the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement. Following the Mergers, the Combined Company may continue to expand or materially alter its operations through additional acquisitions, development opportunities, dispositions, joint ventures, and other strategic or tactical transactions, some of which involve complex challenges. The future success of the Combined Company will depend, in part, upon the ability of the Combined Company to manage its expansion opportunities and operational changes, which pose substantial challenges for the Combined Company to execute in an efficient and timely manner, to successfully monitor its operations, costs, regulatory compliance and service quality, and to maintain other necessary internal controls. No assurance can be given that the Combined Company’s expansion, acquisition, disposition, or operational opportunities will be successful, or that it will realize its expected operating efficiencies, cost savings, revenue enhancements, synergies, or other benefits. 37 The trading price of shares of the Combined Company common stock following the Mergers may be affected by factors different from those affecting the price of shares of our common stock before the Mergers. The results of operations of the Combined Company, as well as the trading price of the Combined Company common stock, after the Mergers may be affected by factors different from those currently affecting our results of operations or the trading prices of our common stock. These different factors include: • a greater number of shares of the Combined Company common stock outstanding, as compared to the number of shares of our common stock currently outstanding; • different stockholders in the Combined Company; • the Combined Company managing a different portfolio of assets, including owning new assets and/or a different mix or concentration of assets; and • the Combined Company’s combined debt profile and capitalization. Accordingly, the historical trading prices and financial results of the Company and Physicians Realty Trust may not be indicative of these matters for the Combined Company after the Mergers. Counterparties to certain significant agreements with Physicians Realty Trust may exercise contractual rights under such agreements in connection with the Mergers, including in certain cases the right to acquire properties owned by Physicians Realty Trust. Physicians Realty Trust is party to certain agreements that give the counterparty certain rights following a change of control or similar event, including in some cases the right to terminate the agreement. Under some such agreements, the Mergers may constitute a change of control or cause certain other triggering events and therefore the counterparty may exercise certain rights under its agreement with Physicians Realty Trust upon the closing of the Mergers, which may include termination rights, consent or notice obligations, fees or penalties, pre-payment obligations, and/or rights of first refusal, or similar arrangements pursuant to debt arrangements, leases, management and servicing contracts, and other arrangements. Specifically, Physicians Realty Trust is party to certain ground leases with certain hospitals, health systems or other ground lessors, whereby such hospitals, health systems or other ground lessors could exercise purchase rights and rights of first offer and first refusal with respect to sales of the property subject to such ground leases. Any such counterparty may request modifications of its agreement as a condition to granting a waiver or consent under its agreement, it may exercise or seek to exercise its rights triggered by such event, including to terminate or seek to terminate its agreement with Physicians Realty Trust as a result of such change of control (if permitted to do so by the applicable agreement). There is no assurance that such counterparties will grant their consent to the Mergers under such agreements, that such counterparties will elect not to exercise their rights under such agreements, including termination rights where available, that the exercise of any such rights will not result in a material adverse effect, or that any modifications of such agreements will not result in a material adverse effect. The Combined Company’s anticipated level of indebtedness will increase upon completion of the Mergers and may increase the related risks Healthpeak currently faces. Upon completion of the Mergers, the Combined Company intends to assume and/or refinance certain indebtedness of Physicians Realty Trust and the Physicians Partnership and, assuming that occurs, the Combined Company’s consolidated indebtedness will increase substantially and it will be subject to increased risks associated with debt financing, including an increased risk that the Combined Company’s cash flow could be insufficient to meet required payments on its debt securities or other indebtedness or to pay dividends on its common stock or any preferred stock it may issue. The Combined Company’s increased indebtedness could have important consequences to holders of its common stock and its debt securities including: • increasing the Combined Company’s vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limiting the Combined Company’s ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate requirements; • requiring the use of a substantial portion of the Combined Company’s cash flow from operations for the payment of principal and interest on its indebtedness, thereby reducing its ability to use its cash flow to fund working capital, acquisitions, capital expenditures, and general corporate requirements; • limiting the Combined Company’s flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and its industry; and • putting the Combined Company at a disadvantage compared to its competitors with less indebtedness. If the Combined Company defaults under a debt instrument, it will be in default under any other debt instrument that has cross-default provisions, the holders of all such indebtedness may be entitled to demand its immediate repayment and, in the case of secured indebtedness, the Combined Company may lose any property securing that indebtedness. 38 Risks Relating to the Status of Physicians Realty Trust as a REIT We may incur adverse tax consequences if Physicians Realty Trust has failed to qualify as a REIT for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The closing of the Mergers is conditioned on the receipt by the Company of an opinion of Physicians Realty Trust’s counsel to the effect that, commencing with Physicians Realty Trust’s taxable year ended December 31, 2015 and through the Company Merger Effective Time, Physicians Realty Trust has been organized and has operated in conformity with the requirements for qualification and taxation as a REIT under the Code. The foregoing REIT opinion, however, is limited to the factual representations provided by Physicians Realty Trust to its counsel and the assumptions set forth therein, and is not a guarantee that Physicians Realty Trust has, in fact, qualified as a REIT. Moreover, such opinion is not binding on the IRS, and neither the Company nor Physicians Realty Trust has requested or plans to request a ruling from the IRS that Physicians Realty Trust qualifies as a REIT. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions for which there are only limited judicial and administrative interpretations. The complexity of these provisions and of the applicable regulations (as in effect from time to time) of the U.S. Department of the Treasury under the Code is greater in the case of a REIT, like Physicians Realty Trust, that holds assets through a partnership. If Physicians Realty Trust is determined to have lost its REIT status for a taxable year ending on or before the Company Merger, Physicians Realty Trust would be subject to adverse tax consequences similar to those described above in “Risks Related to Tax, Including REIT-Related Risks, and Related to Our Jurisdiction of Incorporation and Our Structure as an UPREIT—Loss of our tax status as a REIT would substantially reduce our available funds and would have materially adverse consequences for us and the value of our common stock” with respect to the failure of the Company to maintain its REIT status. This could substantially reduce the Combined Company’s cash available for distribution, including cash available to pay dividends to its stockholders, because, assuming that the Combined Company otherwise maintains its REIT qualification: • the Combined Company generally would be subject to corporate level federal income tax with respect to the built-in gain on each asset of Physicians Realty Trust existing at the time of the Company Merger if the Combined Company were to dispose of Physicians Realty Trust assets during the five-year period following the Company Merger, and may also be subject to corporate level state income tax on such built-in gains if the assets are disposed of during the applicable period prescribed by state law; • the Combined Company would succeed to any earnings and profits accumulated by Physicians Realty Trust for taxable periods that it did not qualify as a REIT, and the Combined Company would have to pay a special dividend and/or employ applicable deficiency dividend procedures (including interest payments to the IRS) to eliminate such earnings and profits (or if the Combined Company does not timely distribute those earnings and profits, the Combined Company could fail to qualify as a REIT); and • if Physicians Realty Trust incurred any unpaid tax liabilities prior to the Company Merger, those tax liabilities would be transferred to the Combined Company as a result of the Company Merger. If there is an adjustment to Physicians Realty Trust’s taxable income or dividends paid deductions, the Combined Company could elect to use the deficiency dividend procedure in order to maintain Physicians Realty Trust’s REIT status. That deficiency dividend procedure could require the Combined Company to make significant distributions to its stockholders and to pay significant interest to the IRS. As a result of all these factors, Physicians Realty Trust’s failure to qualify as a REIT could impair the Combined Company’s ability to expand its business and raise capital, and would materially adversely affect the value of its capital stock. Risks Relating to an Investment in the Combined Company’s Common Stock following the Mergers and the Transactions Contemplated by the Merger Agreement The market price of shares of the Combined Company common stock may decline as a result of the Mergers and the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement. The market price of shares of the Combined Company common stock may decline as a result of the Mergers and the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement if, among other things, the Combined Company does not achieve the perceived benefits of the Mergers as rapidly or to the extent anticipated by financial or industry analysts, or the effect of the Mergers on the Combined Company’s results of operations or financial condition is not consistent with the expectations of financial or industry analysts or stockholders more generally. 39 In addition, upon consummation of the Mergers and the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement, Company stockholders and Physicians Realty Trust shareholders will own interests in the Combined Company, which will operate an expanded business with a different mix of properties, risks and liabilities. Current stockholders of the Company and shareholders of Physicians Realty Trust may not wish to continue to invest in the Combined Company, or may wish to dispose of some or all of their shares of the Combined Company common stock. If, following the Company Merger Effective Time or while the Mergers are pending, large amounts of the Combined Company common stock or Company common stock, as applicable, are sold, the market price of the Combined Company common stock or Company common stock, as applicable, could decline, perhaps substantially. 40

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The information set forth in this Item 7 is intended to provide readers with an understanding of our financial condition, changes in financial condition, and results of operations. This section generally discusses the results of our operations for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the year ended December 31, 2022. For a discussion of the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021, please refer to Part II, Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022 filed with the SEC on February 8, 2023. We will discuss and provide our analysis in the following order: • Market Trends and Uncertainties • Company Highlights • Dividends • Results of Operations • Liquidity and Capital Resources • Non-GAAP Financial Measures Reconciliations • Critical Accounting Estimates • Recent Accounting Pronouncements Market Trends and Uncertainties Our operating results have been and will continue to be impacted by global and national economic and market conditions generally and by the local economic conditions where our properties are located. Rising interest rates, high inflation, supply chain disruptions, ongoing geopolitical tensions, and increased volatility in public and private equity and fixed income markets have led to increased costs and limited the availability of capital. In addition, increased interest rates have negatively affected our borrowing costs, the fair value of our fixed rate instruments. and  real estate values generally, including our real estate. Our tenants and operators have also experienced increased costs, liquidity constraints, and financing difficulties due to the foregoing macroeconomic and market conditions, which could cause them to be unable or unwilling to make payments or perform their obligations when due. We have also been affected by significant inflation in construction costs over the past few years, which, together with rising costs of capital, have negatively affected the expected yields on our development and redevelopment projects. We continuously monitor the effects of domestic and global events, including but not limited to inflation, labor shortages, supply chain matters, rising interest rates, and challenges in the financial markets, on our operations and financial position, as well as on the operations and financial position of our tenants, operators, and borrowers, to ensure that we remain responsive and adaptable to the dynamic changes in our operating environment. See “Item 1A, Risk Factors” in this report for additional discussion of the risks posed by macroeconomic conditions, as well as the uncertainties we and our tenants, operators, and borrowers may face as a result. Company Highlights As of February 10, 2023, we are structured as an UPREIT. This structure provides prospective sellers an alternative for disposing of property that has appreciated in value in a tax-deferred manner to Healthpeak OP and aligns our corporate structure with other publicly traded U.S. real estate investment trusts. Following the Reorganization, Healthpeak OP is the borrower under, and we are the guarantor of, all of the unsecured debt, which includes the Revolving Facility, Term Loan Facilities (each as defined below), commercial paper program, and senior unsecured notes. Our guarantee of the senior unsecured notes is full and unconditional and applicable to existing and future senior unsecured notes. The Reorganization did not have a material impact on our financial position, consolidated financial statements, outstanding debt securities, material debt facilities, or business operations. 49 On October 29, 2023, we entered into a Merger Agreement with Physicians Realty Trust, the Physicians Partnership, and certain of our subsidiaries, pursuant to which, among other things, and through a series of transactions (the “Mergers”), (i) each outstanding common share of Physicians Realty Trust (other than Physicians Realty Trust common shares to be canceled in accordance with the Merger Agreement) will be converted into the right to receive 0.674 (the “Exchange Ratio”) shares of our common stock, and (ii) each outstanding common unit of the Physicians Partnership will be converted into common units in the successor entity to the Physicians Partnership equal to the Exchange Ratio. In connection with the Mergers, we filed a Registration Statement on Form S-4 with the SEC on December 15, 2023, as amended on January 9, 2024, and a definitive joint proxy statement/prospectus for the Company and Physicians Realty Trust on January 11, 2024 in connection with our respective special meetings of stockholders and shareholders, as applicable, which will be held on February 21, 2024. We expect the Mergers to close on March 1, 2024. Following the transactions contemplated in the Merger Agreement, the successor entities to Physicians Realty Trust and the Physicians Partnership will be direct and indirect subsidiaries of Healthpeak OP, respectively. Consummation of the Mergers are subject to the satisfaction or waiver of customary closing conditions, including the approval of our stockholders and the shareholders of Physicians Realty Trust. Real Estate Transactions • In January 2023, we sold two lab buildings in Durham, North Carolina for $113 million . • In January 2023, we acquired a lab land parcel in Cambridge, Massachusetts for $9 million. • In March 2023, we sold two outpatient medical buildings for $32 million . • In April 2023, we acquired the remaining 80% interest in one of the outpatient medical buildings in the Ventures IV unconsolidated joint venture for $4 million. • In January 2024, we sold a 65% interest in two lab buildings in San Diego, California to a third-party for net proceeds of $128 million. Development and Redevelopment Activities • During the year ended December 31, 2023, the following projects were placed in service: (i) portions of two lab development projects with aggregate costs of $233 million, (ii) one lab development project with total costs of $171 million, (iii) a portion of one lab redevelopment project with total costs of $43 million, (iv) four outpatient medical redevelopment projects with aggregate costs of $42 million, (v) a portion of one lab redevelopment building held in one of our unconsolidated South San Francisco JVs of which our share of total project costs was $32 million, (vi) one lab redevelopment building held in one of our unconsolidated South San Francisco JVs of which our share of total project costs was $15 million, (vii) one lab redevelopment project with total costs of $14 million, and (viii) one CCRC redevelopment project with total costs of $7 million. Financing Activities • In January 2023, we completed a public offering of $400 million aggregate principal amount of 5.25% senior unsecured notes due 2032. • In May 2023, we completed a public offering of $350 million aggregate principal amount of 5.25% senior unsecured notes due 2032, which constituted an additional issuance of, and are treated as a single series with, the $400 million of senior unsecured notes due 2032 issued in January 2023. • In December 2023, a mortgage loan secured by one CCRC with a principal balance of $85 million matured and was repaid. • We have secured commitments for a $750 million five-year unsecured term loan (the “2024 Term Loan”), to be incurred as an incremental facility under our existing term loan agreement. In January 2024, we entered into forward-starting interest rate swap instruments that are designated as cash flow hedges that will effectively establish a fixed interest rate for the 2024 Term Loan at a blended contractual rate of 4.5%. Other Activities • In February 2023, we received a partial principal repayment of $102 million on one secured loan. • In February 2023, we received full repayment of the outstanding balance of one $35 million secured loan. • In April 2023, we received full repayment of the outstanding balance of one $14 million secured loan. • In May 2023, we received full repayment of two outstanding secured loans with an aggregate balance of $12 million. • In October 2023, we received full repayment of the outstanding balance of one $21 million secured loan. 50 Dividends Quarterly cash dividends paid during 2023 aggregated to $1.20 per share. On January 31, 2024, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.30 per common share. The dividend will be paid on February 26, 2024 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on February 14, 2024. Results of Operations We evaluate our business and allocate resources among our reportable business segments: (i) lab, (ii) outpatient medical, and (iii) CCRC. Under the lab and outpatient medical segments, we invest through the acquisition, development, and management of lab buildings, outpatient medical buildings, and hospitals. Our CCRCs are operated through RIDEA structures. We have other non-reportable segments that are comprised primarily of: (i) an interest in our unconsolidated SWF SH JV and (ii) loans receivable. These non-reportable segments have been presented on an aggregate basis herein. We evaluate performance based upon property adjusted net operating income (“Adjusted NOI” or “Cash NOI”) in each segment. The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in the summary of significant accounting policies in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Net Operating Income NOI and Adjusted NOI are non-U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”) supplemental financial measures used to evaluate the operating performance of real estate. NOI is defined as real estate revenues (inclusive of rental and related revenues, resident fees and services, income from direct financing leases, and government grant income and exclusive of interest income), less property level operating expenses; NOI excludes all other financial statement amounts included in net income (loss) as presented in Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Adjusted NOI is calculated as NOI after eliminating the effects of straight-line rents, DFL non-cash interest, amortization of market lease intangibles, termination fees, actuarial reserves for insurance claims that have been incurred but not reported, and the impact of deferred community fee income and expense. NOI and Adjusted NOI are calculated as NOI and Adjusted NOI from consolidated properties, plus our share of NOI and Adjusted NOI from unconsolidated joint ventures (calculated by applying our actual ownership percentage for the period), less noncontrolling interests’ share of NOI and Adjusted NOI from consolidated joint ventures (calculated by applying our actual ownership percentage for the period). Management utilizes its share of NOI and Adjusted NOI in assessing its performance as we have various joint ventures that contribute to its performance. We do not control our unconsolidated joint ventures, and our share of amounts from unconsolidated joint ventures do not represent our legal claim to such items. Our share of NOI and Adjusted NOI should not be considered a substitute for, and should only be considered together with and as a supplement to, our financial information presented in accordance with GAAP. Adjusted NOI is oftentimes referred to as “Cash NOI.” Management believes NOI and Adjusted NOI are important supplemental measures because they provide relevant and useful information by reflecting only income and operating expense items that are incurred at the property level and present them on an unlevered basis. We use NOI and Adjusted NOI to make decisions about resource allocations, to assess and compare property level performance, and to evaluate our Same-Store (“SS”) performance, as described below. We believe that net income (loss) is the most directly comparable GAAP measure to NOI and Adjusted NOI. NOI and Adjusted NOI should not be viewed as alternative measures of operating performance to net income (loss) as defined by GAAP since they do not reflect various excluded items. Further, our definitions of NOI and Adjusted NOI may not be comparable to the definitions used by other REITs or real estate companies, as they may use different methodologies for calculating NOI and Adjusted NOI. For a reconciliation of NOI and Adjusted NOI to net income (loss) by segment, refer to Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Operating expenses generally relate to leased outpatient medical and lab buildings, as well as CCRC facilities. We generally recover all or a portion of our leased outpatient medical and lab property expenses through tenant recoveries. We present expenses as operating or general and administrative based on the underlying nature of the expense. Same-Store Same-Store NOI and Adjusted (Cash) NOI information allows us to evaluate the performance of our property portfolio under a consistent population by eliminating changes in the composition of our portfolio of properties, excluding properties within the other non-reportable segments. We include properties from our consolidated portfolio, as well as properties owned by our unconsolidated joint ventures in Same-Store NOI and Adjusted NOI (see NOI definition above for further discussion regarding our use of pro-rata share information and its limitations). Same-Store NOI and Adjusted NOI exclude government grant income under the CARES Act. Same-Store Adjusted NOI also excludes amortization of deferred revenue from tenant-funded improvements and certain non-property specific operating expenses that are allocated to each operating segment on a consolidated basis. 51 Properties are included in Same-Store once they are stabilized for the full period in both comparison periods. Newly acquired operating assets are generally considered stabilized at the earlier of lease-up (typically when the tenant(s) control(s) the physical use of at least 80% of the space and rental payments have commenced) or 12 months from the acquisition date. Newly completed developments and redevelopments are considered stabilized at the earlier of lease-up or 24 months from the date the property is placed in service. Properties that experience a change in reporting structure are considered stabilized after 12 months in operations under a consistent reporting structure. A property is removed from Same-Store when it is classified as held for sale, sold, placed into redevelopment, experiences a casualty event that significantly impacts operations, a change in reporting structure or operator transition has been agreed to, or a significant tenant relocates from a Same-Store property to a non Same-Store property and that change results in a corresponding increase in revenue. We do not report Same-Store metrics for our other non-reportable segments. For a reconciliation of Same-Store to total portfolio Adjusted NOI and other relevant disclosures by segment, refer to our Segment Analysis below. Funds From Operations (“FFO”) FFO encompasses Nareit FFO and FFO as Adjusted, each of which is described in detail below. We believe FFO applicable to common shares, diluted FFO applicable to common shares, and diluted FFO per common share are important supplemental non-GAAP measures of operating performance for a REIT. Because the historical cost accounting convention used for real estate assets utilizes straight-line depreciation (except on land), such accounting presentation implies that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time. Since real estate values instead have historically risen and fallen with market conditions, presentations of operating results for a REIT that use historical cost accounting for depreciation could be less informative. The term FFO was designed by the REIT industry to address this issue. Nareit FFO .  FFO, as defined by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (“Nareit”), is net income (loss) applicable to common shares (computed in accordance with GAAP), excluding gains or losses from sales of depreciable property, including any current and deferred taxes directly associated with sales of depreciable property, impairments of, or related to, depreciable real estate, plus real estate and other real estate-related depreciation and amortization, and adjustments to compute our share of Nareit FFO and FFO as Adjusted (see below) from joint ventures. Adjustments for joint ventures are calculated to reflect our pro rata share of both our consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures. We reflect our share of Nareit FFO for unconsolidated joint ventures by applying our actual ownership percentage for the period to the applicable reconciling items on an entity by entity basis. For consolidated joint ventures in which we do not own 100%, we reflect our share of the equity by adjusting our Nareit FFO to remove the third party ownership share of the applicable reconciling items based on actual ownership percentage for the applicable periods. Our pro rata share information is prepared on a basis consistent with the comparable consolidated amounts, is intended to reflect our proportionate economic interest in the operating results of properties in our portfolio and is calculated by applying our actual ownership percentage for the period. We do not control the unconsolidated joint ventures, and the pro rata presentations of reconciling items included in Nareit FFO do not represent our legal claim to such items. The joint venture members or partners are entitled to profit or loss allocations and distributions of cash flows according to the joint venture agreements, which provide for such allocations generally according to their invested capital. The presentation of pro rata information has limitations, which include, but are not limited to, the following: (i) the amounts shown on the individual line items were derived by applying our overall economic ownership interest percentage determined when applying the equity method of accounting and do not necessarily represent our legal claim to the assets and liabilities, or the revenues and expenses and (ii) other companies in our industry may calculate their pro rata interest differently, limiting the usefulness as a comparative measure. Because of these limitations, the pro rata financial information should not be considered independently or as a substitute for our financial statements as reported under GAAP. We compensate for these limitations by relying primarily on our GAAP financial statements, using the pro rata financial information as a supplement. Nareit FFO does not represent cash generated from operating activities in accordance with GAAP, is not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund cash needs and should not be considered an alternative to net income (loss). We compute Nareit FFO in accordance with the current Nareit definition; however, other REITs may report Nareit FFO differently or have a different interpretation of the current Nareit definition from ours. 52 FFO as Adjusted .  In addition, we present Nareit FFO on an adjusted basis before the impact of non-comparable items including, but not limited to, transaction and merger-related items, other impairments (recoveries) and other losses (gains), restructuring and severance-related charges, prepayment costs (benefits) associated with early retirement or payment of debt, litigation costs (recoveries), casualty-related charges (recoveries), deferred tax asset valuation allowances, and changes in tax legislation (“FFO as Adjusted”). These adjustments are net of tax, when applicable. Transaction and merger-related items include transaction expenses and gains/charges incurred as a result of mergers and acquisitions and lease amendment or termination activities. Prepayment costs (benefits) associated with early retirement of debt include the write-off of unamortized deferred financing fees, or additional costs, expenses, discounts, make-whole payments, penalties or premiums incurred as a result of early retirement or payment of debt. Other impairments (recoveries) and other losses (gains) include interest income associated with early and partial repayments of loans receivable and other losses or gains associated with non-depreciable assets including goodwill, DFLs, undeveloped land parcels, and loans receivable. Management believes that FFO as Adjusted provides a meaningful supplemental measurement of our FFO run-rate and is frequently used by analysts, investors, and other interested parties in the evaluation of our performance as a REIT. At the same time that Nareit created and defined its FFO measure for the REIT industry, it also recognized that “management of each of its member companies has the responsibility and authority to publish financial information that it regards as useful to the financial community.” We believe stockholders, potential investors, and financial analysts who review our operating performance are best served by an FFO run-rate earnings measure that includes certain other adjustments to net income (loss), in addition to adjustments made to arrive at the Nareit defined measure of FFO. FFO as Adjusted is used by management in analyzing our business and the performance of our properties and we believe it is important that stockholders, potential investors, and financial analysts understand this measure used by management. We use FFO as Adjusted to: (i) evaluate our performance in comparison with expected results and results of previous periods, relative to resource allocation decisions, (ii) evaluate the performance of our management, (iii) budget and forecast future results to assist in the allocation of resources, (iv) assess our performance as compared with similar real estate companies and the industry in general, and (v) evaluate how a specific potential investment will impact our future results. Other REITs or real estate companies may use different methodologies for calculating an adjusted FFO measure, and accordingly, our FFO as Adjusted may not be comparable to those reported by other REITs. For a reconciliation of net income (loss) to Nareit FFO and FFO as Adjusted and other relevant disclosure, refer to “Non-GAAP Financial Measures Reconciliations” below. Adjusted FFO (“AFFO”). AFFO is defined as FFO as Adjusted after excluding the impact of the following: (i) stock-based compensation amortization expense, (ii) amortization of deferred financing costs, net, (iii) straight-line rents, (iv) deferred income taxes, (v) amortization of above (below) market lease intangibles, net, and (vi) other AFFO adjustments, which include: (a) non-cash interest related to DFLs and lease incentive amortization (reduction of straight-line rents), (b) actuarial reserves for insurance claims that have been incurred but not reported, and (c) amortization of deferred revenues, excluding amounts amortized into rental income that are associated with tenant funded improvements owned/recognized by us and up-front cash payments made by tenants to reduce their contractual rents. Also, AFFO is computed after deducting recurring capital expenditures, including second generation leasing costs and second generation tenant and capital improvements, and includes adjustments to compute our share of AFFO from our unconsolidated joint ventures. More specifically, recurring capital expenditures, including second generation leasing costs and second generation tenant and capital improvements (“AFFO capital expenditures”) excludes our share from unconsolidated joint ventures (reported in “other AFFO adjustments”). Adjustments for joint ventures are calculated to reflect our pro rata share of both our consolidated and unconsolidated joint ventures. We reflect our share of AFFO for unconsolidated joint ventures by applying our actual ownership percentage for the period to the applicable reconciling items on an entity by entity basis. We reflect our share for consolidated joint ventures in which we do not own 100% of the equity by adjusting our AFFO to remove the third party ownership share of the applicable reconciling items based on actual ownership percentage for the applicable periods (reported in “other AFFO adjustments”). See FFO for further disclosure regarding our use of pro rata share information and its limitations. We believe AFFO is an alternative run-rate earnings measure that improves the understanding of our operating results among investors and makes comparisons with: (i) expected results, (ii) results of previous periods, and (iii) results among REITs more meaningful. AFFO does not represent cash generated from operating activities determined in accordance with GAAP and is not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund cash needs as it excludes the following items which generally flow through our cash flows from operating activities: (i) adjustments for changes in working capital or the actual timing of the payment of income or expense items that are accrued in the period, (ii) transaction-related costs, (iii) litigation settlement expenses, and (iv) restructuring and severance-related charges. Furthermore, AFFO is adjusted for recurring capital expenditures, which are generally not considered when determining cash flows from operations or liquidity. Other REITs or real estate companies may use different methodologies for calculating AFFO, and accordingly, our AFFO may not be comparable to those reported by other REITs. Management believes AFFO provides a meaningful supplemental measure of our performance and is frequently used by analysts, investors, and other interested parties in the evaluation of our performance as a REIT, and by presenting AFFO, we are assisting these parties in their evaluation. AFFO is a non-GAAP supplemental financial measure and should not be considered as an alternative to net income (loss) determined in accordance with GAAP and should only be considered together with and as a supplement to our financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. For a reconciliation of net income (loss) to AFFO and other relevant disclosures, refer to “Non-GAAP Financial Measures Reconciliations” below. 53 Comparison of the Year Ended December 31, 2023 to the Year Ended December 31, 2022 Overview 2023 and 2022 (1) The following table summarizes results for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 (in thousands): _______________________________________ (1) For the reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measures, see “Non-GAAP Financial Measure Reconciliations” below. Net income (loss) applicable to common shares decreased primarily as a result of the following: • a gain upon change of control related to the sale of a 30% interest and deconsolidation of seven previously consolidated lab buildings in South San Francisco, California during the third quarter of 2022; • an increase in depreciation, primarily as a result of development and redevelopment projects placed in service during 2022 and 2023; • an increase in interest expense, primarily as a result of: (i) senior unsecured notes issued during the first half of 2023, (ii) borrowings under the Term Loan Facilities, which were drawn during the fourth quarter of 2022, and (iii) higher interest rates on the commercial paper program, partially offset by lower borrowings on the commercial paper program; • a gain on sale associated with the disposition of a hospital under a DFL during the first quarter of 2022; • an increase in transaction and merger-related costs, primarily as a result of costs related to the Mergers, which are primarily comprised of legal, accounting, tax, and other costs that were incurred during the fourth quarter of 2023; and • a decrease in government grant income received under the CARES Act in 2023. The decrease in net income (loss) applicable to common shares was partially offset by: • an increase in NOI generated from our lab and outpatient medical segments related to: (i) development and redevelopment projects placed in service during 2022 and 2023, (ii) new leasing activity during 2022 and 2023 (including the impact to straight-line rents), and (iii) 2022 acquisitions of real estate; • an increase in gains on sale of depreciable real estate related to lab and outpatient medical building sales during 2023 as compared to 2022; • a decrease in general and administrative expenses, primarily as a result of: (i) severance-related charges associated with the departures of our former Chief Executive Officer and our former Chief Legal Officer and General Counsel in the fourth quarter of 2022 and (ii) charges incurred in connection with the downsizing of our corporate headquarters in Denver, Colorado in the fourth quarter of 2022; • a decrease in depreciation related to the deconsolidation of seven previously consolidated lab buildings in South San Francisco, California during the third quarter of 2022; • a decrease in other expenses for tenant relocation and other costs associated with the demolition of an outpatient medical building, which were incurred in the first quarter of 2022; • an increase in income tax benefit primarily as a result of a $14 million tax benefit recognized in connection with the reversal of a deferred tax asset valuation allowance during the fourth quarter of 2023; • a decrease in loan loss reserves primarily as a result of principal repayments on seller financing; • an increase in equity income from unconsolidated joint ventures; and • a decrease in casualty-related charges from a hurricane during the third quarter of 2022. 54 Nareit FFO increased primarily as a result of the aforementioned events impacting net income (loss) applicable to common shares, except for the following, which are excluded from Nareit FFO: • gain upon change of control; • gain on sales of depreciable real estate; and • depreciation and amortization expense. FFO as Adjusted increased primarily as a result of the aforementioned events impacting Nareit FFO, except for the following, which are excluded from FFO as Adjusted: • severance-related charges; • gain on sale of a hospital under a DFL; • reversal of a valuation allowance on deferred tax assets; • expenses for tenant relocation and other costs associated with the demolition of an outpatient medical building; • loan loss reserves; • transaction and merger-related costs; • casualty-related charges; and • the charges incurred in connection with the downsizing of our corporate headquarters in Denver, Colorado. AFFO increased primarily as a result of the aforementioned events impacting FFO as Adjusted, except for the impact of straight-line rents, which is excluded from AFFO and higher AFFO capital expenditures during the period. Segment Analysis The following tables provide selected operating information for our Same-Store and total property portfolio for each of our reportable segments. For the year ended December 31, 2023, our Same-Store consists of 403 properties representing properties acquired or placed in service and stabilized on or prior to January 1, 2022 and that remained in operations through December 31, 2023. Our total property portfolio consisted of 477 and 480 properties at December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Included in our total property portfolio at each of December 31, 2023 and 2022 are 19 senior housing assets in our SWF SH JV. 55 Lab The following table summarizes results at and for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 (dollars and square feet in thousands, except per square foot data): _______________________________________ (1) Total Portfolio includes results of operations from disposed properties through the disposition date. (2) Represents adjustments to NOI in accordance with our definition of Adjusted NOI. Refer to “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” above for the definitions of NOI and Adjusted NOI. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a reconciliation of Adjusted NOI by segment to net income (loss). (3) From our 2022 presentation of Same-Store, we added: (i) five stabilized acquisitions, (ii) three stabilized buildings that previously experienced a significant tenant relocation, (iii) two stabilized redevelopments placed in service, and (iv) one stabilized development placed in service, and we removed: (i) six buildings that were placed into redevelopment, (ii) one asset that was placed into land held for development, and (iii) one building that experienced a significant tenant relocation. (4) Refer to “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” above for the definition of Same-Store. Total Portfolio occupancy excludes any of the following: (i) developments, (ii) significant redevelopments, (iii) newly completed properties under lease-up, and (iv) properties held for sale. (5) Average annual total revenues does not include non-cash revenue adjustments (i.e., straight-line rents, amortization of market lease intangibles, and deferred revenues). (6) Base rent does not include tenant recoveries, additional rents in excess of floors, and non-cash revenue adjustments (i.e., straight-line rents, amortization of market lease intangibles, and deferred revenues). Same-Store Adjusted NOI increased primarily as a result of the following: • annual rent escalations; and • new leasing activity; partially offset by • lower occupancy; and • higher operating expenses. Total Portfolio Adjusted NOI increased primarily as a result of the aforementioned impacts to Same-Store and the following Non-Same-Store impacts: • increased NOI from developments and redevelopments placed in service in 2022 and 2023; partially offset by • decreased NOI from our 2022 and 2023 dispositions. 56 Outpatient Medical The following table summarizes results at and for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 (dollars and square feet in thousands, except per square foot data): _______________________________________ (1) Total Portfolio includes results of operations from disposed properties through the disposition date. (2) Represents adjustments to NOI in accordance with our definition of Adjusted NOI. Refer to “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” above for the definitions of NOI and Adjusted NOI. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a reconciliation of Adjusted NOI by segment to net income (loss). (3) From our 2022 presentation of Same-Store, we added: (i) 25 stabilized acquisitions and (ii) 2 stabilized developments placed in service, and we removed: (i) 2 assets that were sold and (ii) 1 asset that was classified as held for sale. (4) Refer to “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” above for the definition of Same-Store. Total Portfolio occupancy excludes any of the following: (i) developments, (ii) significant redevelopments, (iii) newly completed properties under lease-up, and (iv) properties held for sale. (5) Average annual total revenues does not include non-cash revenue adjustments (i.e., straight-line rents, amortization of market lease intangibles, DFL non-cash interest, and deferred revenues). (6) Base rent does not include tenant recoveries, additional rents in excess of floors, and non-cash revenue adjustments (i.e., straight-line rents, amortization of market lease intangibles, DFL non-cash interest, and deferred revenues). Same-Store Adjusted NOI increased primarily as a result of the following: • mark-to-market lease renewals; and • annual rent escalations; partially offset by • higher operating expenses. Total Portfolio Adjusted NOI increased primarily as a result of the aforementioned increases to Same-Store and the following Non-Same-Store impacts: • increased NOI from our 2022 acquisitions; • business interruption proceeds related to a demolished asset; and • increased occupancy in former redevelopment and development properties that have been placed in service; partially offset by • decreased NOI from our 2022 and 2023 dispositions. 57 Continuing Care Retirement Community The following table summarizes results at and for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 (dollars in thousands, except per unit data): _______________________________________ (1) Represents government grant income received under the CARES Act, which is recorded in other income (expense), net in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. (2) Represents adjustments to NOI in accordance with our definition of Adjusted NOI. Refer to “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” above for the definitions of NOI and Adjusted NOI. See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a reconciliation of Adjusted NOI by segment to net income (loss). (3) From our 2022 presentation of Same-Store, no properties were added or removed. (4) Refer to “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” above for the definition of Same-Store. Total Portfolio occupancy excludes any of the following: (i) developments, (ii) significant redevelopments, (iii) newly completed properties under lease-up, and (iv) properties held for sale. (5) Represents average occupied units as reported by the operators for the twelve-month period. Same-Store Adjusted NOI increased primarily as a result of the following: • increased rates for resident fees; and • higher occupancy; partially offset by • higher costs of labor, management fees, insurance, real estate taxes, utilities, and food; and • lower business interruption insurance proceeds. Total Portfolio Adjusted NOI increased primarily as a result of the aforementioned increases to Same-Store, partially offset by decreased government grant income received under the CARES Act. 58 Other Income and Expense Items The following table summarizes the results of our other income and expense items for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 (in thousands): Interest income Interest income decreased for the year ended December 31, 2023 primarily as a result of principal repayments on loans receivable in 2022 and 2023, partially offset by higher interest rates. Interest expense Interest expense increased for the year ended December 31, 2023 primarily as a result of: (i) senior unsecured notes issued during the first half of 2023, (ii) borrowings under the Term Loan Facilities, which were drawn during the fourth quarter of 2022, and (iii) higher interest rates on the commercial paper program, partially offset by lower borrowings on the commercial paper program. Depreciation and amortization Depreciation and amortization expense increased for the year ended December 31, 2023 primarily as a result of development and redevelopment projects placed in service during 2022 and 2023, partially offset by: (i) assets placed into redevelopment in 2023, (ii) dispositions of real estate in 2022 and 2023, and (iii) lower depreciation related to the deconsolidation of seven previously consolidated lab buildings in South San Francisco, California during the third quarter of 2022. General and administrative General and administrative expenses decreased for the year ended December 31, 2023 primarily as a result of: (i) severance-related charges associated with the departures of our former Chief Executive Officer and our former Chief Legal Officer and General Counsel in the fourth quarter of 2022 and (ii) charges incurred in connection with the downsizing of our corporate headquarters in Denver, Colorado in the fourth quarter of 2022. Transaction and merger-related costs Transaction and merger-related costs increased for the year ended December 31, 2023 primarily as a result of costs related to the Mergers, which are primarily comprised of legal, accounting, tax, and other costs that were incurred during the fourth quarter of 2023 (see Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). Impairments and loan loss reserves (recoveries), net Impairments and loan loss reserves (recoveries), net decreased for the year ended December 31, 2023 as a result of a decrease in loan loss reserves under the current expected credit losses model. The change in loan loss reserves for the year ended December 31, 2023 is primarily a result of: (i) principal repayments on seller financing, (ii) increased interest rates on variable rate loans, and (iii) macroeconomic conditions. 59 Gain (loss) on sales of real estate, net Gain on sales of real estate, net increased during the year ended December 31, 2023 primarily as a result of: (i) the $60 million gain on sales of two lab buildings in Durham, North Carolina, which were sold during the three months ended March 31, 2023 and (ii) the $21 million gain on sales of two outpatient medical buildings, which were sold during the three months ended March 31, 2023, partially offset by: (i) the $4 million gain on sale of one lab building, which was sold during the three months ended March 31, 2022, (ii) the $10 million gain on sales of three outpatient medical buildings and one outpatient medical land parcel, which were sold during the three months ended June 30, 2022, and (iii) the $1 million gain on sales of two outpatient medical buildings, which were sold during the three months ended September 30, 2022. Refer to Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding dispositions of real estate and the associated gain (loss) on sales recognized. Other income (expense), net Other income, net decreased for the year ended December 31, 2023 primarily as a result of: (i) a gain upon change of control related to the sale of a 30% interest and deconsolidation of seven previously consolidated lab buildings in South San Francisco, California during the third quarter of 2022, (ii) a gain on sale associated with the disposition of a hospital under a DFL during the first quarter of 2022, and (iii) a decrease in government grant income received under the CARES Act in 2023. The decrease in other income, net during the year ended December 31, 2023 was partially offset by: (i) other expenses for tenant relocation and other costs associated with the demolition of an outpatient medical building, which were incurred in the first quarter of 2022 and (ii) casualty losses from a hurricane in the third quarter of 2022. Income tax benefit (expense) Income tax benefit increased for the year ended December 31, 2023 primarily as a result of a $14 million tax benefit recognized in connection with the reversal of a deferred tax asset valuation allowance during the fourth quarter of 2023 (see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements), partially offset by an increase in operating income associated with our CCRCs. Equity income (loss) from unconsolidated joint ventures Equity income from unconsolidated joint ventures increased for the year ended December 31, 2023 primarily as a result of increased income from the South San Francisco JVs and the SWF SH JV. Income (loss) from discontinued operations Income from discontinued operations decreased for the year ended December 31, 2023 a result of the completion of dispositions of our senior housing portfolios. Noncontrolling interests’ share in continuing operations Noncontrolling interests’ share in continuing operations increased for the year ended December 31, 2023 primarily as a result of a gain on sale of an outpatient medical building in a consolidated joint venture that was sold during the second quarter of 2023. Liquidity and Capital Resources We anticipate that our cash flow from operations, available cash balances, and cash from our various financing activities will be adequate for the next 12 months and for the foreseeable future for purposes of: (i) costs incurred to consummate the Mergers and the other transactions contemplated in the Merger Agreement; (ii) funding recurring operating expenses; (iii) meeting debt service requirements; and (iv) satisfying funding of distributions to our stockholders and non-controlling interest members. Distributions are made using a combination of cash flows from operations, funds available under our bank line of credit (the “Revolving Facility”) and commercial paper program, proceeds from the sale of properties, and other sources of cash available to us. In addition to funding the activities above, our principal liquidity needs for the next 12 months are to: • fund capital expenditures, including tenant improvements and leasing costs; and • fund future acquisition, transactional, and development and redevelopment activities. Our longer term liquidity needs include the items listed above as well as meeting debt service requirements. We anticipate satisfying these future needs using one or more of the following: • cash flow from operations; • sale of, or exchange of ownership interests in, properties or other investments; • borrowings under our Revolving Facility and commercial paper program; 60 • issuance of additional debt, including unsecured notes, term loans, and mortgage debt; and/or • issuance of common or preferred stock or its equivalent, including sales of common stock under the ATM Program (as defined below). Our ability to access the capital markets impacts our cost of capital and ability to refinance maturing indebtedness, as well as our ability to fund future acquisitions and development through the issuance of additional securities or secured debt. Credit ratings impact our ability to access capital and directly impact our cost of capital as well. Our two senior unsecured delayed draw term loans with an aggregate principal amount of $500 million (the “Term Loan Facilities”) and our Revolving Facility accrue interest at the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (“SOFR”) plus a margin that depends on the credit ratings of our senior unsecured long-term debt. We also pay a facility fee on the entire commitment under our Revolving Facility that depends upon our credit ratings. As of February 7, 2024, we had long-term credit ratings of Baa1 from Moody’s and BBB+ from S&P Global, and short-term credit ratings of P-2 from Moody’s and A-2 from S&P Global. A downgrade in credit ratings by Moody’s or S&P Global may have a negative impact on the interest rates of our Revolving Facility and Term Loan Facilities and facility fees for our Revolving Facility, and may negatively impact the pricing of notes issued under our commercial paper program and senior unsecured notes. While a downgrade in our credit ratings would adversely impact our cost of borrowing, we believe we would continue to have access to the unsecured debt markets, and we could also seek to enter into one or more secured debt financings, issue additional securities, including under our ATM Program, or dispose of certain assets to fund future operating costs, capital expenditures, or acquisitions, although no assurances can be made in this regard. Refer to “Market Trends and Uncertainties” above for a more comprehensive discussion of the potential impact of economic and market conditions on our business. Material Cash Requirements Our material cash requirements include the below contractual and other obligations. Debt. As of December 31, 2023, we had total debt of $6.9 billion, including borrowings under our Revolving Facility and commercial paper program, senior unsecured notes, term loans, and mortgage debt. Of our total debt, the total amount payable within twelve months is comprised of $7 million of mortgage debt. Future interest payments associated with borrowings under our Revolving Facility, senior unsecured notes, term loans, and mortgage debt total $1.4 billion, $220 million of which are payable within twelve months. Future interest payments associated with commercial paper borrowings payable within the next twelve months total $21 million, assuming no change in interest rates and borrowings remain outstanding for the next twelve months. Commercial paper borrowings are backstopped by our Revolving Facility. As such, we calculate the weighted average remaining term of our commercial paper borrowings using the maturity date of our Revolving Facility. Additionally, we have secured commitments for the 2024 Term Loan, to be incurred as an incremental facility under our existing term loan agreement. In January 2024, we entered into forward-starting interest rate swap instruments that are designated as cash flow hedges that will effectively establish a fixed interest rate for the 2024 Term Loan at a blended contractual rate of 4.5%. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about our debt commitments. Development and redevelopment commitments. Our development and redevelopment commitments represent construction and other commitments for development and redevelopment projects in progress and includes certain allowances for Company-owned tenant improvements that we have provided as a lessor. As of December 31, 2023, we had $152 million of development and redevelopment commitments, $135 million of which we expect to spend within the next twelve months. Lease and other contractual commitments. Our lease and other contractual commitments represent our commitments, as lessor, under signed leases and contracts for operating properties and include allowances for Company-owned tenant improvements and leasing commissions. These commitments exclude allowances for Company-owned tenant improvements related to developments and redevelopments in progress for which we have executed an agreement with a general contractor to complete the tenant improvements, which are recognized as development and redevelopment commitments and are discussed further above. As of December 31, 2023, we had total lease and other contractual commitments of $28 million, $26 million of which we expect to spend within the next twelve months. Construction loan commitments. Due to the terms of our SHOP seller financing notes receivable, as of December 31, 2023, we are obligated to provide additional loans up to $29 million to fund senior housing redevelopment capital expenditure projects, which extend through 2024. See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Ground and other operating lease commitments. Our ground and other operating lease commitments represent our commitments as lessee under signed operating leases. As of December 31, 2023, we had total ground and other operating lease commitments of $542 million, $17 million of which are payable within twelve months. See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 61 Redeemable noncontrolling interests. Certain of our noncontrolling interest holders have the ability to put their equity interests to us upon specified events or after the passage of a predetermined period of time. Each put option is subject to changes in redemption value in the event that the underlying property generates specified returns for us and meets certain promote thresholds pursuant to the respective agreements. As of December 31, 2023, three of the redeemable noncontrolling interests have met the conditions for redemption, but were not yet exercised. As of December 31, 2023, the redemption value of our redeemable noncontrolling interests was $49 million. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Success-Based Fees. We have engaged service providers, including investment banks and advisors, to help us negotiate the terms of the Mergers and to advise us on other merger-related matters. In connection with these services, we expect to be required to pay success-based fees to the extent that certain conditions, including the closing of the Mergers, are met. As of December 31, 2023, we expect to incur approximately $22 million of such success fees upon closing of the Mergers during the first quarter of 2024. As closing of the Mergers has not occurred, no such amounts have been paid or accrued through December 31, 2023. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Distribution and Dividend Requirements. Our dividend policy on our common stock is to distribute a percentage of our cash flow to ensure that we meet the dividend requirements of the Code, relative to maintaining our REIT status, while still allowing us to retain cash to fund capital improvements and other investment activities. Under the Code, REITs may be subject to certain federal income and excise taxes on undistributed taxable income. We paid quarterly cash dividends of $0.30 per common share in 2023. Our future common dividends, if and as declared, may vary and will be determined by the Board based upon the circumstances prevailing at the time, including our financial condition. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We own interests in certain unconsolidated joint ventures as described in Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Two of these joint ventures have aggregate mortgage debt of $88 million, of which our share is $40 million. Except in limited circumstances, our risk of loss is limited to our investment in the applicable joint venture. We have no other material off-balance sheet arrangements that we expect would materially affect our liquidity and capital resources. Inflation A significant portion of our revenues are derived from leases that generally provide for fixed rental rates, subject to annual escalations. A period of high inflation could result in increases in the Consumer Price Index in excess of our fixed annual escalations. Certain of our leases provide that annual rent is modified based on changes in the Consumer Price Index or other thresholds. Most of our outpatient medical leases require the tenant to pay a share of property operating costs such as real estate taxes, insurance, and utilities. Substantially all of our lab leases require the tenant or operator to pay all of the property operating costs or reimburse us for all such costs. Labor costs, costs of construction materials, interest, utilities, and other operating costs may increase during periods of inflation. Inflationary increases in expenses will generally be offset, in whole or in part, by the tenant expense reimbursements and contractual rent increases described above. 62 Cash Flow Summary The following summary discussion of our cash flows is based on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows and is not meant to be an all-inclusive discussion of the changes in our cash flows for the periods presented below. The following table sets forth changes in cash flows (in thousands): Operating Cash Flows Our cash flows from operations are dependent upon the occupancy levels of our buildings, rental rates on leases, our tenants’ performance on their lease obligations, the level of operating expenses, and other factors. Our net cash provided by operating activities increased $56 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily as a result of: (i) developments and redevelopments placed in service during 2022 and 2023, (ii) annual rent increases, (iii) higher nonrefundable entrance fee collections, and (iv) new leasing and renewal activity. The increase in net cash provided by operating activities was partially offset by: (i) an increase in interest expense and (ii) an increase in property operating expenses. Investing Cash Flows Our cash flows from investing activities are generally used to fund acquisitions, developments, and redevelopments of real estate, net of proceeds received from sales of real estate, sales of DFLs, and repayments on loans receivable. Our net cash used in investing activities decreased $300 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily as a result of the following: (i) a reduction in acquisitions of real estate, (ii) a reduction in development and redevelopment of real estate, (iii) an increase in proceeds from the sales of real estate, (iv) an increase in proceeds from principal repayments on loans receivable and marketable debt securities, and (v) an increase in proceeds from insurance recoveries. The decrease in cash used in investing activities was partially offset by: (i) proceeds received in 2022 from the sale of a 30% interest in seven previously consolidated lab buildings in South San Francisco, California and (ii) higher investments in unconsolidated joint ventures related to the funding of redevelopment projects. Financing Cash Flows Our cash flows from financing activities are generally impacted by issuances of equity, borrowings and repayments under our bank line of credit and commercial paper program, senior unsecured notes, term loans, and mortgage debt, net of dividends paid to common shareholders. Our net cash used in financing activities increased $221 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily as a result of the following: (i) issuance of the the Term Loan Facilities in 2022, (ii) settlement of contracts under our ATM Program in 2022, (iii) higher net repayments under the commercial paper program, (iv) higher repayments of mortgage debt, and (v) increased distributions to noncontrolling interests. The increase in net cash used in financing activities was partially offset by: (i) proceeds received from the senior unsecured notes issuances in January 2023 and May 2023 and (ii) a reduction in repurchases of common stock. Discontinued Operations Operating, investing, and financing cash flows in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows are reported inclusive of both cash flows from continuing operations and cash flows from discontinued operations. Certain significant cash flows from discontinued operations are disclosed in Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Debt In January 2023 and May 2023, we completed public offerings of $750 million aggregate principal amount of 5.25% senior unsecured notes due 2032. In February 2023, the Revolving Facility was amended to change the interest rate benchmark from LIBOR to SOFR. Also in February 2023, the agreements associated with $142 million of variable rate mortgage debt were amended to change the interest rate benchmarks from LIBOR to SOFR, effective March 2023. Concurrently, we modified the related interest rate swap instruments to reflect the change in the interest rate benchmarks from LIBOR to SOFR. 63 We have secured commitments for the 2024 Term Loan, to be incurred as an incremental facility under our existing term loan agreement. In January 2024, we entered into forward-starting interest rate swap instruments that are designated as cash flow hedges that will effectively establish a fixed interest rate for the 2024 Term Loan at a blended contractual rate of 4.5%. In addition to the 2024 Term Loan, we anticipate that our principal indebtedness will increase due to debt assumed in connection with the Mergers. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about our outstanding debt. Approximately 90% and 85% of our consolidated debt was fixed rate debt as of December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. At December 31, 2023, our fixed rate debt and variable rate debt had weighted average interest rates of 3.70% and 5.72%, respectively. At December 31, 2022, our fixed rate debt and variable rate debt had weighted average interest rates of 3.46% and 4.91%, respectively. As of December 31, 2023, we had $142 million of variable rate mortgage debt and the $500 million Term Loan Facilities swapped to fixed rates through interest rate swap instruments. These interest rate swap instruments are designated as cash flow hedges. For purposes of classification of the amounts above, variable rate debt with a derivative financial instrument designated as a cash flow hedge is reported as fixed rate debt due to us having effectively established a fixed interest rate for the underlying debt instrument. For a more detailed discussion of our interest rate risk, see “Item 7A, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk” below. Supplemental Guarantor Information Healthpeak OP has issued the senior unsecured notes described in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The obligations of Healthpeak OP to pay principal, premiums, if any, and interest on such senior unsecured notes are guaranteed on a full and unconditional basis by the Company. Subsidiary issuers of obligations guaranteed by the parent are not required to provide separate financial statements, provided that the parent guarantee is “full and unconditional”, the subsidiary obligor is a consolidated subsidiary of the parent company, the guaranteed security is debt or debt-like, and consolidated financial statements of the parent company have been filed. Accordingly, separate consolidated financial statements of Healthpeak OP have not been presented. As permitted under Rule 13-01 of Regulation S-X, we have excluded the summarized financial information for the operating subsidiary because the Company and Healthpeak OP have no material assets, liabilities, or operations other than debt financing activities and their investments in non-guarantor subsidiaries, and management believes such summarized financial information would be repetitive and would not provide incremental value to investors. Equity At December 31, 2023, we had 547 million shares of common stock outstanding, equity totaled $6.9 billion, and our equity securities had a market value of $11.0 billion. The Merger Agreement Pursuant to the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement, each outstanding share of Physicians Realty Trust will be converted into the right to receive 0.674 shares of our common stock when the Mergers are consummated. Based on the number of outstanding Physicians Realty Trust common shares as of January 8, 2024 (the record date for the special meetings of stockholders), we expect to issue approximately 163 million shares of our common stock when the Mergers are consummated. At-The-Market Program In February 2023, in connection with the Reorganization, we terminated our previous at-the-market equity offering program and established a new at-the-market equity offering program (the “ATM Program”) that allows for the sale of shares of common stock having an aggregate gross sales price of up to $1.5 billion. In addition to the issuance and sale of shares of our common stock, we may also enter into one or more forward sales agreements (each, an “ATM forward contract”) with sales agents for the sale of our shares of common stock under our ATM Program. During the year ended December 31, 2023 , we did not issue any shares of our common stock under any ATM program. At December 31, 2023, $1.5 billion of our common stock remained available for sale under the ATM Program. Actual future sales of our common stock will depend upon a variety of factors, including but not limited to market conditions, the trading price of our common stock, and our capital needs. We have no obligation to sell any shares under our ATM Program. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about our ATM Program. 64 Noncontrolling Interests Healthpeak OP .  Immediately following the Reorganization, Healthpeak Properties, Inc. was the initial sole member and 100% owner of Healthpeak OP. Subsequent to the Reorganization, certain of our employees (“OP Unitholders”) were issued approximately 2 million noncontrolling, non-managing member units in Healthpeak OP (“OP Units”), all of which were LTIP Units (see Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). When certain conditions are met, the OP Unitholders have the right to require redemption of part or all of their OP Units for cash or shares of our common stock, at our option as managing member of Healthpeak OP. The per unit redemption amount is equal to either one share of our common stock or cash equal to the fair value of a share of common stock at the time of redemption. We classify the OP Units in permanent equity because we may elect, in our sole discretion, to issue shares of our common stock to OP Unitholders who choose to redeem their OP Units rather than using cash. None of the outstanding OP Units met the criteria for redemption as of December 31, 2023. DownREITs. At December 31, 2023, non-managing members held an aggregate of approximately 5 million units in seven limited liability companies (“DownREITs”) for which we are the managing member. The DownREIT units are exchangeable for an amount of cash approximating the then-current market value of shares of our common stock or, at our option, shares of our common stock (subject to certain adjustments, such as stock splits and reclassifications). At December 31, 2023, the outstanding DownREIT units were convertible into approximately 7 million shares of our common stock. Share Repurchase Program On August 1, 2022, our Board of Directors approved the Share Repurchase Program under which we may acquire shares of our common stock in the open market up to an aggregate purchase price of $500 million. Purchases of common stock under the Share Repurchase Program may be exercised at our discretion with the timing and number of shares repurchased depending on a variety of factors, including price, corporate and regulatory requirements, and other corporate liquidity requirements and priorities. The Share Repurchase Program expires in August 2024 and may be suspended or terminated at any time without prior notice. During the year ended December 31, 2022, we repurchased 2.1 million shares of our common stock at a weighted average price of $27.16 per share for a total of $56 million. During the year ended December 31, 2023, there were no repurchases under the Share Repurchase Program. Therefore, at December 31, 2023, $444 million of our common stock remained available for repurchase under the Share Repurchase Program. Shelf Registration In February 2024, the Company and Healthpeak OP jointly filed a prospectus with the SEC as part of a registration statement on Form S-3, using an automatic shelf registration process. This shelf registration statement expires on February 8, 2027 and at or prior to such time, we expect to file a new shelf registration statement. Under the “shelf” process, we may sell any combination of the securities described in the prospectus through one or more offerings. The securities described in the prospectus include future offerings of (i) the Company’s common stock, preferred stock, depositary shares, warrants, debt securities, and guarantees by the Company of debt securities issued by Healthpeak OP and/or by the Company’s existing and future subsidiaries, and (ii) Healthpeak OP’s debt securities and guarantees by Healthpeak OP of debt securities issued by the Company and/or by Healthpeak OP’s existing and future subsidiaries. 65 Non-GAAP Financial Measures Reconciliations The following is a reconciliation from net income (loss) applicable to common shares, the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP, to Nareit FFO, FFO as Adjusted, and AFFO (in thousands): Refer to footnotes on the next page. 66 ________________________________ (1) This amount can be reconciled by combining the balances from the corresponding line of the Consolidated Statements of Operations and the detailed financial information for discontinued operations in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. (2) The year ended December 31, 2022 includes a gain upon change of control related to the sale of a 30% interest to a sovereign wealth fund and deconsolidation of seven previously consolidated lab buildings in South San Francisco, California. The gain upon change of control is included in other income (expense), net in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. (3) The year ended December 31, 2023 includes costs related to the Mergers, which are primarily comprised of legal, accounting, tax, and other costs that were incurred prior to year-end, partially offset by termination fee income associated with Graphite Bio, Inc., for which the lease terms have been modified to accelerate expiration of the lease to December 2024. Termination fee income is included in rental and related revenues on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. (4) The year ended December 31, 2022 includes the following: (i) $7 million of charges incurred in connection with the downsizing of our corporate headquarters in Denver, Colorado, which are included in general and administrative expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Operations, (ii) $14 million of expenses incurred for tenant relocation and other costs associated with the demolition of an outpatient medical building, which are included in other income (expense), net in the Consolidated Statements of Operations, and (iii) a $23 million gain on sale of a hospital under a DFL, which is included in other income (expense), net in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. The year ended December 31, 2021 includes the following: (i) a $29 million goodwill impairment charge in connection with our senior housing triple-net and SHOP asset sales, which is reported in income (loss) from discontinued operations in the Consolidated Statements of Operations and (ii) $6 million of accelerated recognition of a mark-to-market discount, less loan fees, resulting from prepayments on loans receivable, which is included in interest income in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. The years ended December 31, 2023, 2022, and 2021 include reserves and (recoveries) for expected loan losses recognized in impairments and loan loss reserves (recoveries), net in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. (5) The year ended December 31, 2022 includes $32 million of severance-related charges associated with the departures of our former Chief Executive Officer and former Chief Legal Officer and General Counsel in the fourth quarter of 2022. These expenses are included in general and administrative expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. (6) Casualty-related charges (recoveries), net are recognized in other income (expense), net and equity income (loss) from unconsolidated joint ventures in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. (7) In conjunction with classifying the assets related to the Callan Ridge JV (see Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements) as held for sale as of December 31, 2023, we concluded it was more likely than not that we would realize the future value of certain deferred tax assets generated by the net operating losses of taxable REIT subsidiaries. Accordingly, during the year ended December 31, 2023, we recognized the reversal of a portion of the associated valuation allowance and recognized a corresponding income tax benefit. See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (8) The year ended December 31, 2023 includes a $9 million write-off of straight-line rent receivable associated with Sorrento Therapeutics, Inc., which commenced voluntary reorganization proceedings under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. This activity is reflected as a reduction of rental and related revenues in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires our management to use judgment in the application of critical accounting estimates and assumptions. We base estimates on the best information available to us at the time, our experience and on various other assumptions believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. These estimates could affect our financial position or results of operations. If our judgment or interpretation of the facts and circumstances relating to various transactions or other matters had been different, it is possible that different accounting would have been applied, resulting in a different presentation of our consolidated financial statements. From time to time, we re-evaluate our estimates and assumptions. In the event estimates or assumptions prove to be different from actual results, adjustments are made in subsequent periods to reflect more current estimates and assumptions about matters that are inherently uncertain. Below is a discussion of accounting estimates that we consider critical in that they may require complex judgment in their application or require estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. For a more detailed discussion of our significant accounting policies, including those related to critical accounting estimates further discussed below, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Impairment of Long-Lived Assets We assess the carrying value of our real estate assets and related intangibles (“real estate assets”) when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Recoverability of real estate assets is measured by comparing the carrying amount of the real estate assets to the respective estimated future undiscounted cash flows. The expected future undiscounted cash flows reflect external market factors, and based on the specific facts and circumstances, may be probability-weighted to reflect multiple possible cash-flow scenarios, including selling the assets at various points in the future. Additionally, the estimated future undiscounted cash flows are calculated utilizing the lowest level of identifiable cash flows that are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities. In order to review our real estate assets for recoverability, we make assumptions regarding external market conditions (including capitalization rates and growth rates), forecasted cash flows and sales prices, and our intent with respect to holding or disposing of the asset. If our analysis indicates that the carrying value of the real estate assets is not recoverable on an undiscounted cash flow basis, we recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the real estate assets. 67 Determining the fair value of real estate assets, including assets classified as held for sale, involves significant judgment and generally utilizes market capitalization rates, comparable market transactions, estimated per unit or per square foot prices, negotiations with prospective buyers, and forecasted cash flows (primarily lease revenue rates, expense rates, and growth rates). Our ability to accurately predict future operating results and resulting cash flows, and estimate fair values, impacts the timing and recognition of impairments. While we believe our assumptions are reasonable, changes in these assumptions may have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the impact of new accounting standards.