********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

The factors described below represent the Company's principal risks. CLIMATE CHANGE - RELATED RISKS Climate Change: Climate change-related risks and uncertainties, legal or regulatory responses to climate change and failure to meet the Company’s climate change commitments could negatively impact the Company’s results of operations, financial condition and/or reputation. The Company is subject to increasing climate-related risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside of its control. Climate change may result in more frequent and damaging severe weather and weather-related events, potential changes in precipitation patterns and extreme variability in weather patterns. These short- and long-term weather and weather-related events can disrupt the operations of the Company as well as those of its customers, partners and vendors due to damage to local infrastructure and other property damage limiting site access, and causing water scarcity and lack of access to high-quality water, among other factors. These risks and uncertainties may also directly or indirectly impact decisions to invest in the construction and/or renovation of new or existing manufacturing sites and other Company facilities and locations. The transition to lower greenhouse gas emissions technology, the effects of carbon pricing and changes in public sentiment, regulations, taxes, public mandates or requirements and increases in climate-related lawsuits, insurance premiums and implementation of more robust disaster recovery and business continuity plans could increase costs to maintain or resume the Company’s operations or achieve its sustainability commitments in the expected timeframes, which would negatively impact the Company’s results of operations. In 2020, the Company announced commitments to reduce its net annual Scope 1 and 2 CO 2 e emissions by an additional 5 million metric tons, or 15 percent compared with its 2020 baseline, by 2030 (the 2020 baseline represents a 15 percent reduction in greenhouse gas emissions since 2005) and its intention to be carbon neutral by 2050 (Scope 1+2+3, as defined by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, plus product benefits). In November 2023, the Board approved the final investment decision to build the world's first net-zero Scope 1 and 2 CO 2 e emissions integrated ethylene cracker and derivatives facility in Alberta, Canada, a key element for the Company to achieve its 2030 greenhouse gas emissions reduction commitment. The commitments reflect the Company's current plans and targets and are not guarantees that it will be able to achieve them. The execution and achievement of the Company's commitments within projected cost estimates and expected timeframes, including the success of the Company's integrated ethylene cracker and derivatives facility in Alberta, Canada, are subject to risks and uncertainties which include, but are not limited to: advancement, availability, development and affordability of technology necessary to achieve these commitments; unforeseen design, operational and technological difficulties; availability and cost of necessary materials and components; adapting products to customer preferences and customer acceptance of sustainable supply chain solutions; changes in public sentiment and political leadership; and the Company’s ability to comply with changing regulations, taxes, mandates or requirements related to greenhouse gas emissions or other climate-related matters, including prescriptive reporting of climate-related matters. In addition, standards for tracking and reporting on sustainability matters have not been harmonized, continue to evolve and may change over time, which could result in significant revisions to the Company's performance metrics, commitments or reported progress in achieving such commitments. Given the focus on sustainable investing, if the Company fails to meet its climate change commitments within the committed timeframe, coupled with its significant investments to meet those commitments, and adopt policies and practices to enhance sustainability, the Company’s reputation and its customer and other stakeholder relationships could be negatively impacted, reducing demand for the Company's products, and it may be more difficult for the Company to compete effectively or gain access to financing on acceptable terms when needed, which could negatively impact the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. PANDEMIC - RELATED RISKS Public Health Crisis: A public health crisis or global outbreak of disease could have a negative effect on the Company's manufacturing operations, supply chain and workforce, creating business disruptions that could have a substantial negative impact on the Company’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. A public health crisis, including a pandemic similar in nature to coronavirus disease 2019, could impact all geographic regions where Dow products are produced and sold. The global, regional and local spread of a public health crisis could result in, and in the past has resulted in, significant global mitigation measures, including government-directed quarantines, social distancing and shelter-in-place mandates, travel restrictions and/or bans, 20 mask and vaccination mandates, restrictions on large gatherings and restricted access to certain corporate facilities and manufacturing sites. Business disruptions and market volatility resulting from a public health crisis could have a substantial negative impact on the Company’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The adverse impact of a pandemic could include, and in the past has included, without limitation, fluctuations in the Company’s stock price due to market volatility; a decrease in demand for certain Company products; price declines; reduced profitability; supply chain disruptions impeding the Company’s ability to ship and/or receive product; temporary idling or permanent closure of select manufacturing facilities and/or manufacturing assets; asset impairment charges; interruptions or limitations to manufacturing operations imposed by local, state or federal governments; reduced market liquidity and increased borrowing costs; workforce absenteeism and distraction; labor shortages; customer credit concerns; increased cybersecurity risk and data accessibility disruptions due to remote working arrangements; workforce reductions and fluctuations in foreign currency markets. Additional risks may include, but are not limited to: shortages of key raw materials; potential impairment in the carrying value of goodwill; additional asset impairment charges; increased obligations related to the Company’s pension and other postretirement benefit plans; and tax valuation allowance; and may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks described in this "Risk Factors" section. MACROECONOMIC RISKS Financial Commitments and Credit Markets: Market conditions could reduce the Company's flexibility to respond to changing business conditions or fund capital needs. Adverse economic conditions, such as high interest rates, could reduce the Company’s flexibility to respond to changing business and economic conditions or to fund capital expenditures or working capital needs. The economic environment could result in a contraction in the availability of credit in the marketplace and reduce sources of liquidity for the Company. This could result in higher borrowing costs. Global Economic Considerations: The Company operates in a global, competitive environment which gives rise to operating and market risk exposure. The Company sells its broad range of products and services in a competitive, global environment, and competes worldwide for sales on the basis of product quality, price, technology and customer service. Increased levels of competition could result in lower prices or lower sales volume, which could have a negative impact on the Company’s results of operations. Sales of the Company's products are also subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations; trade agreements; import and export controls; taxes; and duties and tariffs. The imposition of additional regulations, controls, taxes and duties and tariffs or changes to bilateral and regional trade agreements could result in lower sales volume, which could negatively impact the Company’s results of operations. Economic conditions around the world, and in certain industries in which the Company does business, also impact sales price and volume and affect the efficacy of the Company's supply chain. For example, market uncertainty and an economic downturn driven by inflationary pressures have recently reduced demand for the Company's products, resulting in decreased sales volume. Adverse economic conditions also caused supply chain constraints. These factors have had a negative impact on the Company's results of operations. Additionally, political tensions; war, including the ongoing conflicts in the Middle East and between Russia and Ukraine with the related sanctions and export restrictions; terrorism; epidemics; pandemics; or political instability in the geographic regions or industries in which the Company sells its products could also reduce demand for the Company's products and result in decreased sales volume or supply chain disruptions, which could have a negative impact on the Company’s results of operations. In February 2022, Russia invaded Ukraine resulting in the United States, Canada, the European Union and other countries imposing economic sanctions on Russia. Dow suspended purchases of feedstocks and energy from Russia and has significantly reduced its operations and product offerings in the country. Dow has also stopped all investments in Russia and is only supplying limited essential goods to Russia. These actions have not had and are not expected to have a material impact on the Company's financial condition or results of operations. However, the fluidity and continuation of the conflict may result in additional economic sanctions and other impacts which could have a negative impact on the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. These include decreased sales; supply chain and logistics disruptions; volatility in foreign exchange rates and interest rates; inflationary pressures on and availability of raw materials and energy, most notably in Europe; and heightened cybersecurity threats. Further, the intensity and duration of the conflict in the Middle East and potential expansion of the hostilities in the region are difficult to predict and could disrupt the Company's supply chain operations, which could have a negative impact on the Company's results of operations. 21 In addition, volatility and disruption of financial markets could limit customers’ ability to obtain adequate financing to maintain operations, which could result in a decrease in sales volume and have a negative impact on the Company’s results of operations. The Company’s global business operations also give rise to market risk exposure related to changes in inflation, foreign currency exchange rates, including the impact of foreign currency exchange rates resulting from highly inflationary economies such as Argentina, interest rates, commodity prices and other market factors such as equity prices. To manage such risks, the Company enters into hedging and other investment transactions, where deemed appropriate, pursuant to established guidelines and policies. If the Company fails to effectively manage such risks, it could have a negative impact on its results of operations. Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits: Increased obligations and expenses related to the Company's defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans could negatively impact its financial condition and results of operations. While the Company has frozen its defined benefit plans and other postretirement benefit plans in the United States, the Company continues to sponsor these plans as well as defined benefit pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans in a number of other countries (together with U.S. plans, the “plans”). The assets of the Company's funded plans are primarily invested in fixed income securities, equity securities of U.S. and foreign issuers and alternative investments, including investments in real estate, private equity and absolute return strategies. Changes in the market value of plan assets, investment returns, discount rates, mortality rates and regulations may affect the funded status of the Company's plans and could cause volatility in the net periodic benefit cost, future funding requirements of the plans and the funded status of the plans. A significant increase in the Company's obligations or future funding requirements could have a negative impact on the Company's results of operations and cash flows for a particular period and on the Company's financial condition. Supply/Demand Balance: Earnings generated by the Company's products vary based in part on the balance of supply relative to demand within the industry. The balance of supply relative to demand within the industry may be significantly impacted by the addition of new capacity, especially for basic commodities where capacity is generally added in large increments as world-scale facilities are built. This may result in excess capacity which can disrupt regional industry supply and demand balances, particularly in Europe, Middle East, Africa and India ("EMEAI") and Asia Pacific, resulting in downward pressure on prices and decreased operating rates, which could negatively impact the Company’s results of operations. LEGAL AND REGULATORY RISKS Environmental Compliance: The costs of complying with evolving regulatory requirements could negatively impact the Company's financial results. Actual or alleged violations of environmental laws or permit requirements could result in restrictions or prohibitions on plant operations, substantial civil or criminal sanctions, as well as the assessment of strict liability and/or joint and several liability. The Company is subject to extensive federal, state, local and foreign laws, regulations, rules and ordinances relating to pollution, protection of the environment, climate change, greenhouse gas emissions, and the generation, storage, handling, transportation, treatment, disposal and remediation of hazardous substances and waste materials. In addition, the Company may have costs related to environmental remediation and restoration obligations associated with past and current sites as well as related to its past or current waste disposal practices or other hazardous materials handling. Although management will estimate and accrue liabilities for these obligations, it is reasonably possible that the Company’s ultimate cost with respect to these matters could be significantly higher, which could negatively impact the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. Costs and capital expenditures relating to environmental, health or safety matters are subject to evolving regulatory requirements and depend on the timing of the promulgation and enforcement of specific standards which impose the requirements. Moreover, changes in environmental regulations could inhibit or interrupt the Company’s operations, or require modifications to its facilities. Accordingly, environmental, health or safety regulatory matters could result in significant unanticipated costs or liabilities. For additional information, see Part II, Item 7. Other Matters, Environmental Matters in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Health and Safety: Increased concerns regarding the safe use of chemicals and plastics in commerce and their potential impact on the environment have resulted in more restrictive regulations and could lead to new regulations. Concerns regarding the safe use of chemicals and plastics in commerce and their potential impact on health and the environment reflect a growing trend in societal demands for increasing levels of product safety and environmental protection. These concerns could manifest themselves in stockholder proposals, preferred purchasing, delays or failures in obtaining or retaining regulatory approvals, delayed product launches, lack of 22 market acceptance and continued pressure for more stringent regulatory intervention and litigation. These concerns could also influence public perceptions, the viability or continued sales of certain of the Company's products, its reputation and the cost to comply with regulations. In addition, terrorist attacks and natural disasters have increased concerns about the security and safety of chemical production and distribution. These concerns could have a negative impact on the Company's results of operations. Local, state, federal and foreign governments continue to propose new regulations related to the security of chemical plant locations and the transportation of hazardous chemicals, which could result in higher operating costs. Litigation: The Company is party to a number of claims and lawsuits arising out of the normal course of business with respect to product liability, patent infringement, employment matters, governmental tax and regulation disputes, contract and commercial litigation, and other actions. Certain of the claims and lawsuits facing the Company purport to be class actions and seek damages in very large amounts. All such claims are contested. With the exception of the possible effect of the asbestos-related liability of Union Carbide Corporation (“Union Carbide”) as described below, it is the opinion of the Company’s management that the possibility is remote that the aggregate of all such claims and lawsuits will have a material adverse impact on the Company’s consolidated financial statements. Union Carbide is and has been involved in a large number of asbestos-related suits filed primarily in state courts during the past four decades. At December 31, 2023, Union Carbide's total asbestos-related liability, including future defense and processing costs, was $867 million ($947 million at December 31, 2022). Plastic Waste: Increased concerns regarding plastic waste in the environment, resulting in the demand for substitute materials; brand owners selectively reducing their use of plastic products; a lack of plastic waste collection and recycling infrastructure and a failure to develop circular plastic materials or a circular economy for plastics; and/or the development of new or more restrictive regulations and rules related to plastic waste and related emissions could reduce demand for the Company’s plastic products and could negatively impact the Company’s financial results. Plastics have faced increasing public scrutiny due to low recycling rates and the presence of plastic waste in the environment, including the world’s oceans and rivers, and pollution associated with the manufacture of plastics. Accordingly, regulators, manufacturers, brand owners and consumers are driving demand for materials made with recycled content, bio-based materials and materials made with low or zero carbon emission options, and local, state, federal and foreign governments are proposing and implementing regulations to address the global plastic waste challenge, including, but not limited to, extended producer responsibility fees, recycled content mandates, taxes on plastics at the national level and bans on non-essential items. Further, an intergovernmental negotiation committee is in the process of negotiating an international legally binding instrument to end plastic pollution. Dow is one of the world’s largest plastics producers and sells plastic products that continue to enable increasing quality and standards of living and offer significant greenhouse gas reductions compared with alternative solutions. In order to both maintain the benefits of plastics, meet growing demand for circular and renewable plastics and advance efforts to end plastic pollution in the environment, the Company is partnering with other organizations to bring the waste back into the circular economy. The Company's Transform the Waste target (announced in October 2022) aims to transform plastic waste and other forms of waste to commercialize 3 million metric tons of circular and renewable solutions by 2030. Further, the Company has committed to reducing its net annual greenhouse gas emissions and intends to be carbon neutral by 2050 (Scope 1+2+3, as defined by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, plus product benefits). Without the expansion of proper waste collection and recycling infrastructure and the development of a circular economy for plastics at scale, along with increased pressure to reduce the use of plastics, the Company could experience reduced demand for its polyethylene products, which could negatively impact the Company’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. OPERATIONAL AND STRATEGIC RISKS Company Strategy: Implementing certain elements of the Company's strategy could negatively impact its financial results. The Company currently has manufacturing operations, sales and marketing activities, and joint ventures in emerging geographic regions. Activities in these geographic regions are accompanied by uncertainty and risks including: navigating different government regulatory environments; relationships with new, local partners; project 23 funding commitments and guarantees; expropriation, military actions, war, terrorism and political instability; sabotage; uninsurable risks; suppliers not performing as expected resulting in increased risk of extended project timelines; and determining raw material supply and other details regarding product movement. Additionally, disruptions to supply chains, distribution chains and/or public and private infrastructure and services, including those caused by industry capacity constraints, material availability, global logistics delays, and third party service and material providers; and constraints arising from, among other things, the transportation capacity of ocean shipping containers; global labor availability constraints; and/or disruptions to the Company's site operations caused by tenant and neighboring manufacturing operations, as well as the Company's ability to attract and retain a talented workforce, could materially and adversely impact the Company's business operations. If the manufacturing operations, supply chains, sales and marketing activities are not reliable and/or the implementation of the Company's projects is not successful, it could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Cybersecurity Threat: Disruption of the Company's information technology, data security, and other operating or third-party systems, including disruption of the ability to safely and reliably operate the Company's facilities; the risk of loss of the Company’s proprietary information including trade secrets, know-how or other sensitive business information; and the risk of loss or security of the private data of the Company, its customers and its employees could negatively impact the Company’s business strategy, results of operations, financial condition and reputation. The Company relies on various information systems, including information systems operated by third-parties, to support safe, efficient and reliable business and operating processes and activities and to safeguard its proprietary information assets, including trade secrets, know-how and other sensitive, business critical information. These systems are critical to the Company's process to accurately report financial results for management and external reporting purposes and to ensure compliance with financial reporting, legal and tax requirements in the United States and around the world. These systems may also be used to collect and process sensitive customer and personal employee data the Company may be legally required to protect. Increased global cybersecurity vulnerabilities, threats and more sophisticated and targeted cyberattacks continue to pose risks to the Company’s products, systems and networks, and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of the Company’s data. These vulnerabilities also expose the Company’s customers, suppliers and third-party service providers to loss. In addition, the Company is exposed to similar risks resulting from cyberattacks that are experienced by its suppliers and other vendors. As a result, cyberattacks, internal and external security breaches, and attacks and security breaches of third-party systems could disrupt the Company's operations, compromise Dow’s proprietary and confidential, business critical information, jeopardize the Company's ability to safeguard and maintain accurate data, including personal data, and harm the Company's reputation which could result in litigation, enforcement actions, including fines, penalties and disruption of the Company's right to operate in certain jurisdictions, and significant remediation costs. Additionally, the Company’s use of artificial intelligence software may create additional risks related to the unintentional disclosure of proprietary, confidential, personal or otherwise sensitive information. While the Company has a comprehensive cybersecurity program that is continuously reviewed, maintained and upgraded, cyberattacks by nation-state organizations, crime organizations and other hackers have become increasingly sophisticated, and it is possible for such attacks to remain undetected for an extended period of time. Such attacks could have a material negative impact on the Company’s business strategy, results of operations, financial position and reputation. More information on the Company’s processes for assessing, identifying and managing material risks from cybersecurity threats, including management’s role and the Board's oversight of such processes, can be found in Item 1C. Cybersecurity. Goodwill: An impairment of goodwill could negatively impact the Company’s financial results. At least annually, the Company assesses goodwill for impairment. If testing indicates that goodwill is impaired, the carrying value is written down based on fair value with a charge against earnings. Where the Company utilizes a discounted cash flow methodology in determining fair value, continued weak demand for a specific product line or business could result in an impairment. Accordingly, any determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of goodwill could negatively impact the Company's results of operations. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Company's goodwill impairment testing. 24 Operational Event: A significant operational event could negatively impact the Company's results of operations. As a diversified chemical manufacturing company, the Company's operations at each site, including maintenance of its facilities, the transportation of supplies and products, cyberattacks, pandemics and other public health-related events or severe weather conditions and other natural phenomena (such as freezing, drought, hurricanes, earthquakes, tsunamis, floods, etc.) could result in an unplanned event that could be significant in scale and could negatively impact operations, neighbors or the public at large, which could have a negative impact on the Company's results of operations. Major hurricanes and other weather-related events have caused significant disruption in the Company's operations on the U.S. Gulf Coast, logistics across the region, and the supply of certain raw materials, which had an adverse impact on volume and cost for some of its products. Due to the Company's substantial presence on the U.S. Gulf Coast, similar severe weather conditions or other natural phenomena in the future could negatively impact the Company's results of operations. Other non-weather-related unplanned events have also caused disruptions in the Company’s operations at various sites. While the Company has processes in place to minimize the risks and impacts of such events, such unplanned future events could negatively impact the Company’s results of operations. Raw Materials: Availability of purchased feedstock and energy, and the volatility of these costs, impact Dow’s operating costs and add variability to earnings. Purchased feedstock and energy costs account for a substantial portion of the Company’s total production costs and operating expenses. The Company purchases hydrocarbon raw materials including ethane, propane, butane, naphtha and condensate as feedstocks and purchases certain monomers, primarily ethylene and propylene, to supplement internal production, as well as other raw materials. The Company also purchases natural gas, primarily to generate electricity, electric power to supplement internal generation, and steam. Feedstock and energy costs generally follow price trends in crude oil and natural gas, which are sometimes volatile. Power prices often follow general energy trends, and are additionally subject to short-term surfeits and shortages related to, for example, intermittent wind and solar generation, and power generation and transmission outages. While the Company uses its feedstock flexibility and financial and physical hedging programs to help mitigate feedstock cost increases, the Company is not always able to immediately raise selling prices. Ultimately, the ability to pass on underlying cost increases is dependent on market conditions. Conversely, when feedstock and energy costs decline, selling prices generally decline as well. As a result, volatility in these costs could impact the Company’s results of operations. While the Company expects abundant and cost-advantaged supplies of natural gas liquids ("NGLs") in the United States to persist for the foreseeable future, if NGLs become significantly less advantaged than crude oil-based feedstocks, it could have a negative impact on the Company’s results of operations and future investments. Also, if the Company’s key suppliers of feedstock and energy are unable to provide the raw materials required for production, it could have a negative impact on the Company’s results of operations.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

STATEMENT ON CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES The Company's global business operations give rise to market risk exposure related to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and international capital flows that may be affected by extensive regulations and controls, especially in developing or highly inflationary countries such as Argentina. In December 2023, the Argentina government devalued the Argentine peso, which resulted in pretax charges for foreign currency exchange losses and inventory valuation impacts of $177 million ($52 million related to Packaging & Specialty Plastics, $16 million related to Industrial Intermediates & Infrastructure and $109 million related to Corporate). The Company continues to monitor these situations and take appropriate actions as necessary to manage the financial impact pursuant to established guidelines and policies. If the Company is unable to manage certain exposures in a cost-effective manner it could have a significant negative impact on its future results of operations and cash flows. A detailed discussion of these and other principal risks and uncertainties, which may negatively impact the future results of the Company, are included in Part I, Item 1A. Risk Factors. ABOUT DOW Dow is one of the world’s leading materials science companies, serving customers in high-growth markets such as packaging, infrastructure, mobility and consumer applications. The Company's global breadth, asset integration and scale, focused innovation, leading business positions and commitment to sustainability enables the Company to achieve profitable growth and help deliver a sustainable future. Dow operates manufacturing sites in 31 countries and employs approximately 35,900 people. In 2023, the Company had annual sales of $45 billion, of which 37 percent were to customers in the U.S. & Canada; 33 percent were in Europe, Middle East, Africa and India ("EMEAI"); while the remaining 30 percent were to customers in Asia Pacific and Latin America. In 2023, the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries did not operate in countries subject to U.S. economic sanctions and export controls as imposed by the U.S. State Department or in countries designated by the U.S. State Department as state sponsors of terrorism, including Cuba, Iran, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (North Korea) and Syria. The Company has policies and procedures in place designed to ensure that it and its consolidated subsidiaries remain in compliance with applicable U.S. laws and regulations. 30 OVERVIEW The following is a summary of the results for the Company for the year ended December 31, 2023: The Company reported net sales in 2023 of $45 billion, down 22 percent from $57 billion in 2022, with decreases across all geographic regions and operating segments, and driven by a decrease in local price of 16 percent and a volume decrease of 6 percent. Local price decreased 16 percent compared with 2022, with decreases in all operating segments and geographic regions, driven by slower global macroeconomic activity creating unfavorable supply and demand dynamics, industry supply additions and lower global energy and feedstocks costs. Local price decreased in Packaging & Specialty Plastics (down 16 percent), Industrial Intermediates & Infrastructure (down 14 percent) and Performance Materials & Coatings (down 15 percent). Volume decreased 6 percent compared with 2022, with decreases in Packaging & Specialty Plastics (down 5 percent), Industrial Intermediates & Infrastructure (down 9 percent) and Performance Materials & Coatings (down 5 percent). Volume decreased in the U.S. & Canada (down 6 percent), EMEAI (down 9 percent), and Asia Pacific (down 4 percent), which was partially offset by an increase in Latin America (up 4 percent). Currency impact on net sales was flat compared with 2022. Restructuring and asset related charges - net were $528 million in 2023 primarily reflecting restructuring actions approved by the Board in January 2023. The restructuring charges consisted of severance and related benefit costs of $344 million and asset write-downs and write-offs of $191 million and were partially offset by other asset related credit adjustments of $7 million related to a prior restructuring program. Equity in losses of nonconsolidated affiliates was $119 million in 2023, compared with earnings of $268 million in 2022, primarily due to declines at Sadara and the Kuwait joint ventures. Sundry income (expense) - net for Dow Inc. and TDCC was expense of $280 million and $327 million, respectively, in 2023, compared with income of $727 million and $714 million, respectively, in 2022. Sundry income (expense) - net decreased primarily due to a non-cash settlement charge related to the Company's pension de-risking activities and higher foreign currency exchange losses, which included the impact of the December 2023 devaluation of the Argentine peso. Income from the successful and final resolution and recognition of a long-running patent infringement award was included in 2022. Net income available for Dow Inc. and TDCC common stockholder(s) was $589 million and $556 million, respectively, in 2023, compared with $4,582 million and $4,583 million, respectively, in 2022. Earnings per share for Dow Inc. was $0.82 per share in 2023, compared with $6.28 per share in 2022. In 2023, Dow Inc. declared and paid dividends to common stockholders of $2.80 per share ($1,972 million). In 2023, Dow Inc. repurchased $625 million of the Company's common stock. Other notable events and highlights from the year ended December 31, 2023 include: • On January 25, 2023, the Board approved restructuring actions ("2023 Restructuring Program") to achieve the Company's structural cost improvement initiatives in response to the continued economic impact from the global recessionary environment and to enhance its agility and long-term competitiveness across the economic cycle. This program included a global workforce cost reduction program, decreased turnaround spending and actions that rationalized the Company’s manufacturing assets, which included asset write-down and write-off charges and related contract termination fees. • On April 25, 2023, the Company announced that it had selected Linde as its industrial gas partner for the supply of circular hydrogen and nitrogen for its Fort Saskatchewan Path2Zero investment. • On May 11, 2023, Dow Inc. announced Seadrift, Texas, as the location of its small modular nuclear reactor project as part of a joint development agreement with X-energy. • On June 15, 2023, Fitch Ratings affirmed TDCC’s BBB+ long-term credit rating and announced a short-term credit rating upgrade to F1 from F2, and also revised its long-term outlook from positive to stable. On 31 August 22, 2023, Standard and Poor's affirmed TDCC's BBB and A-2 rating, and revised its outlook from positive to stable. These credit agencies' decisions were made as part of their annual review process and reflect the Company's supportive financial policies and strong operating performance. • On June 19, 2023, Dow Inc. released its INtersections Progress Report, demonstrating how the Company's continued focus and actions align to its ambition and goal to deliver value growth; best-in-class performance; and innovative, sustainable solutions to address global challenges. • On July 14, 2023, an incident occurred that included an explosion and subsequent fire at Dow's Louisiana Operations Glycol-2 unit in Plaquemine, Louisiana. There were no injuries reported from the incident and it was limited to the Glycol-2 unit with minimal disruption to other site operations. The Company completed a root cause investigation and is executing a plan to restore operations. The Company's estimated impact on pretax earnings from the incident is $100 million per quarter. The Glycol-2 unit is expected to resume operations in the second quarter of 2024. • On October 24, 2023, the Company announced that Howard Ungerleider, President and Chief Financial Officer, had elected to retire in January 2024 after 33 years of service with Dow. • On October 24, 2023, the Company announced that Jeffrey L. Tate had been named Chief Financial Officer. • On November 28, 2023, the Company announced the Board declared Final Investment Decision on the Company's Fort Saskatchewan Path2Zero investment to build the world's first net-zero Scope 1 and 2 emissions integrated ethylene cracker and derivatives facility in Alberta, Canada. • On December 18, 2023, the Company announced that Ronald C. Edmonds, Controller and Vice President of Controllers and Tax, had elected to retire in July 2024, after 31 years of service with Dow. • On December 18, 2023, the Company announced that Andrea L. Dominowski had been named Controller and Vice President of Controllers effective February 1, 2024. • Dow was named on the Top 100 Global Innovators ™ list for the 12th consecutive year. • Dow received a record-setting nine 2023 Edison Awards ™ (five gold, three silver and one bronze), once again earning more awards than any other organization for the sixth consecutive year. • Dow was named to the JUST 100 list, placing 55th overall, an 11-place improvement from last year, and securing the top spot for Communities in the Chemicals sector. • Dow was named to Bloomberg’s 2022 Gender-Equality Index for the third consecutive year. • Dow earned a spot in the S&P Global Sustainability Yearbook, recognizing the Company as a top industry performer. • Dow was honored as a winner of a 2023 Artificial Intelligence Award for the development of technology that identifies and predicts corrosion failures in metal coatings. • Dow received five 2023 BIG Innovation Awards from the Business Intelligence Group ™ , the most received in a single Business Intelligence Group ™ Awards program by the Company. • Dow was recognized with a 2023 CIO 100 Award for its successful Smart Search tool, powered by CAS. • Dow was titled a Supplier Engagement Leader by CDP, a result of actions taken by the Company to address climate change. • Dow advanced to seventh place on the 2023 DiversityInc Top 50 Companies for Diversity list making it the sixth consecutive year on the list. Dow was also included on 15 of DiversityInc's Specialty Lists including: Top Companies for Executive Diversity Councils, Top Companies for People with Disabilities, Top Companies for Black Executives, Top Companies for Latino Executives, Top Companies for Executive Women, Top Companies for Employee Resource Groups and Top Companies for Environmental, Social and Governance. • Dow's EVOWASH ™ Antifoam Agents and Readily Biodegradable Detergents and Dow's LuxSense ™ Silicone Leather each received a SEAL (Sustainability, Environmental Achievement & Leadership) Sustainable Innovation Award. Dow's SYL-OFF ™ EM-7920NF Emulsion Coating was a winner of the SEAL Sustainable Product Award. • Dow received five awards (Overall Winner, three golds, one silver) at the annual U.S Customer Experience Awards. 32 • For the seventh consecutive year, Dow received a top score on the Disability Equality Index ™ , placing the Company among the Best Places to Work for Disability Inclusion ™ for 2023. • Dow Technology won the 2023 ICIS Innovation Award which recognizes companies that are paving the way in product, process, and sustainability innovations across the chemicals industry. • Dow was named one of the 2023 PEOPLE ® Companies that Care by Great Place to Work ® and PEOPLE ® for the fourth consecutive year. • Dow was honored by Great Place to Work ® and Fortune as one of the World's Best Workplaces. Dow was also certified as a Great Place to Work ® in 13 countries and ranked on 10 national Best Workplaces lists, including the Fortune 100 Best Companies to Work For ® list in the United States for the third consecutive year. • Dow was named to the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index by S&P Dow Jones Indices, the world's leading index provider focused on providing essential sustainability intelligence. In addition to the highlights above, the following events occurred subsequent to December 31, 2023: • On January 19, 2024, Moody's Investors Service affirmed TDCC's Baa1 and P-2 rating, and affirmed its outlook of stable. • On January 25, 2024, the Company published its Green Finance Framework and related Second Party Opinion on its website, to support the execution of its sustainability strategy. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS For comparison of results of operations for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, see Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022, filed with the SEC on February 1, 2023. Net Sales The following tables summarize net sales and sales variances by operating segment and geographic region from the prior year: 33 2023 Versus 2022 The Company reported net sales of $44.6 billion in 2023, down 22 percent from $56.9 billion in 2022, with local price down 16 percent, volume down 6 percent, and currency flat. Net sales decreased by double digits in all operating segments and across all geographic regions, primarily driven by lower prices and demand due to slower global macroeconomic activity. Local price decreased in all operating segments and across all geographic regions driven by industry supply additions and lower global energy and feedstock costs. Local price decreased in Packaging & Specialty Plastics (down 16 percent), Industrial Intermediates & Infrastructure (down 14 percent) and Performance Materials & Coatings (down 15 percent). Volume decreased in all operating segments and geographic regions, except Latin America (up 4 percent). Volume decreased in Packaging & Specialty Plastics (down 5 percent), Industrial Intermediates & Infrastructure (down 9 percent) and Performance Materials & Coatings (down 5 percent). Excluding the Hydrocarbons & Energy business, sales decreased 20 percent. Cost of Sales Cost of sales ("COS") was $39.7 billion in 2023, compared with $48.3 billion in 2022. COS decreased in 2023 primarily due to lower raw material costs on lower volume, lower global energy and feedstock costs and the impact of structural cost improvements. COS as a percentage of net sales was 89.1 percent in 2023, compared with 84.9 percent in 2022. Research and Development Expenses Research and development ("R&D") expenses were $829 million in 2023, compared with $851 million in 2022. R&D expenses decreased in 2023 primarily due to the impact of structural cost improvements as well as lower performance-based compensation costs. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") expenses were $1,627 million in 2023, compared with $1,675 million in 2022. SG&A expenses decreased in 2023 primarily due to lower bad debt expense, the impact of structural cost improvements and lower performance-based compensation costs, which more than offset increases associated with the Company's restructuring implementation and efficiency actions and fringe benefit expenses tied to stock market changes. Amortization of Intangibles Amortization of intangibles was $324 million in 2023, compared with $336 million in 2022. Amortization of intangibles decreased primarily due to certain intangible assets becoming fully amortized. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on intangible assets. Restructuring and Asset Related Charges - Net 2023 Restructuring Program On January 25, 2023, the Board approved restructuring actions to achieve the Company's structural cost improvement initiatives in response to the continued economic impact from the global recessionary environment and to enhance its agility and long-term competitiveness across the economic cycle. These actions are expected to be substantially complete by the end of 2024. As a result of these actions, in 2023 the Company recorded pretax restructuring charges of $535 million, consisting of severance and related benefit costs of $344 million and asset write-downs and write-offs of $191 million. The restructuring charges by segment were as follows: $1 million in Packaging & Specialty Plastics, $50 million in Industrial Intermediates & Infrastructure, $49 million in Performance Materials & Coatings and $435 million in Corporate. These charges were partially offset by other asset related credit adjustments of $7 million in Corporate related to a prior restructuring program. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Equity in Earnings (Losses) of Nonconsolidated Affiliates The Company’s share of equity in losses of nonconsolidated affiliates was $119 million in 2023, compared with earnings of $268 million in 2022, with lower equity earnings at all principal joint ventures and primarily due to margin compression at Sadara and the Kuwait joint ventures as a result of lower local prices and demand. 34 Sundry Income (Expense) - Net Sundry income (expense) – net includes a variety of income and expense items such as foreign currency exchange gains and losses, dividends from investments, gains and losses on sales of investments and assets, non-operating pension and other postretirement benefit plan credits or costs, losses on early extinguishment of debt and certain litigation matters. TDCC Sundry income (expense) - net for 2023 was expense of $327 million, compared with income of $714 million in 2022. In 2023, sundry income (expense) - net included a $642 million non-cash settlement charge related to the purchase of nonparticipating group annuity contracts for certain pension plans (related to Corporate) and foreign currency exchange losses, including $109 million related to the December 2023 devaluation of the Argentine peso (related to Corporate). These were partially offset by non-operating pension and postretirement benefit plan credits, a $106 million gain associated with a legal matter with Nova Chemicals Corporation (related to Packaging & Specialty Plastics), and gains on the sales of assets and investments. See Notes 5, 14, 18 and 24, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. In 2022, sundry income (expense) - net included a $321 million gain related to the successful and final resolution and recognition of a long-running patent infringement award (related to Packaging & Specialty Plastics), a $60 million gain related to an adjustment to the Dow Silicones breast implant liability (related to Corporate), non-operating pension and postretirement benefit plan credits and gains on the sales of assets and investments. These were partially offset by foreign currency exchange losses and an $8 million loss on the early extinguishment of debt (related to Corporate). See Notes 5, 13, 14, 18 and 24, to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Dow Inc. Sundry income (expense) - net for 2023 was expense of $280 million, compared with income of $727 million in 2022. In 2023, in addition to the amounts previously discussed above for TDCC, sundry income (expense) - net included a $42 million net gain associated with agreements and matters with DuPont de Nemours, Inc. ("DuPont") and Corteva, Inc. ("Corteva") (related to Corporate). In 2022, in addition to the amounts previously discussed above for TDCC, sundry income (expense) - net included a $4 million net gain associated with agreements entered into with DuPont and Corteva as part of the separation and distribution (related to Corporate). Interest Expense and Amortization of Debt Discount Interest expense and amortization of debt discount was $746 million in 2023, compared with $662 million in 2022. The increase in interest expense is primarily due to $1.5 billion of senior unsecured notes issued in the fourth quarter of 2022 and local country borrowings outside the United States in 2023. See Liquidity and Capital Resources in Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to debt financing activity. Provision for Income Taxes The Company's effective tax rate fluctuates based on, among other factors, where income is earned, the level of income relative to tax attributes and the level of equity earnings, since most earnings from the Company's equity method investments are taxed at the joint venture level. The underlying factors affecting the Company's overall tax rate are summarized in Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company reported a tax credit of $4 million in 2023, resulting in an effective tax rate of negative 0.6 percent, compared with a tax provision of $1,450 million in 2022, resulting in an effective tax rate of 23.8 percent. The credit for income taxes and the lower effective tax rate in 2023 compared with 2022 were primarily due to a decrease in pretax income, changes to geographic mix of earnings, increases in tax basis in assets located in foreign jurisdictions, partially offset by changes in uncertain tax positions in various jurisdictions. The Company continues to monitor and evaluate legislative developments related to the Global Anti-Base Erosion Proposal ("GloBE") established by the Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development’s ("OECD") Pillar 35 Two framework. Several countries in which the Company operates have adopted those rules into their legislation and several others are expected to implement in the future. The Company continues to evaluate impacts as further guidance is released. Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests was $71 million in 2023, compared with $58 million in 2022. See Notes 17 and 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Net Income Available for the Common Stockholder(s) Dow Inc. Net income available for Dow Inc. common stockholders was $589 million in 2023, compared with $4,582 million in 2022. Earnings per share of Dow Inc. was $0.82 per share in 2023, compared with $6.28 per share in 2022. See Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for details on Dow Inc.'s earnings per share calculations. TDCC Net income available for TDCC common stockholder was $556 million in 2023, compared with $4,583 million in 2022. TDCC's common shares are owned solely by Dow Inc. SEGMENT RESULTS The Company conducts its worldwide operations through six global businesses which are organized into the following operating segments: Packaging & Specialty Plastics, Industrial Intermediates & Infrastructure and Performance Materials & Coatings. Corporate contains the reconciliation between the totals for the operating segments and the Company's totals. The Company did not aggregate any operating segments when determining its reportable segments. The Company reports geographic information for the following regions: U.S. & Canada, EMEAI, Asia Pacific and Latin America. The Company transfers ethylene to its downstream derivative businesses at market prices. See Part I, Item 1. Business for further discussion of the Company's segments. The Company’s measure of profit/loss for segment reporting purposes is Operating EBIT as this is the manner in which the Company's chief operating decision maker ("CODM") assesses performance and allocates resources. The Company defines Operating EBIT as earnings (i.e., "Income before income taxes") before interest, excluding the impact of significant items. Operating EBIT by segment includes all operating items relating to the businesses; items that principally apply to Dow as a whole are assigned to Corporate. See Note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for reconciliations of these measures. For comparison of segment results for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, see Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022, filed with the SEC on February 1, 2023. PACKAGING & SPECIALTY PLASTICS 36 2023 Versus 2022 Packaging & Specialty Plastics net sales were $23,149 million in 2023, down 21 percent from net sales of $29,260 million in 2022, with local price down 16 percent, volume down 5 percent and currency flat. Local price decreased in Packaging and Specialty Plastics, in all geographic regions, primarily driven by lower polyethylene prices due to unfavorable industry supply and demand dynamics. Local price decreased in Hydrocarbons & Energy, in all geographic regions, as prices for co-products are generally correlated to Brent crude oil prices, which, on average, decreased 17 percent compared with 2022. Volume was flat in Packaging and Specialty Plastics, with an increase in Latin America offset by decreases in all other geographic regions. Volume decreased in Hydrocarbons & Energy, primarily in EMEAI and the U.S. & Canada, driven by lower sales of olefins and aromatics. Operating EBIT was $2,700 million in 2023, down $1,410 million from Operating EBIT of $4,110 million in 2022. Operating EBIT decreased primarily due to lower selling prices, which was partially offset by lower raw material, energy and feedstock costs and the impact of structural cost improvements. INDUSTRIAL INTERMEDIATES & INFRASTRUCTURE 2023 Versus 2022 Industrial Intermediates & Infrastructure net sales were $12,538 million in 2023, down 24 percent from $16,606 million in 2022, with local price down 14 percent, volume down 9 percent and an unfavorable currency impact of 1 percent. Local price decreased in both businesses and across all geographic regions, driven by unfavorable supply and demand dynamics. Volume in Industrial Solutions decreased in all geographic regions, driven primarily by industrial, coatings and agricultural applications as well as a significant unplanned event at the Louisiana Operations Glycol-2 unit in Plaquemine, Louisiana. Volume in Polyurethanes & Construction Chemicals decreased in all geographic regions, largely driven by lower demand, particularly in consumer durables and building and construction applications. Currency unfavorably impacted sales in both businesses, driven by Asia Pacific and EMEAI. Operating EBIT was $124 million in 2023, down $1,294 million from Operating EBIT of $1,418 million in 2022. Operating EBIT decreased primarily due to lower selling prices and volume due to lower global demand and lower equity earnings at the Sadara and EQUATE joint ventures, which were partially offset by the impact of structural cost improvements. 37 PERFORMANCE MATERIALS & COATINGS 2023 Versus 2022 Performance Materials & Coatings net sales were $8,497 million in 2023, down 21 percent from net sales of $10,764 million in 2022, with local price down 15 percent, volume down 5 percent and an unfavorable currency impact of 1 percent. Local price decreased in both businesses and across all geographic regions. Consumer Solutions local price decreased primarily due to unfavorable supply and demand dynamics in upstream siloxanes. Local price decreased in Coatings & Performance Monomers primarily in acrylic monomers and architectural coatings and was driven by lower raw material prices and unfavorable supply and demand dynamics. Volume decreased in Consumer Solutions in all regions, except for Asia Pacific, which was flat, driven by lower demand for upstream siloxanes, industrial and chemical processing and personal care applications, partially offset by higher demand in building and construction applications. Volume decreased in Coatings & Performance Monomers in all geographic regions and was driven by lower demand in residential construction applications. The unfavorable currency impact was driven by Asia Pacific. Operating EBIT was $219 million in 2023, down $1,109 million from Operating EBIT of $1,328 million in 2022. Operating EBIT decreased primarily due to lower selling prices and lower demand in both businesses, which were partially offset by lower raw material costs and the impact of structural cost improvements. CORPORATE 2023 Versus 2022 Net sales for Corporate, which primarily relate to the Company's insurance operations, were $438 million in 2023, up from net sales of $272 million in 2022. Operating EBIT was a loss of $265 million in 2023, compared with a loss of $266 million in 2022. Improvements in insurance operations and equity earnings were offset by increased environmental costs. 38 OUTLOOK Operating Segments & End-Market Expectations In 2024, Dow is expected to maintain its commitment to financial and operational discipline while navigating dynamic market conditions. While the Company expects softness in industrial and durable goods demand to continue in the first quarter, early positive signals in areas including construction, automotive and consumer electronics are encouraging. The Company's strong balance sheet and cash generation provide flexibility to cover all capital allocation priorities as the Company progresses through the economic cycle and advances its Decarbonize & Grow and Transform the Waste strategies. A cost-advantaged footprint, leadership in attractive end-markets, and strategic growth investments position the Company well to create long-term value. In Packaging & Specialty Plastics, moderately improving macroeconomic conditions are expected to support demand growth, notably in higher-value functional polymers and flexible food and specialty packaging. Integrated margins are expected to improve in the second half of the year on industry operating rate recoveries. The Company’s feedstock flexibility and advantaged regional footprint will continue to position the segment well to navigate market dynamics throughout the year. In-region presence and superior derivative flexibility will allow the segment to continue to optimize price and volume mix. In Industrial Intermediates & Infrastructure, market fundamentals are expected to remain pressured for propylene oxide, polyols, isocyanates, construction chemicals and derivatives, largely driven by recent industry capacity additions. Resilient demand is expected in food and pharma end-markets, and the Company will benefit from its multi-year growth project that will expand propylene glycol production at its Map Ta Phut site, which is expected to come online in 2024. Additionally, the Glycol-2 unit at Dow's Louisiana Operations in Plaquemine, Louisiana, is expected to resume operations in the second quarter of 2024. Recent and soon-to-be-completed investments in specialty amines and alkoxylation capacity are expected to serve resilient consumer demand in home care, pharmaceuticals and energy transition. While sales are expected to be relatively flat, the Company will focus on capturing volume growth in key markets. In Performance Materials & Coatings, performance silicone products are well-positioned to deliver volume growth in key markets. Volume growth is expected in feedstocks and intermediates as well as modest price increases, driven by moderately improved industry supply and demand dynamics. Demand and local prices in architectural and industrial coatings face uncertainty given their correlation with the building and construction market as well as interest rates. Other factors impacting operating segment profitability include an expected increase in planned maintenance turnaround spending of approximately $200 million compared with 2023. Projected Uses of Cash Items that may impact the consolidated statements of cash flows in 2024 include: • Cash contributions to pension plans are expected to be approximately $150 million. • Capital expenditures are expected to be approximately $3 billion. • Cash dividends from equity companies are expected to be approximately $200 million. • Cash outflows related to the Company's 2023 Restructuring Program, including restructuring implementation costs, are expected to be approximately $400 million. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES The Company had cash and cash equivalents of $2,987 million at December 31, 2023 and $3,886 million at December 31, 2022, of which $1,984 million at December 31, 2023 and $1,789 million at December 31, 2022, was held by subsidiaries in foreign countries, including U.S. territories. For each of its foreign subsidiaries, the Company makes an assertion regarding the amount of earnings intended for permanent reinvestment, with the balance available to be repatriated to the United States. Cash held by foreign subsidiaries for permanent reinvestment is generally used to finance the subsidiaries' operational activities and future foreign investments. Dow has the ability to repatriate additional funds to the United States, which could result in an adjustment to the tax liability for foreign withholding taxes, foreign and/or U.S. state income taxes and the impact of foreign currency movements. At December 31, 2023, management believed that sufficient liquidity was available in the United States. The Company has and expects to continue repatriating certain funds from its non-U.S. subsidiaries that are not needed to finance local operations; however, these particular repatriation activities have not and are not expected to result in a significant incremental tax liability to the Company. 39 For comparison of cash flows for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, see Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022, filed with the SEC on February 1, 2023. The Company’s cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities, as reflected in the consolidated statements of cash flows, are summarized in the following table: Cash Flows from Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations in 2023 was primarily driven by the Company's cash earnings, dividends from equity method investments and cash provided by working capital, which were partially offset by performance-based compensation payments, severance payments related to the 2023 Restructuring Program and pension contributions. Cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations in 2022 was primarily driven by the Company's cash earnings, dividends from equity method investments and cash provided by working capital, which were partially offset by performance-based compensation payments and pension contributions. Cash used for operating activities from discontinued operations reflected cash payments and receipts for certain agreements and matters related to the Company's separation from DowDuPont Inc. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Cash used for investing activities in 2023 and 2022 was primarily for capital expenditures and purchases of investments, which were partially offset by proceeds from sales and maturities of investments. The Company's capital expenditures were $2,356 million in 2023 and $1,823 million in 2022. Capital spending was higher in 2023 as the Company continued the ramp up of investments in its higher return, lower risk and quick payback incremental growth projects. The Company expects capital spending in 2024 to be approximately $3 billion, which includes the ramp up of the construction of the Company's Fort Saskatchewan Path2Zero project. The Company expects capital spending to average $1 billion annually through 2029 for this key growth project. Enterprise-wide capital spending is expected to exceed depreciation and amortization through 2027, during the first phase of the project. 40 Capital spending in recent years has included the retrofit of one of the Company's Louisiana steam crackers with Dow's proprietary fluidized catalytic dehydrogenation ("FCDh") technology to produce on-purpose propylene and the addition of a new specialty alkoxylation reactor in Plaquemine, Louisiana, which were both completed in 2022; the addition of an integrated methylene diphenyl diisocyanate ("MDI") distillation and prepolymers facility at its site in Freeport, Texas, which was completed in 2023; and construction of a world-scale polyethylene unit on the U.S. Gulf Coast. Cash Flows from Financing Activities Cash used for financing activities in 2023 was primarily for debt related activities. In addition, Dow Inc. included cash outflows for dividends paid to stockholders and purchases of treasury stock. TDCC included cash outflows for dividends paid to Dow Inc. Cash used for financing activities in 2022 included payments on long-term debt, which was more than offset by proceeds from issuance of long-term debt. In addition, Dow Inc. included cash outflows for dividends paid to stockholders and purchases of treasury stock. TDCC included cash outflows for dividends paid to Dow Inc. See Notes 13 and 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to the issuance and retirement of debt and the Company's share repurchases and dividends. Non-GAAP Cash Flow Measures Free Cash Flow Dow defines Free Cash Flow as "Cash provided by operating activities - continuing operations," less capital expenditures. Under this definition, Free Cash Flow represents the cash generated by Dow from operations after investing in its asset base. Free Cash Flow, combined with cash balances and other sources of liquidity, represents the cash available to fund obligations and provide returns to shareholders. Free Cash Flow is an integral financial measure used in the Company's financial planning process. Operating EBITDA Dow defines Operating EBITDA as earnings (i.e., "Income before income taxes") before interest, depreciation and amortization, excluding the impact of significant items. Cash Flow Conversion (Cash Flow From Operations to Operating EBITDA) Dow defines Cash Flow Conversion (Cash flow from operations to Operating EBITDA) as "Cash provided by operating activities - continuing operations," divided by Operating EBITDA. Management believes Cash Flow Conversion is an important financial metric as it helps the Company determine how efficiently it is converting its earnings into cash flow. These financial measures are not recognized in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP") and should not be viewed as alternatives to GAAP financial measures of performance. All companies do not calculate non-GAAP financial measures in the same manner and, accordingly, Dow's definitions may not be consistent with the methodologies used by other companies. 41 1. The year ended December 31, 2023, includes restructuring charges and implementation and efficiency costs associated with the Company's 2023 Restructuring Program, certain gains and losses associated with previously impaired equity investments, a loss associated with legacy agricultural products groundwater contamination matters, a gain associated with a legal matter with Nova Chemicals Corporation, foreign currency losses and inventory valuation impacts related to the devaluation of the Argentine peso, non-cash settlement charges related to the purchase of nonparticipating group annuity contracts for certain Company pension plans in the United States and Canada and activity related to the separation from DowDuPont. The year ended December 31, 2022, includes costs associated with implementing the Company's Digital Acceleration program and 2020 Restructuring Program, asset related charges due to the Russia and Ukraine conflict, a gain related to a legal matter with Nova Chemicals Corporation, a gain related to an adjustment of the Dow Silicones breast implant liability, a loss on the early extinguishment of debt and activity related to the separation from DowDuPont. See Note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Liquidity & Financial Flexibility The Company’s primary source of incremental liquidity is cash flows from operating activities. The generation of cash from operations and the Company's ability to access capital markets is expected to meet the Company’s cash requirements for working capital, capital expenditures, debt maturities, contributions to pension plans, dividend distributions to stockholders, share repurchases and other needs. In addition to cash from operating activities, the Company’s current liquidity sources also include TDCC's U.S. and Euromarket commercial paper programs, committed and uncommitted credit facilities, committed and uncommitted accounts receivable facilities, a medium-term notes program, a U.S. retail note program (“InterNotes ® ”) and other debt markets. The Company continues to maintain a strong financial position with all of its committed credit facilities undrawn and fully available at December 31, 2023. Cash and committed and available forms of liquidity were $12.8 billion at December 31, 2023, a decrease of $900 million from December 31, 2022. The Company also has no substantive long-term debt maturities due until 2027. Additional details on sources of liquidity are as follows: Commercial Paper TDCC issues promissory notes under its U.S. and Euromarket commercial paper programs. TDCC had no commercial paper outstanding at December 31, 2023 ($299 million at December 31, 2022). TDCC maintains access to the commercial paper market at competitive rates. Amounts outstanding under TDCC's commercial paper programs during the period may be greater or less than the amount reported at the end of the period. Subsequent to December 31, 2023, TDCC issued approximately $0 million of commercial paper. Committed Credit Facilities The Company also has the ability to access liquidity through TDCC's committed and available credit facilities. At December 31, 2023, TDCC had total committed and available credit facilities of $8.4 billion. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on committed and available credit facilities. Uncommitted Credit Facilities The Company has entered into various uncommitted bilateral credit arrangements as a potential source of excess liquidity. These lines can be used to support short-term liquidity needs and for general purposes. The Company had no drawdowns outstanding at December 31, 2023. 42 Accounts Receivable Facilities In addition to the above committed credit facilities, the Company maintains a committed accounts receivable facility in the United States where eligible trade accounts receivable, up to $900 million, may be sold at any point in time. The Company also maintains a committed accounts receivable facility in Europe where eligible trade accounts receivable, up to €500 million, may be sold at any point in time. Sales of receivables under these committed facilities were not material in 2023. At December 31, 2023, approximately $5 million of receivables remained unremitted. In addition, the Company has an uncommitted accounts receivable facility in the United States providing additional liquidity. Sales of receivables under this facility were not material in 2023. See Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information . Early Settlement of Letters of Credit The Company utilizes, from time-to-time, letters of credit discounting programs to manage and expedite the settlement of letters of credit in certain regions. These letters of credit are associated with accounts receivable and the Company retains no interest in the transferred letters of credit or receivables once sold. Accounts Receivable Discounting Facilities The Company has access to accounts receivable discounting facilities, under which receivables are transferred with limited recourse. The Company retains no interest in the transferred receivables once sold. The Company maintains these facilities and also participates in certain customers’ supply chain financing and other early pay programs as a routine source of working capital. Letters of Credit TDCC utilizes letters of credit to support commitments made in the ordinary course of business. While the terms and amounts of letters of credit change, TDCC generally has approximately $600 million of outstanding letters of credit at any given time. Company-Owned Life Insurance The Company has investments in company-owned life insurance ("COLI") policies, which are recorded at their cash surrender value as of each balance sheet date. The Company has the ability to monetize its investment in its COLI policies as an additional source of liquidity. At December 31, 2023, the Company had monetized $97 million of its existing COLI policies' surrender value. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Shelf Registration - United States On June 13, 2022, Dow Inc. and TDCC filed a shelf registration statement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The shelf indicates that Dow Inc. may offer common stock; preferred stock; depositary shares; debt securities; guarantees; warrants to purchase common stock, preferred stock and debt securities; and stock purchase contracts and stock purchase units, with pricing and availability of any such offerings depending on market conditions. The shelf also indicates that TDCC may offer debt securities, guarantees and warrants to purchase debt securities, with pricing and availability of any such offerings depending on market conditions. In 2022, TDCC filed a prospectus supplement under this shelf registration to register an undetermined amount of securities for issuance under InterNotes ® . Also, in 2022, TDCC filed a prospectus supplement under this shelf registration to register an undetermined amount of securities for issuance under a medium-term notes program. 43 Debt As the Company continues to maintain its strong balance sheet and financial flexibility, management is focused on net debt (a non-GAAP financial measure), as the Company believes this is the best representation of its financial leverage at this point in time. As shown in the following table, net debt is equal to total gross debt minus "Cash and cash equivalents" and "Marketable securities." 1. Included in "Other current assets" in the consolidated balance sheets. In the fourth quarter of 2023, the Company redeemed $23 million aggregate principal amount of 2.100 percent notes due November 2030, $14 million aggregate principal amount of 4.625 percent notes due October 2044, and $1 million aggregate principal amount of 4.375 percent notes due November 2042. In 2023, the Company issued an aggregate principal amount of $80 million of InterNotes ® . Additionally, the Company repaid $250 million of long-term debt at maturity. The Company may at any time repurchase certain debt securities in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions subject to: the applicable terms under which any such debt securities were issued, certain internal approvals of the Company, and applicable laws and regulations of the relevant jurisdiction in which any such potential transactions might take place. This in no way obligates the Company to make any such repurchases nor should it be considered an offer to do so. TDCC’s public debt instruments and primary, private credit agreements contain, among other provisions, certain customary restrictive covenant and default provisions. TDCC’s most significant debt covenant with regard to its financial position is the obligation to maintain the ratio of its consolidated indebtedness to consolidated capitalization at no greater than 0.70 to 1.00 at any time the aggregate outstanding amount of loans under the Five Year Competitive Advance and Revolving Credit Facility Agreement ("Revolving Credit Agreement") equals or exceeds $500 million. The ratio of TDCC’s consolidated indebtedness as defined in the Revolving Credit Agreement was 0.41 to 1.00 at December 31, 2023. Management believes TDCC was in compliance with all of its covenants and default provisions at December 31, 2023. For information on TDCC's debt covenants and default provisions, see Note 13. There were no material changes to the debt covenants and default provisions related to TDCC’s outstanding long-term debt and primary, private credit agreements in 2023. Dow Inc. is obligated, substantially concurrently with the issuance of any guarantee in respect of outstanding or committed indebtedness under the Revolving Credit Agreement, to enter into a supplemental indenture with TDCC and the trustee under TDCC’s existing 2008 base indenture governing certain notes issued by TDCC. Under such supplemental indenture, Dow Inc. will guarantee all outstanding debt securities and all amounts due under such existing base indenture and will become subject to certain covenants and events of default under the existing base indenture. In addition, the Revolving Credit Agreement includes an event of default which would be triggered in the event Dow Inc. incurs or guarantees third party indebtedness for borrowed money in excess of $250 million or engages in any material activity or directly owns any material assets, in each case, subject to certain conditions and exceptions. Dow Inc. may, at its option, cure the event of default by delivering an unconditional and irrevocable guarantee to the administrative agent within thirty days of the event or events giving rise to such event of default. 44 No such events have occurred or have been triggered at the time of the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. See Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information related to TDCC’s notes payable and long-term debt activity and information on TDCC’s debt covenants and default provisions. While taking into consideration the current economic environment, management expects that the Company will continue to have sufficient liquidity and financial flexibility to meet all of its business obligations. Credit Ratings TDCC's credit ratings at January 31, 2024 were as follows: On June 15, 2023, Fitch Ratings affirmed TDCC’s BBB+ long-term credit rating and announced a short-term credit rating upgrade to F1 from F2, and also revised its long-term outlook from positive to stable. On August 22, 2023, Standard and Poor's affirmed TDCC's BBB and A-2 rating, and revised its outlook from positive to stable. Subsequent to 2023, on January 19, 2024, Moody's Investors Service affirmed TDCC's Baa1 and P-2 rating, and affirmed its outlook of stable. These credit agencies' decisions were made as part of their annual review process and reflect the Company's supportive financial policies and strong operating performance. Dividends Dow Inc. Dow Inc. has paid dividends on a quarterly basis and expects to continue to do so, subject to approval by the Board. The dividends declared by the Board align to the Company's strategy announced in 2018 of returning approximately 45 percent of Operating Net Income to shareholders through dividends and total shareholder remuneration of approximately 65 percent, when including share repurchases, over the economic cycle. The Company defines Operating Net Income, a non-GAAP measure, as "Net income available for Dow Inc. common stockholders," excluding the impact of significant items. The following tables provide information on dividends declared and paid to common stockholders: TDCC TDCC has committed to fund Dow Inc.'s dividends paid to common stockholders and share repurchases, as approved by the Board from time to time, as well as certain governance expenses. Funding is accomplished through intercompany loans. TDCC's Board of Directors reviews and determines a dividend distribution to Dow Inc. to settle the intercompany loans. For the year ended December 31, 2023, TDCC declared and paid dividends to Dow Inc. of $2,510 million ($4,375 million for the year ended December 31, 2022). At December 31, 2023, TDCC's intercompany loan balance with Dow Inc. was insignificant. See Note 23 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. 45 Share Repurchase Program On April 13, 2022, the Board approved a share repurchase program authorizing up to $3 billion for the repurchase of the Company's common stock, with no expiration date. The Company repurchased $625 million of its common stock in 2023. At December 31, 2023, approximately $1,425 million of the share repurchase program authorization remained available for repurchases. As previously announced, the Company intends to repurchase shares to cover dilution over the cycle. The Company may from time to time expand its share repurchases beyond dilution, based on a number of factors including macroeconomic conditions, free cash flow generation, and the Dow share price. Any share repurchases, when coupled with the Company's dividends, are intended to implement the long-term strategy of targeting shareholder remuneration of approximately 65 percent over the economic cycle. Pension Plans The Company has both funded and unfunded defined benefit pension plans in the United States and a number of other countries. On March 4, 2021, the Company announced changes to the design of its U.S. tax-qualified and non-qualified pension plans (collectively, the "U.S. Plans") and, effective December 31, 2023, the Company froze the pensionable compensation and credited service amounts used to calculate pension benefits for employees who participate in the U.S. Plans. In recent years, the Company had significantly increased funding of its U.S. plans while employing certain pension de-risking strategies. Accordingly, in the fourth quarter of 2023, the Company’s pension plans in the United States and Canada purchased or converted to nonparticipating group annuity contracts, irrevocably transferring benefit obligations of $1,681 million for certain participants and $1,617 million of related plan assets to the insurers, requiring no additional cash funding from the Company, with no impact on the pension benefits of participants. These transactions resulted in non-cash pretax settlement charges of $642 million in 2023, related to the accelerated recognition of a portion of the accumulated actuarial losses of the plans. The Company’s funding policy for its pension plans is to contribute to funded plans when pension laws and/or economics either require or encourage funding. In 2023 and 2022, the Company contributed $142 million and $235 million to its pension plans, respectively, including contributions to fund benefit payments for its unfunded pension plans. Additionally, in the second quarter of 2023, the Company received a pension asset reversion of approximately $90 million for a portion of the excess funding of one of its plans in Europe, which is included in "Other assets and liabilities, net" in the consolidated statements of cash flows. The Company expects to contribute approximately $150 million to its pension plans in 2024. See Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information concerning the Company’s pension plans. Restructuring The actions related to the 2023 Restructuring Program are expected to result in additional cash expenditures of $122 million, primarily through 2024 and consist primarily of severance and related benefit costs. Restructuring implementation and efficiency costs, primarily decommissioning and demolition activities related to asset actions, and costs associated with the Company's productivity and efficiency actions, are expected to result in additional cash expenditures of approximately $285 million, primarily through the end of 2024. Restructuring implementation and efficiency costs totaled $243 million in 2023. The Company expects to incur additional costs in the future related to its restructuring activities, which will be recognized as incurred. The Company also expects to incur additional employee-related costs, including involuntary termination benefits related to its other optimization activities. These costs cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. See Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the Company's restructuring activities. 46 Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes the Company’s contractual obligations, commercial commitments and expected cash requirements for interest at December 31, 2023. Additional information related to these obligations can be found in Notes 13, 14, 15 and 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 1. Excludes unamortized debt discount and issuance costs of $258 million. Includes finance lease obligations of $873 million. 2. Cash requirements for interest on long-term debt was calculated using current interest rates at December 31, 2023, and includes $10 million of various floating rate notes. 3. Includes imputed interest of $259 million. 4. Includes outstanding purchase orders and other commitments greater than $1 million obtained through a survey conducted within the Company. 5. Includes liabilities related to asbestos litigation, environmental remediation, legal matters and other noncurrent liabilities. In addition to these items, Dow Inc. includes liabilities related to noncurrent obligations with DuPont and Corteva. The table excludes uncertain tax positions due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions with the respective taxing authorities and deferred tax liabilities as it is impractical to determine whether there will be a cash impact related to these liabilities. The table also excludes deferred revenue as it does not represent future cash requirements arising from contractual payment obligations. The Company expects to meet its contractual obligations through its normal sources of liquidity and believes it has the financial resources to satisfy these contractual obligations. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Off-balance sheet arrangements are obligations the Company has with nonconsolidated entities related to transactions, agreements or other contractual arrangements. The Company holds variable interests in joint ventures accounted for under the equity method of accounting. The Company is not the primary beneficiary of these joint ventures and therefore is not required to consolidate these entities (see Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). In addition, see Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information regarding the transfer of financial assets. Guarantees arise during the ordinary course of business from relationships with customers, committed accounts receivable facilities and nonconsolidated affiliates when the Company undertakes an obligation to guarantee the performance of others if specific triggering events occur. Additional information related to guarantees can be found in the “Guarantees” section of Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Fair Value Measurements See Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for information related to fair value measurements of pension and other postretirement benefit plan assets; see Note 20 for information related to other-than-temporary impairments; and, see Note 21 for additional information concerning fair value measurements. 47 OTHER MATTERS Recent Accounting Guidance See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a summary of recent accounting guidance. Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in accordance with U.S. GAAP requires management to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements describes the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements. Following are the Company’s accounting policies impacted by judgments, assumptions and estimates: Asbestos-Related Matters of Union Carbide Corporation Union Carbide is and has been involved in a large number of asbestos-related suits filed primarily in state courts during the past four decades. These suits principally allege personal injury resulting from exposure to asbestos-containing products and frequently seek both actual and punitive damages. The alleged claims primarily relate to products that Union Carbide sold in the past, alleged exposure to asbestos-containing products located on Union Carbide’s premises, and Union Carbide’s responsibility for asbestos suits filed against a former Union Carbide subsidiary, Amchem Products, Inc. ("Amchem"). Each year, Ankura Consulting Group, LLC ("Ankura") performs a review for Union Carbide based upon historical asbestos claims, resolution and asbestos-related defense and processing costs, through the terminal year of 2049. Union Carbide compares current asbestos claim and resolution activity, including asbestos-related defense and processing costs, to the results of the most recent Ankura study at each balance sheet date to determine whether the asbestos-related liability continues to be appropriate. For additional information, see Part I, Item 3. Legal Proceedings; Asbestos-Related Matters of Union Carbide Corporation in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations; and Notes 1 and 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Environmental Matters The Company determines the costs of environmental remediation of its facilities and formerly owned facilities based on evaluations of current law and existing technologies. Inherent uncertainties exist in such evaluations primarily due to unknown environmental conditions, changing governmental regulations and legal standards regarding liability, and emerging remediation technologies. The recorded liabilities are adjusted periodically as remediation efforts progress, or as additional technical or legal information becomes available. At December 31, 2023, the Company had accrued obligations of $1,180 million for probable environmental remediation and restoration costs, including $241 million for the remediation of Superfund sites. This is management’s best estimate of the costs for remediation and restoration with respect to environmental matters for which the Company has accrued liabilities, although it is reasonably possible that the ultimate cost with respect to these particular matters could range up to approximately two times that amount. For further discussion, see Environmental Matters in Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Notes 1 and 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits The amounts recognized in the consolidated financial statements related to pension and other postretirement benefits are determined from actuarial valuations. Inherent in these valuations are assumptions including expected return on plan assets, discount rates at which the liabilities could have been settled at December 31, 2023, rate of increase in future compensation levels, mortality rates and health care cost trend rates. These assumptions are updated annually and are disclosed in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In accordance with U.S. GAAP, actual results that differ from the assumptions are accumulated and amortized over future periods and, therefore, affect expense recognized and obligations recorded in future periods. The U.S. pension plans represent 72 percent of the Company’s pension plan assets and 70 percent of the pension obligations. The U.S. pension plans were frozen effective December 31, 2023, and therefore, participants will not accrue additional benefits for future service and compensation. The Company uses the spot rate approach to determine the discount rate utilized to measure the service cost and interest cost components of net periodic pension and other postretirement benefit costs for the United States and other selected countries. Under the spot rate approach, the Company calculates service cost and interest cost by applying individual spot rates from the Willis Towers Watson RATE:Link yield curve (based on high-quality corporate bond yields) for each selected country to the separate expected cash flow components of service cost and interest 48 cost; service cost and interest cost for all other plans (including all plans prior to adoption) are determined on the basis of the single equivalent discount rates derived in determining those plan obligations. The following information relates to the U.S. plans only; a similar approach is used for the Company’s non-U.S. plans. The Company determines the expected long-term rate of return on assets by performing a detailed analysis of historical and expected returns based on the strategic asset allocation approved by the Company's Investment Committee and the underlying return fundamentals of each asset class. The Company’s historical experience with the pension fund asset performance is also considered. The expected return of each asset class is derived from a forecasted future return confirmed by historical experience. The expected long-term rate of return is an assumption and not what is expected to be earned in any one particular year. The weighted-average long-term rate of return assumption used for determining net periodic pension expense for 2023 was 7.46 percent. The weighted-average assumption to be used for determining 2024 net periodic pension expense is 7.07 percent. Future actual pension expense will depend on future investment performance, changes in future discount rates and various other factors related to the population of participants in the Company’s pension plans. The discount rates utilized to measure the pension and other postretirement obligations of the U.S. plans are based on the yield on high-quality corporate fixed income investments at the measurement date. Future expected actuarially determined cash flows for the Company’s U.S. plans are individually discounted at the spot rates under the Willis Towers Watson U.S. RATE:Link 60-90 corporate yield curve (based on 60th to 90th percentile high-quality corporate bond yields) to arrive at the plan’s obligations as of the measurement date. The weighted average discount rate utilized to measure pension obligations decreased to 5.30 percent at December 31, 2023, from 5.64 percent at December 31, 2022. At December 31, 2023, the net underfunded status of the U.S. tax-qualified plans on a projected benefit obligation basis was $1,192 million. The net underfunded amount increased $647 million compared with December 31, 2022. The increase in the net underfunded amount in 2023 was primarily due to the market-related impact of lower discount rates. The Company uses a generational mortality table to determine the duration of its pension and other postretirement obligations. The following discussion relates to the Company’s significant pension plans. The Company bases the determination of pension expense on a market-related valuation of plan assets that reduces year-to-year volatility. This market-related valuation recognizes investment gains or losses over a five-year period from the year in which they occur. Investment gains or losses for this purpose represent the difference between the expected return calculated using the market-related value of plan assets and the actual return based on the market value of plan assets. Since the market-related value of plan assets recognizes gains or losses over a five-year period, the future value will be impacted when previously deferred gains or losses are recorded. Over the life of the plans, both gains and losses have been recognized and amortized. At December 31, 2023, net losses of $2,661 million remain to be recognized in the calculation of the market-related value of plan assets. These net losses will result in increases in future pension expense as they are recognized in the market-related value of assets. The net decrease in the market-related value of assets due to the recognition of prior losses is presented in the following table: Exclusive of the one-time settlement charge recognized in 2023, the Company expects net periodic benefit cost ("NPBC") to decrease in 2024 by approximately $96 million. The decrease is primarily due to the freeze of pension 49 benefits in the United States, effective December 31, 2023, and other de-risking activities, partially offset by discount rate decreases. A 25 basis point increase or decrease in the long-term return on assets assumption would change the Company’s NPBC credit for 2024 by $53 million. A 25 basis point increase in the discount rate assumption would increase the Company's NPBC credit for 2024 by $7 million. A 25 basis point decrease in the discount rate assumption would decrease the Company's NPBC credit for 2024 by $16 million. Income Taxes Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, applying enacted tax rates expected to be in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. Based on the evaluation of available evidence, both positive and negative, the Company recognizes future tax benefits, such as net operating loss carryforwards and tax credit carryforwards, to the extent that realizing these benefits is considered to be more likely than not. At December 31, 2023, the Company had a net deferred tax asset balance of $1,087 million, after valuation allowances of $2,948 million. In evaluating the ability to realize the deferred tax assets, the Company relies on, in order of increasing subjectivity, taxable income in prior carryback years, the future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, tax planning strategies and forecasted taxable income using historical and projected future operating results. The Company files tax returns in multiple jurisdictions and is subject to examination by taxing authorities throughout the world. Tax authorities have the ability to review and challenge matters that could be subject to differing interpretation of applicable tax laws and regulations as they relate to the amount, character, timing or inclusion of revenue and expenses or the sustainability of tax attributes. The ultimate resolution of such uncertainties could last several years. When an uncertain tax position is identified, the Company considers and interprets complex tax laws and regulations    in order to determine the need for recognizing a provision in its financial statements. Significant judgment is required in determining the timing and measurement of uncertain tax positions. The Company utilizes internal and external expertise in interpreting tax laws to support the Company's tax positions. The Company recognizes the financial statement effects of an uncertain income tax position when it is more likely than not, based on technical merits, that the position will be sustained upon examination. At December 31, 2023, the Company had uncertain tax positions for both domestic and foreign issues of $513 million and $561 million for interest and penalties. Environmental Matters Environmental Policies Dow is committed to world-class environmental, health and safety (“EH&S”) performance, as demonstrated by industry-leading results, a long-standing commitment to the American Chemistry Council's Responsible Care ® program, a strong commitment to achieve the Company's 2025 Sustainability Goals and Dow's drive to deliver against its targets around a circular economy and climate protection. These goals and targets set the standard for sustainability in the chemical industry, focusing on improvements in the Company’s local corporate citizenship and product stewardship, and by actively pursuing methods to reduce the Company's environmental impact. To meet the Company’s public commitments, as well as the stringent laws and government regulations related to environmental protection and remediation to which its global operations are subject, the Company has well-defined policies, requirements and management systems. The Company's EH&S Management System (“EMS”) defines the “who, what, when and how” needed for the businesses to implement the Company’s policies and requirements and meet performance objectives, leadership expectations and public commitments. To ensure effective utilization, the EMS is integrated into a company-wide management system for EH&S, Operations, Quality and Human Resources. The Company believes third-party verification and transparent public reporting are cornerstones of world-class EH&S performance and building public trust. Numerous Dow sites in Europe, Latin America, Asia Pacific and the U.S. & Canada have received third-party verification of the Company’s compliance with Responsible Care ® and with outside specifications such as ISO-14001. The Company continues to be a global champion of Responsible Care ® and has worked to broaden the application and impact of Responsible Care ® around the world through engagement with suppliers, customers and joint venture partners. 50 Dow manages environmental data for reporting with a waste, water and emissions inventory system. All emitting manufacturing sites globally record their emissions and water use in the system. The data is reviewed at the facility level and then by global coordinators before being aggregated for corporate environmental reporting purposes. Dow's EH&S policies help to ensure the Company achieves its annual health and safety performance targets and the Company seeks to continuously improve on these targets through process and personal safety project implementations. Improvement in these areas, as well as environmental compliance, remains a top management priority, as the Company continues to implement its 2025 Sustainability Goals and progressive, multi-decade sustainability targets that include advancing a circular economy and climate protection. Progress is reviewed annually by management and with the Environment, Health, Safety & Technology Committee of the Board. Detailed information on Dow’s performance regarding environmental matters and goals is accessible through the Company's Science & Sustainability webpage at www.dow.com/sustainability . Dow's website and its content are not deemed incorporated by reference into this report. Chemical Security Public and political attention continues to be placed on the protection of critical infrastructure, including the chemical industry, from security threats. Sabotage, terrorism, war, natural disasters and cybersecurity incidents have increased global concerns about the security and safety of chemical production and distribution. Many, including the Company and the American Chemistry Council, have called for uniform risk-based and performance-based national standards for securing the U.S. chemical industry. The Company is subject to U.S. regulations with established risk-based and performance-based standards that must be met at U.S. Coast Guard-regulated facilities promulgated by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security. The Company is also subject to the requirements of the Rail Transportation Security Rule issued by the U.S. Transportation Security Administration. The Company continues to support uniform risk-based national standards for securing the chemical industry. The Company maintains a comprehensive, multi-level security plan that focuses on security, emergency planning, preparedness and response. This plan, which has been activated in response to significant world and national events, is reviewed on an annual basis. The Company continues to improve its security plans, placing emphasis on the safety of Dow communities and people by being prepared to meet risks at any level and to address both internal and external identifiable risks. The security plan includes regular vulnerability assessments, security audits, mitigation efforts and physical security upgrades designed to reduce vulnerability. The Company’s security plans are also designed to avert interruptions of normal business operations that could materially and adversely affect the Company’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The Company played a key role in the development and implementation of the American Chemistry Council’s Responsible Care ® Security Code ("Security Code"), which requires that all aspects of security – including facility, transportation and cyberspace – be assessed and gaps addressed. Through the global implementation of the Security Code, the Company has permanently heightened the level of security – not just in the United States, but worldwide. The Company employs several hundred employees and contractors in its Emergency Services and Security department worldwide. In 2019, the Company established its Global Security Operations Center ("GSOC") to provide 24-hour/day, 365-day/year real-time monitoring of global risks to Dow assets and people. The GSOC employs state-of-the-art social media monitoring, threat reporting and geo-fencing capabilities to analyze global risks and report those risks, facilitating decision-making and actions to prevent Dow crises. Through the implementation of the Security Code, including voluntary security enhancements and upgrades, the Company is well-positioned to comply with U.S. chemical facility regulations and other regulatory security frameworks. The Company participates with the American Chemistry Council to periodically review and update the Security Code. The Company continues to work collaboratively across the supply chain on Responsible Care ® , supply chain design, emergency preparedness, shipment visibility and transportation of hazardous materials. The Company cooperated with public and private entities to lead the implementation of advanced tank car design, and track and trace technologies. Further, the Company’s Distribution Risk Review process addresses potential threats in all modes of transportation across the Company’s supply chain. To reduce vulnerabilities, the Company maintains security measures that meet or exceed regulatory and industry security standards in all areas in which they operate. 51 The Company's initiatives relative to chemical security, emergency preparedness and response, Community Awareness and Emergency Response and crisis management are implemented consistently at all Dow sites on a global basis. Each Dow site has established outreach programs designed to engage community stakeholders with objectives centered around awareness of Dow operations, products, and efforts to protect worker and community health and the environment. These programs also educate community members on emergency planning and response, emissions and waste, future site plans to reduce waste and emissions, and process safety systems. Finally, these outreach efforts establish an opportunity for Dow site leaders to hear about community stakeholder expectations and address questions and concerns about safety, health, environmental or other issues. The Company participates with chemical associations globally and participates as an active member of the Global Congress on Chemical Security and Emerging Threats and in positions of leadership in the U.S. Chemical Sector Coordinating Council. Climate Protection Evaluation of climate-related risks and opportunities continues to be a catalyst for the development of the Company’s Decarbonize & Grow strategy (Dow’s climate transition plan), its water-intensity goal and its Valuing Nature goal. Dow's science-based strategy includes a phased approach to decarbonize while meeting growing demand for Dow's products and contributing to a low-carbon future through continued investment in new products, technologies and processes. In 2020, Dow announced commitments to reduce its net annual Scope 1 and 2 CO 2 e emissions by an additional 5 million metric tons by 2030 versus its 2020 baseline, a 15 percent reduction versus 2020 and a 30 percent reduction in greenhouse gas emissions since 2005. Additionally, Dow announced its intention to be carbon neutral by 2050 (Scope 1+2+3, as defined by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, plus product benefits). In 2021, Dow outlined a path to decarbonize its production processes (Scope 1 and 2 CO 2 e emissions), utilizing a phased approach in which end-of-life capacity is replaced with higher-efficiency, lower greenhouse gas emitting assets. Reflecting Dow's focus to make meaningful progress in the near term, Dow intends to reduce its CO 2 e emissions by approximately 2 million metric tons by 2025 versus its 2020 baseline while growing underlying earnings and plans to build the world's first net-zero Scope 1 and 2 CO 2 e emissions integrated ethylene cracker and derivatives facility in Alberta, Canada, which is expected to add approximately 1,885 KTA of ethylene and polyethylene capacity by 2029. Dow is also committed to advancing water stewardship within the Company's operations and to working collaboratively to enhance water management at the watershed level. As part of this commitment, Dow has set a global target to reduce freshwater intake intensity by 20 percent at six key water-stressed sites by 2025. Additionally, Dow has implemented a robust process to quantify the value of products and projects that are better for nature, including nature-based solutions. Despite these commitments, climate change-related risks and uncertainties, legal or regulatory responses to climate change, and failure to meet climate change commitments could negatively impact Dow’s results of operations, financial condition and/or reputation. Climate-related risks include both physical and transition risks. Physical Risks Climate-related physical risks include more frequent severe weather events, potential changes in precipitation patterns, water scarcity and extreme variability in weather patterns, which can disrupt the operations of the Company as well as those of its customers, partners and vendors. To evaluate physical risks, Dow partnered with S&P Global Trucost (“Trucost”) to assess the Company’s exposure to physical risks based on the geographic location of its manufacturing operations. The risks assessed included water stress, flood, heat waves, cold waves, hurricanes, wildfires and sea level rise. The analysis included an assessment of the physical risks using a baseline year of 2020 with time periods for medium- (year 2030) and long-term (year 2050) using the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change representative concentration pathways. These pathways represent varying degrees of global atmospheric greenhouse gas concentrations (low, medium and high), and thus different expectations on global temperature rise. Results will be incorporated into Dow’s long-term assessments of its manufacturing sites, which is a key input into Dow’s capital approval process. Transition Risks Climate-related transition risks include the availability, development and affordability of lower greenhouse gas emissions technology, the effects of CO 2 e pricing, and changes in public sentiment, regulations, taxes, public mandates or requirements as they relate to CO 2 e, water or land use. Climate-related risks, including both physical and transition risks, are assessed with input from internal and external sources including corporate, business, function and geographic leaders; subject matter experts; investors; and other stakeholders. The evaluation of climate-related risks and opportunities is integrated into an annual company-wide 52 risk management process, known as enterprise risk management (“ERM”). ERM identifies significant or major risks to the Company and develops action plans to modify or mitigate risks. Every few years, Dow also utilizes a robust scenario analysis to assess the long-term materiality and impact of climate-related risks and opportunities. Scenario analysis is used to challenge business-as-usual assumptions and strengthen the resiliency of the Company’s Decarbonize & Grow strategy. Scenarios are used to evaluate both physical and transition risk and are particularly useful in evaluating the potential and impact of emerging risks. Decarbonize & Grow Dow’s Decarbonize & Grow strategy involves specific actions to mitigate identified climate-related physical and transition risks, while also advancing opportunities in several key areas. These include: • Optimizing Manufacturing Facilities and Processes for Sustainability: Dow is investing approximately $1 billion in annual capital across the economic cycle to decarbonize assets, in a phased approach, while growing capacity. • Increasing Clean Energy in Purchased Power Mix: Dow continues to invest in cost-efficient clean energy, including wind, solar, biomass and hydropower, across operations. • Developing Next Generation, Low-Carbon Manufacturing Technologies: Dow is investing in longer-term, future-focused manufacturing technologies that will be critical in the decarbonization of the Company's manufacturing. • Building a Value-Generating Scope 3 Decarbonization Pathway: Approximately two-thirds of Dow’s emissions footprint fall into the Scope 3 categories and more than half of those come from the raw materials, transportation and other services purchased as a company. The Company was recognized as a Supplier Engagement Leader for the second straight year by CDP, a global non-profit that directs the world’s environmental disclosure system for companies, cities, states and regions. Dow has significantly advanced its Scope 3 strategy by improving emissions accounting, advancing transparency along the value chain, and working closely with key suppliers to set and meet emissions reduction targets. • Developing Low-Carbon Products, Technologies and Services: Dow products are essential to a low carbon future, and the Company wants the world’s best brands to look to Dow to help them achieve their goals and make their products more sustainable. Dow is helping its customers achieve their climate goals by providing products that facilitate energy efficiency, lightweighting, fuel transition, circularity, increased operational efficiency, resource reductions and reduced emissions. Advancing Water Stewardship and Resilience As one of the largest materials science companies in the world, Dow depends on a steady supply of fresh water to create the products that are essential for everyday life and human progress. Dow strives to use the Company’s technology, expertise and partnerships to help conserve and promote regenerative water use, protect watersheds and create a future where clean water is abundant and available to all. Effective water stewardship is also required for long-term company viability and Dow’s senior executive leadership team oversees the Company’s water strategy. Dow’s water risk management approach recognizes that every site and every business is accountable for water while certain watersheds require additional measures to address specific water stress challenges. Key Dow locations have specific water action plans to address risk to operations given their dependence on a stressed watershed. These action plans include mitigations for local water scarcity or quality issues and consider the needs of other local users for freshwater. Additionally, Dow identified six sites in 2015, located in Texas (2); Bahia Blanca, Argentina; Terneuzen, The Netherlands; Böhlen, Germany; and Tarragona, Spain; where operations are located in a water-stressed watershed, have local water quality issues, have competition among local users for water, or have some local knowledge of watershed challenges, and these six sites have been the focus of actions since that time. Advancing a Circular Economy Dow is committed to turning the tide on plastic waste and meeting customers’ increasing demands for more sustainable and circular products through Dow's materials science expertise and its investments in circular innovations and partnerships – from designing for recyclability at the beginning of a product’s life to building materials ecosystems that will help turn plastic waste into a valuable resource that can be used to create new products. Dow is working to advance circularity for its key materials and, to this end, is working to deliver on its 53 enterprise target to Transform the Waste, which entails transforming plastic waste and other forms of feedstocks to deliver 3 million metric tons of circular and renewable solutions annually by 2030. To reach the target, Dow is collaborating with other stakeholders across value chains to build materials ecosystems to collect, reuse or recycle plastic waste. This, in turn, will enable Dow to return more plastic waste into the circular system, and scale production of circular and low-carbon emissions solutions. Since 2020, Dow has invested more than $200 million into impact funds, recycling infrastructure, venture capital, research and development and key technologies to transform waste into solutions that support a circular economy. Dow is catalyzing a circular economy for plastics through global partnerships with non-governmental organizations and investors, such as the Alliance to End Plastic Waste, The Recycling Partnership, Circulate Capital, Closed Loop Partners and Lombard Odier Global Plastic Circularity Fund. Additionally, Dow is making progress on its Transform the Waste target through several recently announced circular and renewable offtake agreements and projects that will help contribute to achieving the new target. See Item 1. Business for updates on these investments, partnerships and projects. In support of, and in collaboration with, value chain partners and customers, Dow is aligning its innovation and application development programs so its products are recycle-ready at the outset or enable circularity in customers’ products and processes. Designing for circularity at the molecular level expands the possibilities for recycling across a variety of applications, and ultimately lessens the environmental impact of Dow's customers’ products. Dow's efforts under Transform the Waste expand beyond packaging. In 2023, the Company launched and/or commercialized a number of other circular solutions like SPECFLEX C, a recycled polyurethane solution for the automotive sector and Propylene Glycol CIR. Developing Safer Materials How the Company manufactures, distributes and enables the proper use and disposal of its products can have a large and meaningful impact on the environment. Dow’s vision is a future where every material it brings to market is sustainable for the people and the planet. Dow is working to deliver that sustainable future through its materials science expertise and collaboration with its customers. By constantly innovating how it sources, manufactures and delivers material solutions, Dow helps customers achieve their goals and create a better tomorrow. Dow has an impact on safer materials directly through the manufacture and delivery of solutions and indirectly through the chemicals that are sourced. Dow is committed to demonstrating the value of chemistry and materials science to society and improving the way the world understands and considers science in decision-making to maximize benefits to businesses, society and the planet. Through Dow’s 2025 Safe Materials for a Sustainable Planet goal, the Company has made progress toward this vision by innovating sustainable materials of tomorrow, leading candid conversations about product safety and committing to the advancement of open and transparent chemistry with value chain partners, customers and the public. Environmental Remediation For comparison of environmental remediation-related matters for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, see Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022, filed with the SEC on February 1, 2023. The Company accrues the costs of remediation of its facilities and formerly owned facilities based on current law and regulatory requirements. The nature of such remediation can include management of soil and groundwater contamination. The accounting policies adopted to properly reflect the monetary impacts of environmental matters are discussed in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. To assess the impact on the financial statements, environmental experts review currently available facts to evaluate the probability and scope of potential liabilities. Inherent uncertainties exist in such evaluations primarily due to unknown environmental conditions, changing governmental regulations and legal standards regarding liability, and the ability to apply remediation technologies. These liabilities are adjusted periodically as remediation efforts progress or as additional technical or legal information becomes available. The Company had an accrued liability of $939 million at December 31, 2023, related to the remediation of current or former Dow-owned sites. At December 31, 2022, the liability related to remediation was $948 million. 54 In addition to current and former Dow-owned sites, under the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act ("CERCLA") and equivalent state laws (hereafter referred to collectively as "Superfund Law"), the Company is liable for remediation of other hazardous waste sites where the Company allegedly disposed of, or arranged for the treatment or disposal of, hazardous substances. Because Superfund Law imposes joint and several liability upon each party at a site, the Company has evaluated its potential liability in light of the number of other companies that have also been named potentially responsible parties (“PRPs”) at each site, the estimated apportionment of costs among all PRPs, and the financial ability and commitment of each to pay its expected share. The Company’s remaining liability for the remediation of Superfund sites was $241 million at December 31, 2023 ($244 million at December 31, 2022). The Company has not recorded any third-party recovery related to these sites as a receivable. Information regarding environmental sites is provided below: 1. Dow-owned sites are sites currently or formerly owned by the Company. In the United States, remediation obligations are imposed by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act or analogous state law. At December 31, 2023, 24 of these sites (24 sites at December 31, 2022) were formerly owned by Dowell Schlumberger, Inc., a group of companies in which the Company previously owned a 50 percent interest. The Company sold its interest in Dowell Schlumberger in 1992. 2. Superfund sites are sites, including sites not owned by the Company, where remediation obligations are imposed by Superfund Law. Additional information is provided below for the Company’s Midland, Michigan, manufacturing site and Midland off-site locations (collectively, the "Midland sites"), as well as a Superfund site in Wood-Ridge, New Jersey, the locations for which the Company has the largest potential environmental liabilities. In the early days of operations at the Midland manufacturing site, wastes were usually disposed of on-site, resulting in soil and groundwater contamination, which has been contained and managed on-site under a series of Resource Conservation and Recovery Act permits and regulatory agreements . The Hazardous Waste Operating License for the Midland manufacturing site, issued in 2003, and renewed and replaced in September 2015, also included provisions for the Company to conduct an investigation to determine the nature and extent of off-site contamination from historic Midland manufacturing site operations. In January 2010, the Company, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") and the State of Michigan ("State") entered into an Administrative Order on Consent that requires the Company to conduct a remedial investigation, a feasibility study and a remedial design for the Tittabawassee River, the Saginaw River and the Saginaw Bay, and pay the oversight costs of the EPA and the State under the authority of CERCLA. See Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information relating to Midland off-site environmental matters. Rohm and Haas, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, is a PRP at the Wood-Ridge, New Jersey, Ventron/Velsicol Superfund Site, and the adjacent Berry’s Creek Study Area ("BCSA") (collectively, the "Wood-Ridge sites"). Rohm and Haas is a successor in interest to a company that owned and operated a mercury processing facility, where wastewater and waste handling resulted in contamination of soils and adjacent creek sediments. In 2018, the Berry’s Creek Study Area Potentially Responsible Party Group (“PRP Group”), consisting of over 100 PRPs, completed a Remedial Investigation/Feasibility Study for the BCSA. During that time, the EPA concluded that an “iterative or adaptive approach” was appropriate for cleaning up the BCSA. Thus, each phase of remediation will be followed by a period of monitoring to assess its effectiveness and determine if there is a need for more work. In September 2018, the EPA signed a Record of Decision ("ROD 1") which describes the initial phase of the EPA’s plan to clean-up the BCSA. ROD 1 will remediate waterways and major tributaries in the most contaminated part of the BCSA. The PRP Group has signed agreements with the EPA to design the selected remedy. Although there is currently much uncertainty as to what will ultimately be required to remediate the BCSA and Rohm and Haas's share of these costs has yet to be determined, the range of activities that are required in the interim Record of Decision is known in general terms. The PRP Group has been approached by the EPA to convene discussions for the Remedial Action Consent Decree the EPA is preparing for the Berry’s Creek Site. The group submitted the 60 percent design for EPA review and has identified and contracted with a Remedial Action contractor to support completion of the 95 percent design. Allocation remains incomplete. 55 At December 31, 2023, the Company had accrued liabilities totaling $319 million ($339 million at December 31, 2022) for environmental remediation at the Midland and Wood-Ridge sites. In 2023, the Company spent $48 million ($37 million in 2022) for environmental remediation at the Midland and Wood-Ridge sites. In total, the Company’s accrued liability for probable environmental remediation and restoration costs was $1,180 million at December 31, 2023, compared with $1,192 million at December 31, 2022. This is management’s best estimate of the costs for remediation and restoration with respect to environmental matters for which the Company has accrued liabilities, although it is reasonably possible that the ultimate cost with respect to these particular matters could range up to approximately two times that amount. Consequently, it is reasonably possible that environmental remediation and restoration costs in excess of amounts accrued could have a material impact on the Company’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. It is the opinion of the Company’s management, however, that the possibility is remote that costs in excess of the range disclosed will have a material impact on the Company’s results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. The amounts charged to income on a pretax basis related to environmental remediation totaled $203 million in 2023 and $176 million in 2022. The amounts charged to income on a pretax basis related to operating the Company's current pollution abatement facilities, excluding internal recharges, totaled $758 million in 2023 and $773 million in 2022. Capital expenditures for environmental protection were $228 million in 2023 and $137 million in 2022. Asbestos-Related Matters of Union Carbide Corporation Union Carbide is and has been involved in a large number of asbestos-related suits filed primarily in state courts during the past four decades. These suits principally allege personal injury resulting from exposure to asbestos-containing products and frequently seek both actual and punitive damages. The alleged claims primarily relate to products that Union Carbide sold in the past, alleged exposure to asbestos-containing products located on Union Carbide’s premises, and Union Carbide’s responsibility for asbestos suits filed against a former Union Carbide subsidiary, Amchem. In many cases, plaintiffs are unable to demonstrate that they have suffered any compensable loss as a result of such exposure, or that injuries incurred in fact resulted from exposure to Union Carbide’s products. For comparison of asbestos-related matters of Union Carbide Corporation for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, see Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022, filed with the SEC on February 1, 2023. The table below provides information regarding asbestos-related claims pending against Union Carbide and Amchem based on criteria developed by Union Carbide and its external consultants: Plaintiffs’ lawyers often sue numerous defendants in individual lawsuits or on behalf of numerous claimants. As a result, the damages alleged are not expressly identified as to Union Carbide, Amchem or any other particular defendant, even when specific damages are alleged with respect to a specific disease or injury. For these reasons and based upon Union Carbide’s litigation and settlement experience, Union Carbide does not consider the damages alleged against Union Carbide and Amchem to be a meaningful factor in its determination of any potential asbestos-related liability. For additional information see Part I, Item 3. Legal Proceedings and Asbestos-Related Matters of Union Carbide Corporation in Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 56