********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

For a business as large and globally diverse as the Company, a wide range of factors could materially affect future developments and performance. In addition to the factors affecting specific business operations identified in connection with the description of these operations and the financial results of these operations elsewhere in this report and our other filings with the SEC, we believe the most significant risk factors affecting our business include the following: Business, Operational and Industry Risks The quick service restaurant pizza category and the food service and food delivery markets in general are highly competitive and such competition could adversely affect our operating results. In the U.S., we compete primarily against regional and local companies as well as national chains Pizza Hut ® , Papa John’s ® and Little Caesars Pizza ® . Internationally, we compete primarily with Pizza Hut ® , Papa John’s ® and country-specific national and local companies. We could experience increased competition from existing or new companies in the delivery and carryout pizza category that could create increasing pressures to grow our business in order to maintain our market share. Additionally, we face growing competition from the supermarket industry and meal kit and food delivery providers, with the improvement of prepared food and meal kit offerings, expansion in meal delivery platforms and services and the trend towards convergence in grocery, deli, retail and restaurant services. We also compete on a broader scale with quick service and other international, national, regional and local restaurants. Competition from order and delivery aggregators and other food delivery services has also increased in recent years and order and delivery aggregators have continued to grow in size and scale. The overall food service market, food delivery market and the quick service restaurant market are intensely competitive with respect to food quality, price, service, image, convenience and concept, and are often affected by changes in: We compete within the food service market and the quick service restaurant market not only for customers, but also for management and hourly employees, including store team members, drivers and qualified franchisees, as well as suitable real estate sites. Our supply chain segment is also subject to competition from outside suppliers. While substantially all U.S. franchisees purchased food, equipment and supplies from us in 2020, U.S. franchisees are not required to purchase food, equipment or supplies from us and they may choose to purchase from outside suppliers. If other suppliers who meet our qualification standards were to offer lower prices or better service to our franchisees for their ingredients and supplies and, as a result, our franchisees chose not to purchase from our U.S. supply chain centers, our financial condition, business and results of operations would be adversely affected. If we are unable to maintain our competitive position, we could experience downward pressure on prices, lower demand for our products, reduced margins, loss of management or hourly employees, disruption in our supply chain centers, the inability to take advantage of new business opportunities and the loss of market share, all of which would have an adverse effect on our operating results and could cause our stock price to decline. Worldwide economic activity has been and is expected to continue to be adversely affected by the COVID-19 pandemic, the scale and scope of which is ultimately unknown, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The global COVID-19 pandemic continues to impact worldwide economic activity. A public health pandemic such as COVID-19 poses the risk that we and/or our employees, franchisees, supply chain centers, suppliers, customers and other partners may be, or may continue to be, prevented from conducting business activities for an indefinite period of time, including due to shutdowns, travel restrictions, social distancing requirements, stay at home orders and advisories and other restrictions that have been or may be suggested or mandated by governmental authorities, or due to the impact of the disease itself on a business’ workforces. In addition, COVID-19 may impact the willingness of customers to purchase food prepared outside of the home. The COVID-19 pandemic may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks described throughout this report, including but not limited to those relating to our growth strategy, our supply chain and increased food and labor costs, disruption in operations, loss of key employees, our indebtedness, general economic conditions and our international operations. 11 In response to governmental requirements, we and our franchisees have implemented a number of measures, including, among others, temporarily closing certain of our stores, modifying certain stores’ hours and closing locations to in-store dining, and we continue to monitor additional developments. We have also made additional operating changes in response to changes in consumer behavior and preferences resulting from COVID-19, including offering contactless delivery and carryout options to our customers. While it is not possible at this time to estimate the full impact that COVID-19 could have on our business going forward, the continued spread of the virus and the measures taken in response have disrupted our operations and could disrupt our supply chain, including our access to face coverings for use in our operations, which could adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. The COVID-19 pandemic and mitigation measures have also had an adverse impact on global economic conditions, which could have an adverse effect on our business and financial condition. The Company’s sales and operating results may be affected by uncertain or changing economic and market conditions arising in connection with and in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, including inflation, deflation, prolonged weak consumer demand, political instability or other changes. While the Company has seen an increase in sales in certain markets, including within the U.S., during the COVID-19 pandemic, including increased sales related to heightened reliance on delivery and carry-out businesses, future sales are not possible to estimate and it is unclear whether and to what extent sales will return to more normalized levels if and when consumer behavior and general economic and business activity return to pre-pandemic levels. The significance of the operational and financial impact to the Company will depend on how long and widespread the disruptions caused by COVID-19, and the corresponding response to contain the virus and treat those affected by it, prove to be. If we fail to successfully implement our growth strategy, which includes opening new U.S. and international stores, our ability to increase our revenues and operating profits could be adversely affected. A significant component of our growth strategy includes the opening of new U.S. (both Company-owned as well as franchised stores) and international franchised stores. We and our franchisees face many challenges in opening new stores, including, among others: The opening of additional franchise stores also depends, in part, upon the availability of prospective franchisees who meet our criteria. Our failure to add a significant number of new stores would adversely affect our ability to increase revenues and operating income. Additionally, our growth strategy and the success of new stores depend in large part on the availability of suitable store sites. If we and our franchisees are not able to secure leases in desired locations on favorable terms, or to renew such leases, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected. We and our franchisees are currently planning to expand our U.S. and international operations in many of the markets where we currently operate and in select new markets. This may require considerable management time as well as start-up expenses for market development before any significant revenues and earnings are generated. Operations in new foreign markets may achieve low margins or may be unprofitable, and expansion in existing markets may be affected by local economic and market conditions. In addition, we expect to continue our strategy of building additional stores in markets and regions where we have existing stores, a strategy we refer to as “fortressing,” which may negatively impact sales at existing stores. Therefore, as we continue to expand, we or our franchisees may not experience the operating margins we expect, our results of operations may be negatively impacted, and our common stock price may decline. Additionally, we have an equity investment in Dash Brands Ltd. (“Dash Brands”), as further discussed elsewhere in this report. Through its subsidiaries, Dash Brands serves as the Company’s master franchisee in China that owns and operates Domino’s Pizza stores in that market. These types of investments are inherently risky. If Dash Brands does not succeed or is unable to successfully execute its growth strategy, we may be forced to record impairment charges and could lose some or all of our investment. We may also pursue strategic acquisitions as part of our business. If we are able to identify acquisition candidates, such acquisitions may be financed, to the extent permitted under our debt agreements, with substantial debt or with potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities. 12 The food service market is affected by consumer preferences and perceptions. Changes in these preferences and perceptions may reduce the demand for our products, which would reduce sales and harm our business. Food service businesses are affected by changes in consumer tastes, international, national, regional and local economic conditions, marketing, advertising, pricing, including discounting, and demographic trends. For instance, if prevailing health or dietary preferences cause consumers to avoid pizza and other products we offer in favor of foods that are perceived as healthier, our business and operating results would be harmed. Moreover, because we are primarily dependent on a single product, if consumer demand for pizza should decrease, our business would suffer more than if we had a more diversified menu, as many other food service businesses do. The preferences of customers also may change as a result of advances in technology or alternative delivery methods or channels. If we are not able to respond to these changes, or our competitors respond to these changes more effectively, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Reports of food-borne illness or food tampering could reduce sales and harm our business. Reports, whether true or not, of food-borne illnesses (such as E. coli, avian flu, bovine spongiform encephalopathy, hepatitis A, trichinosis or salmonella) and injuries caused by food tampering have in the past severely injured the reputations of participants in the quick service restaurant market and could in the future as well. The potential for acts of terrorism affecting our global food supply also exists and, if such an event occurs, could have a negative impact on us and could severely hurt sales and profits. In addition, our reputation is an important asset; as a result, anything that damages our reputation could immediately and severely affect our sales and profits. Media reports of illnesses and injuries, whether accurate or not, could force some stores to close or otherwise reduce sales at such stores. Moreover, as described above, social media has dramatically increased the rate at which negative publicity, including as it relates to food-borne illness, can be disseminated before there is any meaningful opportunity to respond to or address an issue. Even reports of food-borne illnesses or food tampering occurring solely at the restaurants of competitors could, by resulting in negative publicity about the restaurant industry in general, adversely affect us on a local, regional, national or international basis. Further, the occurrence of a widespread illness, health epidemic or pandemic, such as COVID-19, or other general health concern could adversely affect us on a local, regional or international basis. A decrease in global retail sales as a result of these health concerns or negative publicity or as a result of the closure of any Domino’s stores could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We do not have long-term contracts with certain of our suppliers, and as a result they could seek to significantly increase prices or fail to deliver. We do not have long-term contracts or arrangements with certain of our suppliers. Although in the past we have not experienced significant problems with our suppliers, our suppliers may implement significant price increases or may not meet our requirements, including those that may result from increases in volume, in a timely fashion or at all. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on the ability of our supply chain centers to deliver necessary products to our stores and on our results of operations. Shortages, interruptions or disruptions in the supply or delivery of fresh food products could adversely affect our operating results. We and our franchisees are dependent on frequent deliveries of food products that meet our specifications. In addition, we have single suppliers or a limited number of suppliers for certain of our ingredients, including pizza cheese and meat toppings. While we believe there are adequate reserve quantities and potential alternative suppliers, shortages, interruptions or disruptions in the supply of food products caused by increased demand, capacity constraints, problems in production or distribution, product recalls, financial or other difficulties of suppliers, inclement weather or other conditions could adversely affect the availability, quality and cost of ingredients. We have in the past experienced disruptions within our supply chain resulting from, among other things, capacity, volume, staffing, operational and COVID-19-related challenges and may experience such supply chain disruptions again in the future, which could adversely affect our business and operational results. Additionally, the effects of climate change could increase the frequency and duration of weather impacts on our operations and could adversely affect our operating results. 13 Increases in food, labor and other costs could adversely affect our profitability and operating results. An increase in our operating costs could adversely affect our profitability and other operating results. Factors such as inflation, increased food costs, increased labor and employee health and benefit costs, increased rent costs and increased energy costs may adversely affect our operating costs. Most of the factors affecting costs are beyond our control and, in many cases, we may not be able to pass along these increased costs to our customers or franchisees. Most ingredients used in our pizza, particularly cheese, are subject to significant price fluctuations as a result of seasonality, weather, demand and other factors. For example, we have experienced increased volatility in prices for some ingredients during the COVID-19 pandemic, which may continue even if the pandemic recedes. Cheese is a significant cost to us, representing approximately 25% of the market basket purchased by our Company-owned stores. Additionally, while we strive to engage in a competitive bidding process for our ingredients, because certain of these ingredients, including meat products, may only be available from a limited number of vendors, we may not always be able to do so effectively. Furthermore, if we need to seek new suppliers, we may be subject to pricing or other terms less favorable to us than those reflected in our current supply arrangements. Labor costs are largely a function of the minimum wage for a majority of our store personnel and certain supply chain center personnel and, generally, are also a function of the availability of labor. Several jurisdictions in which we operate have recently approved minimum wage increases. Federal, state and local proposals that increase minimum wage requirements or mandate other employee matters could, to the extent implemented, materially increase our labor and other costs. As more jurisdictions implement minimum wage increases, we expect our labor costs will continue to increase. The advent of legislation aimed at predictive scheduling could impact labor for our stores and our franchisees’ stores. Additionally, while we do not currently have any unionized employees, if a significant portion of our employees were to become unionized, our labor costs could increase and our business could be negatively affected by other union requirements that increase our costs, disrupt our business, reduce our flexibility and impact our employee culture. Labor costs and food costs, including cheese, generally represent approximately 50% to 60% of the sales at a typical Company-owned store. Any prolonged disruption in the operations of any of our dough manufacturing and supply chain centers could harm our business. We operate 21 regional dough manufacturing and supply chain centers in the U.S., two thin crust manufacturing facilities and one vegetable processing center in the U.S. and five dough manufacturing and supply chain centers in Canada. We plan to continue investing in additional supply chain capacity in the future. Our U.S. dough manufacturing and supply chain centers service all of our Company-owned and U.S. franchise stores. As a result, any prolonged disruption in the operations of any of these facilities, whether due to technical, operational or labor difficulties, destruction or damage to the facility, real estate issues, limited capacity or other reasons, could adversely affect our business and operating results. Our inability or failure to recognize, respond to and effectively manage the accelerated impact of social media could adversely impact our business. The use of social media platforms, including blogs, chat platforms, social media websites, and other forms of internet-based communications that allow individuals access to a broad audience of consumers and other persons, including to our customers and the general public, and other consumer-oriented technologies has increased the speed and accessibility of information dissemination and given users the ability to more effectively organize collective actions such as boycotts and other brand-damaging behaviors. Negative publicity related to our food products or stores or negative publicity related to actions by our executives, team members or franchisees and their team members could harm our business, brand, reputation, marketing partners, financial condition, and results of operations, regardless of the accuracy of such negative publicity. Failure to use or respond to social media campaigns effectively could lead to a decline in brand value and revenue. In addition, a failure of us, our employees, our franchisees or third parties acting at our direction to abide by applicable laws and regulations in the use of social media could adversely impact our brand, reputation, marketing partners, financial condition, and results of operations or subject us or our franchisees to fines or other penalties. Other risks associated with the use of social media include improper disclosure of proprietary information, exposure of personally identifiable information, fraud, hoaxes or malicious dissemination of false information. 14 Our success depends in part upon effective advertising, and lower advertising funds may reduce our ability to adequately market the Domino’s Pizza brand. We have been routinely named a Leading National Advertiser by Advertising Age and our success depends in part on continued effective advertising. Each Domino’s store located in the U.S. is obligated to contribute 6% of its sales (subject, in certain instances, to lower rates based on certain incentives and waivers) to DNAF, which uses such fees for national advertising in addition to contributions for local market-level advertising. We currently anticipate that this 6% contribution rate will remain in place for the foreseeable future. While additional funds for advertising in the past have been provided by us, our franchisees and other third parties, none of these additional funds are legally required. The lack of continued financial support for advertising activities could significantly curtail our marketing efforts, which may in turn materially and adversely affect our business and our operating results. Loss of key employees or our inability to attract and retain new qualified employees could hurt our business and inhibit our ability to operate and grow successfully. Our success in the highly competitive pizza delivery and carryout business will continue to depend to a significant extent on our leadership team and other key management personnel. Although we have entered into employment agreements with Richard E. Allison Jr. and Russell J. Weiner, each of these executives may terminate his agreement on ninety days’ notice. Our other executive officers may terminate their employment pursuant to their employment agreements at any time. As a result, we may not be able to retain our executive officers and key personnel or attract additional qualified management. While we do not have long-term employment agreements with our executive officers, for all of our executive officers we have non-compete and non-solicitation agreements that extend for 24 months following the termination of such executive officer’s employment. Our success will also continue to depend on our ability to attract and retain qualified personnel to operate our stores, dough manufacturing and supply chain centers and international operations. The loss of these employees or our inability to recruit and retain qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Our international operations subject us to additional risk. Such risks and costs may differ in each country in which we and our franchisees do business and may cause our profitability to decline due to increased costs. We conduct a significant and growing portion of our business outside the U.S. Our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected if global markets in which our franchise stores compete are affected by changes in political, economic or other factors. These factors, over which neither we nor our franchisees have control, may include: Our earnings and business growth strategy depend on the success of our franchisees, and we may be harmed by actions taken by our franchisees, or employees of our franchisees, that are outside of our control. A significant portion of our earnings comes from royalties and fees generated by our franchise stores. Franchisees are independent operators, and their employees are not our employees. We provide tools that franchisees can consider using in training their employees, but the quality of franchise store operations and our brand and branded products may be diminished by any number of factors beyond our control. Consequently, franchisees may not operate stores in a manner consistent with our standards and requirements or they or their employees may take other actions that adversely affect the value of our brand. In such event, our business and reputation may suffer, and as a result our revenues and stock price could decline. 15 While we try to ensure that franchisees maintain the quality of the Domino’s brand and branded products and comply with their franchise agreements, franchisees may take actions that adversely affect the value of our intellectual property or reputation or that are inconsistent with their contractual obligations. Although our franchise arrangements permit the applicable franchisor to terminate a franchise agreement under certain circumstances, including the failure by franchisees to uphold quality standards, there can be no assurance that such remedy will be available or sufficient to prevent harm to our brand and protect our intellectual property. As of January 3, 2021, we had 762 U.S. franchisees operating 5,992 U.S. stores. As of that same date, 19 of these franchisees each owned and operated more than 50 U.S. stores, including our largest U.S. franchisee who owned and operated 178 stores and the average U.S. franchisee owned and operated approximately seven stores. Our international master franchisees are generally responsible for the development of significantly more stores than our U.S. franchisees. As a result, our international operations are more closely tied to the success of a smaller number of franchisees than our U.S. operations. As of January 3, 2021, our largest international master franchisee operated 2,797 stores in nine markets, which accounted for approximately 25% of our total international store count. Our U.S. and international franchisees may not operate their franchises successfully. If one or more of our key franchisees were to become insolvent or otherwise were unable or unwilling to pay us our royalties or other amounts owed, our business and results of operations would be adversely affected. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could harm the value of our brand and branded products and adversely affect our business. We depend in large part on our brand and branded products and believe that they are very important to our business. We rely on a combination of trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and similar intellectual property rights to protect our brand and branded products. The success of our business depends on our continued ability to use our existing trademarks in order to capitalize on our name recognition, increase brand awareness and further develop our branded products in both U.S. and international markets. We have registered certain trademarks and have other trademark applications pending in the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions. Not all of the trademarks that we currently use have been registered in all of the countries in which we do business, and they may never be registered in all of these countries. Some countries’ laws do not protect unregistered trademarks at all, or make them more difficult to enforce, and third parties may have filed for “Domino’s” or similar marks in countries where Domino’s has not registered its brand. Accordingly, we may not be able to adequately protect our trademarks everywhere in the world and our use of these trademarks may result in liability for trademark infringement, trademark dilution or unfair competition. All of the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property in the U.S. and in foreign countries may not be adequate. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. We may, from time to time, be required to institute or defend litigation to enforce our trademarks or other intellectual property rights, or to protect our trade secrets. Such litigation could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could negatively affect our sales, profitability and prospects regardless of whether we are able to successfully enforce our rights. The occurrence of cyber incidents, or a deficiency in cybersecurity, could negatively impact our business by causing a disruption to our operations, a compromise or corruption of confidential information, or damage to our employee and business relationships, any of which could subject us to loss and harm our brand. A cyber incident is considered to be any adverse event that threatens the confidentiality, integrity or availability of information resources. More specifically, a cyber incident is an intentional attack or an unintentional event that can include gaining unauthorized access to systems to disrupt operations, corrupt data or steal confidential information about customers, franchisees, suppliers or employees. A number of retailers and other companies have recently experienced serious cyber incidents and breaches of their information technology systems. As our reliance on technology has increased, so have the risks posed to our systems, both internal and those we have outsourced. We could also be subject to negative impacts to our business caused by cyber incidents relating to our third-party service providers. The three primary risks that could directly result from the occurrence of a cyber incident include operational interruption, damage to our relationships with customers, franchisees and employees and private data exposure, including payment card or other financial data. In addition to maintaining insurance coverage to address cyber incidents, we have also implemented processes, procedures and controls to help mitigate these risks. However, our cyber insurance coverage may not fully cover all of the costs associated with a cyber incident and these measures, as well as our increased awareness of the risk of a cyber incident, do not guarantee that our reputation and financial results will not be materially and adversely affected by such an incident. 16 Our and our franchisees’ operations depend upon our ability and the ability of franchisees and third-party service providers (as well as franchisees’ third-party service providers), to protect computer equipment and systems against damage from theft, fire, power loss, telecommunications failure and other catastrophic or unanticipated events, as well as internal and external security incidents, viruses, denial-of-service attacks, phishing attacks, ransomware attacks and other intentional or unintentional disruptions. A significant portion of our retail sales depend on the continuing operation of our information technology and communications systems, including but not limited to Domino’s PULSE ™ , our online and mobile ordering platforms and our credit card processing systems. The failure of these systems to operate effectively, stemming from maintenance problems, upgrading or transitioning to new platforms, a compromise in our security or other unanticipated problems could result in interruptions to or delays in our and our franchisees’ operations. Some of our systems are not fully redundant, and our system’s disaster recovery planning cannot account for all eventualities. The occurrence of a natural disaster, intentional sabotage or other unanticipated problems could result in lengthy interruptions in service. In addition, the implementation of technology changes and upgrades to maintain and upgrade our systems, errors or vulnerabilities in our systems, or damage to or failure of our systems, could result in interruptions in our services and non-compliance with certain laws or regulations, which could reduce our sales, revenues and profits and damage our business and brand. Furthermore, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, certain of our employees have been required to work from home. The significant increase in remote working, particularly for an extended period of time, could exacerbate certain risks to our business, including an increased risk of cyber incidents and improper dissemination of personal or confidential information. Because we and our franchisees accept electronic forms of payment from customers, our business requires the collection and retention of customer data, including sensitive financial data and other personally identifiable information in various information systems that we and our franchisees maintain and in those maintained by third parties with whom we and our franchisees contract to provide payment processing. A weakness in such third party’s systems or software products may provide a mechanism for a cyber threat. In recent years, a significant number of companies have experienced security data breaches in which customer information was stolen through vendor access channels. While we select our third-party suppliers carefully, cyber-attacks and security data breaches at a payment processing contractor could compromise confidential information or adversely affect our ability to deliver products and services to our customers. These problems could negatively affect our results of operations, and remediation could result in significant, unplanned capital investments. We also maintain important internal Company data, such as personally identifiable information about our employees and franchisees and information relating to our operations. In addition, more than half of all global retail sales in 2020 were derived from digital channels, primarily through our online ordering website and mobile applications, where customers enter personally identifiable information that we retain. Our use and retention of personally identifiable information is regulated by foreign, federal and state laws and regulations, as well as by certain third-party agreements. For example, the European Union adopted a new regulation that became effective in May 2018, the European Union General Data Protection Regulation, and the State of California adopted the California Consumer Privacy Act that became effective on January 1, 2020, both of which require companies to meet new requirements regarding the handling of personal data. As privacy and information security laws and regulations change, we may incur additional costs to ensure that we remain in compliance with those laws and regulations. If our security and information systems are compromised or if we, our employees or franchisees fail to comply with these laws, regulations or contract terms, or to successfully implement appropriate processes related to applicable requirements, laws and regulations governing cyber incidents could require us to notify customers, employees or other groups, and could result in adverse publicity, loss of sales and cash flows, increased fees payable to third parties and fines, penalties or remediation and other costs that could adversely affect our reputation, business and results of operations. Any other material disruption or other adverse event affecting one or more of our digital ordering platforms, including, for instance, power loss, technological failures, user error or cyber-attacks, could similarly result in adverse publicity, loss of sales and cash flows and other costs, which could in turn materially and adversely affect our reputation, business and results of operations. We cannot predict the impact that new or improved technologies, alternative methods of delivery, including autonomous vehicle delivery, or changes in consumer behavior facilitated by these technologies and alternative methods of delivery will have on our business. Advances in technologies or alternative methods of delivery, including advances in digital ordering technology, or certain changes in consumer behavior driven by these or other technologies and methods of delivery could have a negative effect on our business and market position. Moreover, technology and consumer offerings continue to develop, and we expect that new or enhanced technologies and consumer offerings will be available in the future. We may pursue certain of those technologies and consumer offerings if we believe they offer a sustainable customer proposition and can be successfully integrated into our business model. However, we cannot predict consumer acceptance of these delivery channels or their impact on our business. 17 In addition, our competitors, some of whom have greater resources (financial or otherwise) than we do, may be able to benefit from changes in technologies or consumer acceptance of alternative methods of delivery, which could harm our competitive position. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully respond to changing consumer preferences, including with respect to new technologies and alternative methods of delivery, or to effectively adjust our product mix, service offerings, and marketing and merchandising initiatives for products and services that address, and anticipate advances in, technology and market trends. If we are not able to successfully respond to these challenges, our business, market share, financial condition, and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. We are subject to a variety of additional risks associated with our franchisees. Our franchise system subjects us to a number of additional risks, any one of which may impact our ability to collect royalty payments and fees from our franchisees, may harm the goodwill associated with our brand, and/or may materially and adversely impact our business and results of operations. Such risks may also apply to us as owners of stores. These risks include, but are not limited to: We are subject to a number of risks related to credit card and debit card payments we accept. As store operators, we and our franchisees accept payments through credit card and debit card transactions. For credit card and debit card payments, we and our franchisees pay interchange and other fees, which may increase over time, potentially increasing our operating expenses and those of our franchisees and requiring an increase in the prices charged for our products, either of which could harm our operating results. If there are malfunctions or other problems with our or our franchisees’ processing vendors, billing software or payment processing systems, our or our franchisees’ customer satisfaction may be adversely affected and one or more of the major payment networks could disallow us or our franchisees’ continued use of their payment methods. If we or our franchisees fail to adequately control fraudulent credit card and debit card transactions or to comply with the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards, we or our franchisees may face civil liability, diminished public perception of our or their security measures, fines and assessments from the card brands, and significantly higher credit card and debit card related costs, each of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 18 The termination of our ability to process payments through any major payment network would significantly impair our ability to operate our business. We and our franchisees may need to expand or change our or their information systems to support different or emerging forms of payment methods, which may be time-consuming and expensive, and we or they may not realize a return on the investment. Our current insurance coverage may not be adequate, insurance premiums for such coverage may increase and we may not be able to obtain insurance at acceptable rates, or at all. For certain periods prior to December 1998 and for periods after December 2001, we maintain insurance coverage for workers’ compensation, general liability and owned and non-owned automobile liabilities. We are generally responsible for up to $2.0 million per occurrence under these retention programs for workers’ compensation and general liability, depending on policy year and line of coverage. We are generally responsible for up to between $500,000 and $5.5 million per occurrence under these retention programs for owned and non-owned automobile liabilities, depending on policy year and line of coverage. Total insurance limits under these retention programs vary depending upon the period covered and range up to $110.0 million per occurrence for general liability and owned and non-owned automobile liabilities and up to the applicable statutory limits for workers’ compensation. These insurance policies may not be adequate to protect us from liabilities that we incur in our business. In addition, in the future our insurance premiums may increase, and we may not be able to obtain similar levels of insurance on reasonable terms, or at all. Any such inadequacy of, or inability to obtain insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our business and limit our ability to plan for or respond to changes in our business. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness. As of January 3, 2021, our consolidated total indebtedness was approximately $4.12 billion. We may also incur additional debt, which would not be prohibited under the terms of our current securitized debt agreements. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences for our business and our shareholders. For example, it could: Further, a portion of our indebtedness bears interest at fluctuating interest rates based on the London interbank offered rate (“LIBOR”), and there is currently uncertainty around whether LIBOR will continue to exist after 2021. If LIBOR ceases to exist, we may need to renegotiate certain loan documents and we cannot predict what alternative index would be negotiated with our lenders. As a result, our interest expense could increase, in which event we may have difficulties making interest payments and funding our other fixed costs, and our available cash flow for general corporate requirements may be adversely affected. The U.S. Federal Reserve, in conjunction with the Alternative Reference Rates Committee, a steering committee comprised of large U.S. financial institutions, is considering replacing LIBOR with a new index calculated by short-term repurchase agreements, backed by Treasury securities called the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (“SOFR”). The first publication of SOFR was released in April 2018. Whether or not SOFR attains market traction as a LIBOR replacement remains a question and the future of LIBOR at this time is uncertain. In addition, the financial and other covenants we agreed to with our lenders may limit our ability to incur additional indebtedness, make investments, pay dividends and engage in other transactions, and the leverage may cause potential lenders to be less willing to loan funds to us in the future. Our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of repayment of all of our indebtedness. Downgrades in our credit ratings could impact our ability to access capital and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our debt is rated by credit rating agencies. These agencies may downgrade their credit ratings for us based on the performance of our business, our capital strategies or their overall view of our industry. There can be no assurance that any rating assigned to our currently outstanding indebtedness will remain in effect for any given period of time or that any such ratings will not be lowered, suspended or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in that agency’s judgment, circumstances so warrant. 19 A downgrade of our credit ratings could, among other things, increase our cost of borrowing, limit our ability to access capital, result in more restrictive covenants in agreements governing the terms of any future indebtedness that we may incur, including restrictions on our ability to pay dividends or repurchase shares, or require us to provide collateral for future borrowings, and thereby adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be unable to generate sufficient cash flow to satisfy our significant debt service obligations, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our ability to make principal and interest payments on and to refinance our indebtedness will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. If our business does not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, in the amounts projected or at all, or if future borrowings are not available to us under our variable funding notes in amounts sufficient to fund our other liquidity needs, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. If we cannot generate sufficient cash flow from operations to make scheduled principal amortization and interest payments on our debt obligations in the future, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity, sell assets, delay capital expenditures or seek additional equity. If we are unable to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all or to affect any other action relating to our indebtedness on satisfactory terms or at all, our business may be harmed. The terms of our securitized debt financing of certain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries have restrictive terms and our failure to comply with any of these terms could put us in default, which would have an adverse effect on our business and prospects. Unless and until we repay all outstanding borrowings under our securitized debt, we will remain subject to the restrictive terms of these borrowings. The securitized debt, under which certain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries issued and guaranteed fixed rate notes and variable funding senior revolving notes, contain a number of covenants, with the most significant financial covenant being a debt service coverage calculation. These covenants limit the ability of certain of our subsidiaries to, among other things: The securitized debt also requires us to maintain specified financial ratios at the end of each fiscal quarter. These restrictions could affect our ability to pay dividends or repurchase shares of our common stock. Our ability to meet these financial ratios can be affected by events beyond our control, and we may not satisfy such a test. A breach of this covenant could result in a rapid amortization event or default under the securitized debt. If amounts owed under the securitized debt are accelerated because of a default under the securitized debt and we are unable to pay such amounts, the investors may have the right to assume control of substantially all of the securitized assets. During the term following issuance, the outstanding senior notes will accrue interest in accordance with the terms of the debt agreements. Additionally, our senior notes have original scheduled principal payments of $42.0 million in 2021, $897.0 million in 2022, $33.0 million in each of 2023 and 2024, $1.15 billion in 2025, $20.8 million in 2026, $1.28 billion in 2027, $6.8 million in 2028 and $614.3 million in 2029. In accordance with our debt agreements, the payment of principal on the outstanding senior notes may be suspended if the leverage ratios for the Company are less than or equal to 5.0x total debt, as defined, to adjusted EBITDA, as defined in the indenture governing our securitized debt, and no catch-up provisions are applicable. As of the fourth quarter of 2020, we met the leverage ratio of less than 5.0x and, in accordance with our debt agreements, did not make the previously scheduled debt payments beginning in the first quarter of 2021. If we are unable to refinance or repay amounts under the securitized debt prior to the expiration of the term, our cash flow would be directed to the repayment of the securitized debt and, other than a weekly management fee sufficient to cover minimal selling, general and administrative expenses, would not be available for operating our business. No assurance can be given that any refinancing or additional financing will be possible when needed or that we will be able to negotiate acceptable terms. In addition, our access to capital is affected by prevailing conditions in the financial and capital markets and other factors beyond our control. There can be no assurance that market conditions will be favorable at the times that we require new or additional financing. 20 The indenture governing the securitized debt will restrict the cash flow from the entities subject to the securitization to any of our other entities and upon the occurrence of certain events, cash flow would be further restricted. In the event that a rapid amortization event occurs under the indenture (including, without limitation, upon an event of default under the indenture or the failure to repay the securitized debt at the end of its term), the funds available to us would be reduced or eliminated, which would in turn reduce our ability to operate or grow our business. Regulatory, Legal and Compliance Risks We face risks of litigation, investigations, enforcement actions and negative publicity from customers, franchisees, suppliers, employees, regulators and others in the ordinary course of business, which could divert our financial and management resources. Litigation, investigations, enforcement actions or publicity may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Claims of illness or injury relating to food quality or food handling are common in the food service industry, and vehicular accidents and injuries occur in the food delivery business. We are currently subject to these types of claims and have been subject to these types of claims in the past. Claims within our industry of improper supplier actions also occasionally arise that, if made against one of our suppliers, could potentially damage our brand image. In addition, class action lawsuits have been filed, and may continue to be filed, against various quick service restaurants alleging, among other things, that quick service restaurants have failed to disclose the health risks associated with high-fat foods and that quick service restaurant marketing practices have encouraged obesity. State attorney general offices or other regulators have initiated and may in the future initiate investigations or enforcement actions against us. In addition to decreasing our sales and profitability and diverting our management resources, adverse publicity resulting from such allegations may materially and adversely affect us and our brand, regardless of whether such allegations are valid or whether we are liable, and could result in a substantial settlement, fine, penalty or judgment against us. Further, we may be subject to employee, franchisee and other claims in the future based on, among other things, discrimination, harassment, working and safety conditions, wrongful termination and wage, expense reimbursement, rest break and meal break issues, including claims relating to overtime compensation. We have been and continue to be subject to these types of claims. If one or more of these claims were to be successful or if there is a significant increase in the number of these claims or if we receive significant negative publicity, our business, financial condition and operating results could be harmed. We and our franchisees are subject to extensive government regulation and requirements issued by other groups and our failure to comply with existing or increased regulations could adversely affect our business and operating results. We are subject to numerous federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations, as well as requirements issued by other groups, including those relating to: We are subject to an FTC rule and to various state and foreign laws that govern the offer and sale of franchises. These laws regulate various aspects of the franchise relationship, including terminations and the refusal to renew franchises. The failure to comply with these laws and regulations in any jurisdiction or to obtain required government approvals could result in a ban or temporary suspension on future franchise sales, fines or other penalties or require us to make offers of rescission or restitution, any of which could adversely affect our business and operating results. 21 In August 2015, the National Labor Relations Board adopted a new and broader standard for determining when two or more otherwise unrelated employers may be found to be a joint employer of the same employees under the National Labor Relations Act. The National Labor Relations Board issued a final rule which became effective April 27, 2020 that reinstates the standard that was in place before August 2015. In December 2019, the National Labor Relations Board directed an administrative law judge to approve settlement agreements (rather than rejecting the settlement and allowing the claims asserting that the franchisor should be the joint employer of its franchisees’ employees to proceed) in a decision related to another franchise system; however, an appeal of that decision is pending. If the August 2015 standard is restored or is adopted by other government agencies and/or applied generally to franchise relationships, it could cause us to be liable or held responsible for unfair labor practices and other violations of our franchisees and subject us to other liabilities, and require us to conduct collective bargaining negotiations regarding employees of totally separate, independent employers, most notably our franchisees. In such event, our operating expenses may increase as a result of required modifications to our business practices, increased litigation, governmental investigations or proceedings, administrative enforcement actions, fines and civil liability. Additionally, depending upon legal developments in California, franchisors may be subject to claims that their franchisees should be treated as employees and not as independent contractors in California and, potentially, certain other states and localities with similar employment laws. If such misclassification claims are successful against a franchisor, the franchisor could be liable to its franchisees (and potentially their employees) and, thereafter, have to treat its franchisees (and their employees) as the franchisor’s employees under these laws. We and our franchisees are subject to the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as amended (the “Fair Labor Standards Act”), which, along with the Family and Medical Leave Act, governs such matters as minimum wage and overtime requirements and other working conditions and various family leave mandates, as well as a variety of other laws enacted, or rules and regulations promulgated, by federal, state and local governmental authorities that govern these and other employment matters. We and our franchisees have experienced and expect further increases in payroll expenses as a result of government-mandated increases in the minimum wage, and although such increases are not currently expected to be material, there may be material increases in the future. Enactment and enforcement of various federal, state and local laws, rules and regulations on immigration and labor organizations may adversely impact the availability and costs of labor for Domino’s and franchisees’ stores in a particular area or across the United States. In addition, third-party suppliers may be affected by higher minimum wage standards, which may increase the price of goods and services they supply to us. Such increased expenses may cause our franchisees to exit the business or cause us to reduce the number of company-owned stores, or otherwise adversely affect the amount of royalty payments and license fees we receive. On January 12, 2020, the U.S. Department of Labor announced a final rule to update and clarify the definition of joint employer under the Fair Labor Standards Act. Under the final rule, the general test for assessing whether a party can be deemed a joint employer would be based upon whether that party (i) hires or fires the employee; (ii) supervises and controls the employee’s work schedule or conditions of employment; (iii) determines the employee’s rate and method of payment; and (iv) maintains the employee’s employment records. In the final rule, the Department of Labor describes instances in which joint employment would not be more or less likely to be found to exist under the Fair Labor Standards Act, which, according to the Department of Labor, includes the relationships that exist under the typical franchise business model. This rule may reduce a franchisor’s risk of liability that currently exists under the joint employer standard now in effect under the Fair Labor Standards Act (though ultimately, the facts specific to the franchisor-franchisee model at issue would be considered when determining liability). On September 8, 2020, a federal district court struck down a significant portion of the final rule, and an appeal of that decision is currently pending. However, the U.S. Department of Labor rule is separate from the joint employer standard under the National Labor Relations Act, the final rule issued by the National Labor Relations Board, and, as described above, potential liability as a joint employer under the National Labor Relations Act. Certain governmental authorities and private litigants have recently asserted claims against franchisors, including us, for provisions in our prior franchise agreements that restrict franchisees from soliciting or hiring the employees of other franchisees or the applicable franchisor. Claims against franchisors for such clauses include allegations that these clauses violate state and federal antitrust and unfair practices laws by restricting the free movement of employees of franchisees and/or franchisor (including the employees of company-owned stores), thereby depressing the wages of those employees. The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (as amended, the “Affordable Care Act”) requires employers such as us to provide health insurance for all qualifying employees or pay penalties for not providing coverage. The majority of the increases in these costs began in 2015, and while the incremental costs of this program have not been material to us to date, we cannot predict what effect these costs will have on our results of operations and financial position, or the effects of the Affordable Care Act on some of our larger franchisees. Modifications to, or repeal of, all or certain provisions of the Affordable Care Act are possible, consistent with statements made by certain elected officials. 22 Changes in tax laws or tax policy more broadly, increases in the enacted tax rates, adverse outcomes in connection with tax audits in any jurisdiction or any change in the pronouncements relating to accounting for income taxes could also impact our financial condition and results of operations. There also has been increased public focus, including by U.S. and foreign governmental authorities, on environmental sustainability matters, such as climate change, the reduction of greenhouse gases and water consumption. Legislative, regulatory or other efforts to combat climate change or other environmental concerns could result in future increases in taxes, restrictions on or increases in the costs of supplies, transportation and utilities, any of which could increase our operating costs and those of our franchisees, and necessitate future investments in facilities and equipment. These risks also include the increased pressure to make commitments, set targets, or establish additional goals to take actions to meet them, which could expose us and our franchisees to market, operational, execution and reputational costs or risks. We may also become subject to legislation or regulation seeking to tax and/or regulate high-fat foods, foods with high sugar and salt content, or foods otherwise deemed to be “unhealthy,” and our capital expenditures could increase due to remediation and compliance measures related to these laws or regulations. Adverse government regulations and enforcement efforts, including the examples mentioned above, or non-compliance by us or our franchisees with any of the foregoing laws and regulations could lead to various claims or governmental or judicial fines, sanctions or other enforcement measures, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Market and General Risks Adverse global economic conditions subject us to additional risk. Our financial condition and results of operations are impacted by global markets and economic conditions over which neither we nor our franchisees have control. An economic downturn, including deterioration in the economic conditions in the U.S. or international markets where we compete, may result in a reduction in the demand for our products, longer payment cycles, slower adoption of new technologies and increased price competition. Poor economic conditions may adversely affect the ability of our franchisees to pay royalties or amounts owed and could have a material adverse impact on our ability to pursue our growth strategy, which would reduce cash collections and in turn, may materially and adversely affect our ability to service our debt obligations. Fluctuations in the value of the U.S. dollar in relation to other currencies may lead to lower revenues and earnings. Exchange rate fluctuations could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. International franchise royalties and fees represented approximately 6.1% of our total revenues in 2020, 6.7% of our total revenues in 2019 and 6.5% of our total revenues in 2018, a majority of which were denominated in foreign currencies. We also operate dough manufacturing and distribution facilities in Canada, which generate revenues denominated in Canadian dollars. Sales made by franchise stores outside the U.S. are denominated in the currency of the country in which the store is located, and this currency could become less valuable in U.S. dollars as a result of exchange rate fluctuations. Unfavorable currency fluctuations could lead to increased prices to customers outside the U.S. or lower profitability to our franchisees outside the U.S., or could result in lower revenues for us, on a U.S. dollar basis, from such customers and franchisees. A hypothetical 10% adverse change in the foreign currency rates in our international markets would have resulted in a negative impact on international royalty revenues of approximately $22.2 million in 2020. Our annual and quarterly financial results are subject to significant fluctuations depending on various factors, many of which are beyond our control, and if we fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts or investors, our share price may decline significantly or be subject to significant fluctuations. Our sales and operating results can vary significantly from quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year depending on various factors, many of which are beyond our control. These factors include, among other things: 23 As a result, our operational performance may decline quickly and significantly in response to changes in order patterns or rapid decreases in demand for our products. Any such decline may cause us and our franchisees to experience lower sales revenue. We anticipate that fluctuations in operating results will continue in the future, and such fluctuations may result in significant fluctuations or a significant decline in our share price. Actions of activist investors could negatively impact our business and the value of our stock price. Publicly-traded companies have increasingly become subject to activist investor campaigns. Responding to actions of an activist investor may be a significant distraction for our management and staff and could require us to expend significant time and resources, including legal fees and potential proxy solicitation expenses. Any of these conditions could materially adversely affect our financial performance.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

Overview Our fiscal year typically includes 52 weeks, comprised of three twelve-week quarters and one sixteen-week quarter. Every five or six years our fiscal year includes an extra (or 53 rd ) week in the fourth quarter. Fiscal 2020 consisted of 53 weeks and fiscal 2019 and 2018 each consisted of 52 weeks. In this section, we discuss the results of our operations for the year ended January 3, 2021 compared to the year ended December 29, 2019. For a discussion of the year ended December 29, 2019 compared to the year ended December 30, 2018, please refer to Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 29, 2019. Description of the Business Domino’s is the largest pizza company in the world based on global retail sales, with more than 17,600 locations in over 90 markets around the world. Founded in 1960, our roots are in convenient pizza delivery, while a significant amount of our sales also come from carryout customers. Although we are a highly-recognized global brand, we focus on serving neighborhoods locally through our large network of franchise owners and Company-owned stores. Our business model is straightforward: Domino’s stores handcraft and serve quality food at a competitive price, with easy ordering access and efficient service, enhanced by our technological innovations. Our hand-tossed dough is made fresh and distributed to stores around the world by us and our franchisees. Domino’s generates revenues and earnings by charging royalties and fees to our independent franchisees. We also generate revenues and earnings by selling food, equipment and supplies to franchisees primarily in the U.S. and Canada, and by operating a number of Company-owned stores in the U.S. Franchisees profit by selling pizza and other complementary items to their local customers. In our international markets, we generally grant geographical rights to the Domino’s Pizza brand to master franchisees. These master franchisees are charged with developing their geographical area, and they can profit by sub-franchising and selling food and equipment to those sub-franchisees, as well as by running pizza stores directly. Everyone in the system can benefit, including the end consumer, who can feed their family conveniently and economically. Our financial results are driven largely by retail sales at our franchise and Company-owned stores. Changes in retail sales are driven by changes in same store sales and store counts. We monitor both of these metrics very closely, as they directly impact our revenues and profits, and we strive to consistently increase both metrics. Retail sales drive royalty payments from franchisees, as well as Company-owned store and supply chain revenues. Retail sales are primarily impacted by the strength of the Domino’s Pizza ® brand, the results of our extensive advertising through various media channels, the impact of technological innovation and digital ordering, our ability to execute our strong and proven business model and the overall global economic environment. Our business model can yield strong returns for our franchise owners and our Company-owned stores. It can also yield significant cash flow to us, through a consistent franchise royalty payment and supply chain revenue stream, with moderate capital expenditures. We have historically returned cash to shareholders through dividend payments and share repurchases since becoming a publicly-traded company in 2004. These factors emphasize our focus on our stakeholders, including our customers, team members, franchisees, communities and shareholders. 27 Critical accounting policies and estimates The following discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based on our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The preparation of these financial statements requires our management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, our management evaluates its estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, long-lived assets, insurance and legal matters, share-based payments and income taxes. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from those estimates. Changes in our accounting policies and estimates could materially impact our results of operations and financial condition for any particular period. We believe that our most critical accounting policies and estimates are: Revenue recognition . We earn revenues through our network of U.S. Company-owned and franchised stores, dough manufacturing and supply chain centers and international operations. Retail sales from franchised stores are reported to us by our franchisees and are not included in our revenues. Retail sales from Company-owned stores and royalty revenues resulting from the retail sales from franchised stores are recognized as revenues when the items are delivered to or carried out by customers. Retail sales are generally reported, and the related royalties paid to us based on a percentage of retail sales, as specified in the related standard franchise agreement (generally 5.5% of U.S. franchise retail sales and were on average, 2.9% of international franchise retail sales in 2020). U.S. and international franchise fee revenue primarily relates to per-transaction technology fees that are recognized as the related sales occur. We also generate revenues from U.S. franchise advertising contributions to DNAF, our consolidated not-for-profit advertising fund (generally 6.0% of U.S. franchise retail sales). Although these revenues are restricted to be used only for advertising and promotional activities to benefit franchised stores, we have determined there are not performance obligations associated with the franchise advertising contributions received by DNAF that are separate from our U.S. royalty payment stream and as a result, these franchise contributions and the related expenses are presented gross in the consolidated statements of income. Revenues from Company-owned stores and revenues from franchised stores (including U.S. franchise royalties and fees and U.S. franchise advertising revenues) can fluctuate from time-to-time as a result of store count and sales level changes. Sales of food from our supply chain centers are recognized as revenues upon delivery of the food to franchisees, while sales of equipment and supplies are generally recognized as revenues upon shipment of the related products to franchisees. Long-lived assets. We record long-lived assets, including property, plant and equipment and capitalized software, at cost. For acquisitions of franchise operations, we estimate the fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired based on physical inspection of assets, historical experience and other information available to us regarding the acquisition. We depreciate and amortize long-lived assets using useful lives determined by us based on historical experience and other information available to us. We evaluate the potential impairment of long-lived assets at least annually or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable. Our evaluation is based on various analyses, including the projection of undiscounted cash flows. For Company-owned stores, we perform related impairment tests on an operating market basis, which we have determined to be the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of other cash flows. If the carrying amount of a long-lived asset exceeds the amount of the expected future undiscounted cash flows of that asset, we estimate the fair value of the asset. If the carrying amount of the asset exceeds the estimated fair value of the asset, an impairment loss is recognized, and the asset is written down to its estimated fair value. We have not made any significant changes in the methodology used to project the future market cash flows of Company-owned stores during the years presented. Same store sales fluctuations and the rates at which operating costs will fluctuate in the future are key factors in evaluating recoverability of the related assets. If our same store sales significantly decline or if operating costs increase and we are unable to recover these costs, the carrying value of our Company-owned stores, by market, may be unrecoverable and we may be required to recognize an impairment charge. Insurance and legal matters. We are a party to lawsuits and legal proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. Management closely monitors these legal matters and estimates the probable costs for the resolution of such matters. These estimates are primarily determined by consulting with both internal and external parties handling the matters and are based upon an analysis of potential results, assuming a combination of litigation and settlement strategies. Legal judgments can be volatile and difficult to predict. Accordingly, if our estimates relating to legal matters proved inaccurate for any reason, we may be required to increase or decrease the related expense in future periods. We had accruals for legal matters of approximately $1.3 million and $1.8 million at January 3, 2021 December 29, 2019, respectively. 28 For certain periods prior to December 1998 and for periods after December 2001, we maintain insurance coverage for workers’ compensation, general liability and owned and non-owned auto liabilities. We are generally responsible for up to $2.0 million per occurrence under these retention programs for workers’ compensation and general liability, depending on policy year and line of coverage. We are generally responsible for up to between $500,000 and $5.5 million per occurrence under these retention programs for owned and non-owned automobile liabilities, depending on policy year and line of coverage. The related insurance reserves are based on undiscounted independent actuarial estimates, which are based on historical information along with assumptions about future events. Analyses of historical trends and actuarial valuation methods are utilized to estimate the ultimate claim costs for claims incurred as of the balance sheet date and for claims incurred but not yet reported. When estimating these liabilities, several factors are considered, including the severity, duration and frequency of claims, legal cost associated with claims, healthcare trends and projected inflation. Our methodology for determining our exposure has remained consistent throughout the years presented. Management believes that the various assumptions developed, and actuarial methods used to determine our insurance reserves are reasonable and provide meaningful data that management uses to make its best estimate of our exposure to these risks. Changes in assumptions for such factors as medical costs and legal actions, as well as changes in actual experience, could cause our estimates to change in the near term which could result in an increase or decrease in the related expense in future periods. A 10% change in our insurance liability at January 3, 2021 would have affected our income before provision for income taxes by approximately $6.4 million in 2020. We had accruals for insurance matters of approximately $63.5 million and $58.4 million at January 3, 2021 and December 29, 2019, respectively. Share-based payments. We recognize compensation expense related to our share-based compensation arrangements over the requisite service period based on the grant date fair value of the awards. The grant date fair value of each restricted stock and performance-based restricted stock award is equal to the market price of our stock on the date of grant. The grant date fair value of each stock option award is estimated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. The pricing model requires assumptions, including the expected life of the stock option, the risk-free interest rate, the expected dividend yield and expected volatility of our stock over the expected life, which significantly impact the assumed fair value. We account for forfeitures as they occur. Additionally, our stock option, restricted stock and performance-based restricted stock arrangements provide for accelerated vesting and the ability to exercise during the remainder of the ten-year stock option life upon the retirement of individuals holding the awards who have achieved specified service and age requirements. Management believes that the methods and various assumptions used to determine compensation expense related to these arrangements are reasonable, but if the assumptions change significantly for future grants, share-based compensation expense will fluctuate in future years. Income taxes. We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax basis of assets and liabilities. We measure deferred tax assets and liabilities using current enacted tax rates that will apply in the years in which we expect the temporary differences to be recovered or paid. Judgment is required in determining the provision for income taxes, related reserves and deferred tax assets and liabilities. These include establishing a valuation allowance related to the ability to realize certain deferred tax assets, if necessary. On an ongoing basis, management will assess whether it remains more likely than not that the deferred tax assets will be realized. Our accounting for deferred tax assets and liabilities represents our best estimate of future events. Our deferred tax assets assume that we will generate sufficient taxable income in specific tax jurisdictions, based on our estimates and assumptions. Changes in our current estimates due to unanticipated events could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Fiscal 2020 Highlights During 2020, we experienced global retail sales growth and U.S. and international same store sales growth. We believe our commitment to value, convenience, quality and new products continues to keep consumers engaged with the brand. We launched three new products in the U.S., including new and improved chicken wings and the new chicken taco and cheeseburger specialty pizzas, each of which has been positively received by consumers. 29 We also continued our strong U.S. and international same store sales performance with 39 straight quarters of positive U.S. same store sales and 108 straight quarters of positive international same store sales. Beginning at the end of the first quarter of 2020, changes in consumer ordering behavior due to the COVID-19 pandemic resulted in a significant increase in U.S. same store sales. We did not experience significant temporary closures in our U.S. business. Additionally, our U.S. supply chain experienced higher volumes from the increases in U.S. store sales. The COVID-19 pandemic negatively impacted our international franchise revenues during the second quarter of 2020 due to temporary store closures in certain markets as well as changes in operating procedures and store hours resulting from actions taken to increase social distancing across our international franchise markets. In the third and fourth quarters of 2020, these negative impacts lessened due to the reopening and resumption of normal store hours at the majority of our international franchised stores that had been temporarily closed for portions of the second quarter. Our U.S. and international same store sales growth has also been pressured by our fortressing strategy, which includes increasing store concentration in certain markets where we compete, as well as from aggressive competitive activity. During 2020, we continued our global expansion with the opening of 624 net stores. We had 229 net stores open in the U.S and 395 net stores open internationally. Although 718 gross stores opened internationally, 323 stores closed, primarily in India and South Africa. The COVID-19 pandemic has had a negative impact on anticipated store openings in our international business to-date due to delays in approvals and government restrictions in certain of the markets that our master franchisees operate. We remained focused on improving the customer experience through our technology initiatives, including the recent launch of our GPS delivery tracking technology, which allows customers to monitor the progress of their food, from the preparation stages to the time it is in the oven, to the time it arrives at their doors. Additionally, in mid-2020, we launched a new way to order contactless carryout nationwide – via Domino’s Carside Delivery ™ , which customers can choose when placing a prepaid online order. Our emphasis on technological innovation helped the Domino’s system generate more than half of global retail sales from digital channels in 2020. Overall, we believe our global store growth, strong sales, emphasis on technology, operations and marketing initiatives have combined to strengthen our brand. Statistical Measures The tables below outline certain statistical measures we utilize to analyze our performance. This historical data is not necessarily indicative of results to be expected for any future period. Global Retail Sales Growth (excluding foreign currency impact) Global retail sales growth (excluding foreign currency impact) is a commonly used statistical measure in the quick-service restaurant industry that is important to understanding performance. Global retail sales growth refers to total worldwide retail sales at Company-owned and franchise stores. We believe global retail sales information is useful in analyzing revenues because franchisees pay royalties and, in the U.S., advertising fees that are based on a percentage of franchise retail sales. We review comparable industry global retail sales information to assess business trends and to track the growth of the Domino’s Pizza brand. In addition, supply chain revenues are directly impacted by changes in franchise retail sales in the U.S. and Canada. Retail sales for franchise stores are reported to us by our franchisees and are not included in our revenues. Global retail sales growth, excluding foreign currency impact, is calculated as the change of international local currency global retail sales against the comparable period of the prior year. Global retail sales growth in 2020 includes the favorable impact of the 53 rd week. 30 Same Store Sales Growth Same store sales growth is a commonly used statistical measure in the quick-service restaurant industry that is important to understanding performance. Same store sales growth is calculated for a given period by including only sales from stores that also had sales in the comparable weeks of both years. International same store sales growth is calculated similarly to U.S. same store sales growth. Changes in international same store sales are reported on a constant dollar basis which reflects changes in international local currency sales. The 53 rd week in fiscal 2020 had no impact on reported same store sales growth amounts. Store Growth Activity Store counts and net store growth are commonly used statistical measures in the quick-service restaurant industry that are important to understanding performance. Income Statement Data (tabular amounts in millions, except percentages) 31 2020 compared to 2019 (tabular amounts in millions, except percentages) Revenues Revenues primarily consist of retail sales from our Company-owned stores, advertising contributions, royalties and fees from our U.S. franchised stores, royalties and fees from our international franchised stores and sales of food, equipment and supplies from our supply chain centers to substantially all of our U.S. franchised stores and certain international franchised stores. Company-owned store and franchised store revenues may vary from period to period due to changes in store count mix. Supply chain revenues may vary significantly as a result of fluctuations in commodity prices as well as the mix of products we sell. Consolidated revenues increased $498.6 million, or 13.8%, in 2020, due primarily to higher U.S. retail sales, which resulted in higher supply chain and U.S. franchise revenues. The inclusion of the 53 rd week in 2020 also positively impacted revenues by an estimated $88.4 million. U.S. Company-owned stores revenues increased in 2020 due to same store sales growth, but were partially offset by lower revenues due to the sale of 59 Company-owned stores to certain of our existing U.S. franchisees during the second quarter of 2019 (the “2019 Store Sale”). These changes in revenues are described in more detail below. U.S. Stores Revenues U.S. Company-owned Stores Revenues from U.S. Company-owned store operations increased $32.0 million, or 7.1%, in 2020, due primarily to same store sales growth, as well as an estimated $10.6 million impact of the 53 rd week. The increase in revenues was partially offset by lower revenues resulting from the 2019 Store Sale. U.S. Company-owned same store sales increased 11.0% in 2020 and increased 2.8% in 2019. U.S. Franchise Royalties and Fees Revenues from U.S. franchise royalties and fees increased $74.7 million, or 17.4%, in 2020, due primarily to higher same store sales and an increase in the average number of U.S. franchised stores open during the period resulting from net store growth, as well as an estimated $11.4 million impact of the 53 rd week. U.S. franchise royalties were negatively impacted by approximately $3.0 million related to funding we provided to our franchisees for an effort to donate 10 million slices of pizza to people and organizations at the frontlines of the COVID-19 pandemic in the franchisees’ local communities. U.S. franchise same store sales increased 11.5% in 2020 and increased 3.2% in 2019. U.S. franchise royalties and fees further benefited from an increase in revenues from fees paid by franchisees for the use of our technology platforms. U.S. Franchise Advertising Revenues from U.S. franchise advertising increased $71.4 million, or 18.3%, in 2020, due primarily to higher same store sales and an increase in the average number of U.S. franchised stores open during the year resulting from net store growth, as well as an estimated $10.4 million impact of the 53 rd week. 32 Supply Chain Supply chain revenues increased $311.8 million, or 14.8%, in 2020, due primarily to higher volumes from increased orders resulting from U.S. franchise retail sales growth, as well as an estimated $49.6 million impact of the 53 rd week. Our market basket pricing to stores increased 2.2% during 2020, which resulted in an estimated $42.5 million increase in supply chain revenues. International Franchise Royalties and Fees Revenues from international franchise operations increased $8.8 million, or 3.6%, in 2020. This increase was due primarily to an estimated $6.4 million impact of the 53 rd week as well as same store sales growth and an increase in the average number of international franchised stores open during the period due to net store growth. Excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rates, international same store sales increased 4.4% in 2020 and increased 1.9% in 2019. The impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates negatively impacted revenue from international royalties and fees by approximately $3.9 million in 2020. Temporary store closures in certain markets and changes in operating procedures and store hours resulting from actions taken to increase social distancing across certain of the markets in which we operate, as well as targeted financial relief provided to certain of our master franchisees due to the COVID-19 pandemic, also had a negative impact on international franchise revenues in 2020. Cost of sales / Operating Margin Consolidated cost of sales consists primarily of U.S. Company-owned store and supply chain costs incurred to generate related revenues. Components of consolidated cost of sales primarily include food, labor, delivery and occupancy costs. We estimate the 53 rd week resulted in an increase of approximately $50.6 million on consolidated cost of sales. Consolidated operating margin (which we define as revenues less cost of sales) increased $192.0 million, or 13.7%, in 2020, due primarily to higher global franchise revenues and higher supply chain volumes, as well as an estimated $37.8 million impact of the 53 rd week. Franchise revenues do not have a cost of sales component, so changes in these revenues have a disproportionate effect on the operating margin. As a percentage of revenues, the consolidated operating margin decreased 0.1 percentage points in 2020. Company-owned store operating margin decreased 1.9 percentage points in 2020 and supply chain operating margin increased 0.1 percentage points in 2020. These changes in operating margin are more fully discussed below. U.S. Company-owned Stores Operating Margin U.S. Company-owned store operating margin (which does not include other store-level costs such as royalties and advertising) decreased $1.4 million, or 1.3%, in 2020, due primarily to higher labor costs, and to a lesser extent, higher food costs. Lower revenues resulting from the 2019 Store Sale also contributed to the decrease in U.S. Company-owned store operating margin. These decreases were partially offset by higher revenues resulting from higher same store sales, as well as an estimated $3.2 million impact of the 53 rd week. As a percentage of store revenues, the store operating margin decreased 1.9 percentage points in 2020. These changes in operating margin as a percentage of revenues are discussed in more detail below. 33 Supply Chain Operating Margin Supply chain operating margin increased $38.5 million, or 16.4%, in 2020, primarily driven by higher volumes from increased orders, as well as an estimated $6.4 million impact of the 53 rd week. As a percentage of supply chain revenues, the supply chain operating margin increased 0.1 percentage points in 2020, due primarily to lower delivery costs as a percentage of revenues as a result of leveraging of higher same store sales and lower fuel prices, partially offset by higher food costs. General and Administrative Expenses General and administrative expenses increased $24.3 million, or 6.4%, in 2020, driven primarily by higher variable performance-based compensation expense and professional fees, as well as an estimated $5.6 million impact of the 53 rd week. These increases were partially offset by lower travel expenses resulting from travel restrictions associated with the COVID-19 pandemic. U.S. Franchise Advertising Expenses U.S. franchise advertising expenses increased $71.4 million, or 18.3%, in 2020, due to higher U.S. franchise advertising revenue, including an estimated $10.4 million impact of the 53 rd week. U.S. franchise advertising costs are accrued and expensed when the related U.S. franchise advertising revenues are recognized, as our consolidated not-for-profit advertising fund is obligated to expend such revenues on advertising and these revenues cannot be used for general corporate purposes. Interest Expense, Net Interest expense, net, increased $23.7 million, or 16.1%, in 2020 driven primarily by higher average debt balances resulting from the 2019 Recapitalization and borrowings under the Company’s variable funding notes in 2020, as well as an estimated $2.6 million impact of the 53 rd week. Our weighted average borrowing rate decreased to 3.9% in 2020, from 4.1% in 2019, resulting from the lower interest rates on the debt outstanding in 2020 as compared to the same periods in 2019. Provision for Income Taxes Provision for income taxes decreased $18.1 million, or 22.1%, in 2020 and the effective tax rate decreased to 11.5% in 2020 as compared to 17.0% in 2019 due primarily to higher excess tax benefits on equity-based compensation, which are recorded as a reduction to the income tax provision. Excess tax benefits from equity-based compensation were $60.4 million in 2020 and were $25.7 million in 2019. The increase in excess tax benefits resulted from a significant increase in stock options exercised in 2020 as compared to 2019. The decrease in provision for income taxes was partially offset by higher pre-tax income and, to a lesser extent, an increase in the valuation allowance associated with foreign tax credits and interest deductibility in separately-filed states. We estimate the 53 rd week resulted in an increase of $4.0 million on the provision for income taxes. Segment Income We evaluate the performance of our reportable segments and allocate resources to them based on earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and other, referred to as Segment Income. Segment Income for each of our reportable segments is summarized in the table below. Other Segment Income primarily includes corporate administrative costs that are not allocable to an operating segment, including labor, computer expenses, professional fees, travel and entertainment, rent, insurance and other corporate administrative costs. 34 U.S. Stores U.S. stores Segment Income increased $73.4 million, or 20.3%, in 2020, primarily as a result of the increase in revenues from U.S. franchise royalties and fees of $74.7 million discussed above. U.S. franchise revenues do not have a cost of sales component, so changes in these revenues have a disproportionate effect on U.S. stores Segment Income. U.S. franchise advertising costs are accrued and expensed when the related U.S. franchise advertising revenues are recognized and have no impact on U.S. stores Segment Income. The increase in U.S. stores Segment Income was partially offset by the $1.4 million decrease in U.S. Company-owned store operating margin discussed above. Supply Chain Supply chain Segment Income increased $38.6 million, or 19.3%, in 2020, due primarily to the $38.5 million increase in operating margin described above. International Franchise International franchise Segment Income increased $10.3 million, or 5.5%, in 2020, due primarily to the $8.8 million increase in international franchise revenues discussed above. International franchise revenues do not have a cost of sales component, so changes in these revenues have a disproportionate effect on international franchise Segment Income. Lower travel expenses, primarily due to travel restrictions resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, also contributed to the increase in international franchise Segment Income. Other Other Segment Income decreased $16.6 million, or 45.1%, in 2020, due primarily to higher variable performance-based compensation expense. The decrease in Other Segment Income was partially offset by higher corporate administrative costs allocated to our segments as compared to 2019. The increase in allocated costs in 2020 was due primarily to higher investments in technological initiatives to support technology for our U.S. and international franchise stores. New Accounting Pronouncements The impact of new accounting pronouncements adopted and the estimated impact of new accounting pronouncements that we will adopt in future years is included in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. COVID-19 Impact As of January 3, 2021, nearly all of our U.S. stores were open, with stores deploying contactless delivery and carryout solutions. Based on information reported to us by our master franchisees, we estimate that as of January 3, 2021, there were fewer than 150 international stores temporarily closed. Given the market uncertainty arising from COVID-19, we took a precautionary measure and borrowed $158.0 million under our variable funding notes during the second quarter of 2020, which was fully repaid throughout the remainder of 2020. During the COVID-19 pandemic, we also made certain investments related to safety and cleaning equipment, enhanced sick pay and compensation for frontline team members and support for our franchisees and their communities. While we have seen an increase in sales in certain markets during the COVID-19 pandemic, including increased sales related to heightened reliance on delivery and carry-out businesses, future sales are not possible to estimate and it is unclear whether and to what extent sales will return to more normalized levels if and when consumer behavior and general economic and business activity return to pre-pandemic levels. While it is not possible at this time to estimate the full continued impact that COVID-19 could have on our business, the continued spread of COVID-19 and the measures taken by the governments of countries affected could disrupt our continuing operations and supply chain and, as a result, could adversely impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. 35 Liquidity and Capital Resources Historically, we have operated with minimal positive working capital or negative working capital, primarily because our receivable collection periods and inventory turn rates are faster than the normal payment terms on our current liabilities. We generally collect our receivables within three weeks from the date of the related sale and we generally experience multiple inventory turns per month. In addition, our sales are not typically seasonal, which further limits our working capital requirements. These factors, coupled with the use of our ongoing cash flows from operations to service our debt obligations, invest in our business, pay dividends and repurchase our common stock, reduce our working capital amounts. As of January 3, 2021, we had working capital of $174.6 million, excluding restricted cash and cash equivalents of $217.5 million, advertising fund assets, restricted, of $147.7 million and advertising fund liabilities of $141.2 million. Working capital includes total unrestricted cash and cash equivalents of $168.8 million. Our primary source of liquidity is cash flows from operations and availability of borrowings under our variable funding notes. During 2020, we experienced increases in both U.S. and international same store sales versus the comparable periods in the prior year. Additionally, our U.S. and international businesses grew store counts in 2020. These factors contributed to our continued ability to generate positive operating cash flows. The Company has a variable funding note facility which allows for advances of up to $200.0 million of Series 2019-1 Variable Funding Senior Secured Notes, Class A-1 Notes and certain other credit instruments, including letters of credit (the “2019 Variable Funding Notes”). The letters of credit are primarily related to our casualty insurance programs and certain supply chain center leases. Given the market uncertainty arising from COVID-19, we took a precautionary measure and borrowed $158.0 million under the 2019 Variable Funding Notes during the second quarter of 2020, which was fully repaid throughout the remainder of 2020. As of January 3, 2021, we had no outstanding borrowings and $157.5 million of available borrowing capacity under our 2019 Variable Funding Notes, net of letters of credit issued of $42.5 million. We expect to continue to use our unrestricted cash and cash equivalents, cash flows from operations, excess cash from our recapitalization transactions and available borrowings under our 2019 Variable Funding Notes to, among other things, fund working capital requirements, invest in our core business, service our indebtedness, pay dividends and repurchase our common stock. Our ability to continue to fund these items and continue to service our debt could be adversely affected by the occurrence of any of the events described in Item 1A. Risk Factors. There can be no assurance that our business will generate sufficient cash flows from operations or that future borrowings will be available under the 2019 Variable Funding Notes or otherwise to enable us to service our indebtedness, or to make anticipated capital expenditures. Our future operating performance and our ability to service, extend or refinance the 2019, 2018, 2017 and 2015 Notes and to service, extend or refinance the 2019 Variable Funding Notes will be subject to future economic conditions and to financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Restricted Cash As of January 3, 2021, we had approximately $177.1 million of restricted cash and cash equivalents held for future principal and interest payments and other working capital requirements of our asset-backed securitization structure, $39.6 million of restricted cash equivalents held in a three-month interest reserve as required by the related debt agreements and $0.8 million of other restricted cash for a total of $217.5 million of restricted cash and cash equivalents. As of January 3, 2021, we also held $115.9 million of advertising fund restricted cash and cash equivalents, which can only be used for activities that promote the Domino’s brand. Long-Term Debt 2019 Recapitalization On November 19, 2019, we completed the 2019 Recapitalization in which certain of our subsidiaries issued $675.0 million Series 2019-1 3.668% Fixed Rate Senior Secured Notes, Class A-2 with an anticipated term of 10 years (the “2019 Fixed Rate Notes”) pursuant to an asset-backed securitization. Concurrently, we also issued the 2019 Variable Funding Notes. Our previous variable funding note facility was canceled. Gross proceeds from the issuance of the 2019 Fixed Rate Notes was $675.0 million. Additional information related to the 2019 Recapitalization transaction is included in Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements. The proceeds from the 2019 Recapitalization were used to pre-fund a portion of the principal and interest payable on the 2019 Fixed Rate Notes, pay transaction fees and expenses and repurchase and retire shares of our common stock. In connection with the 2019 Recapitalization, we capitalized $8.1 million of debt issuance costs, which are being amortized into interest expense over the expected term of the 2019 Fixed Rate Notes. 36 2018 Recapitalization On April 24, 2018, we completed the 2018 Recapitalization in which certain of our subsidiaries issued notes pursuant to an asset-backed securitization. The notes consisted of $425.0 million Series 2018-1 4.116% Fixed Rate Senior Secured Notes, Class A-2-I with an anticipated term of 7.5 years (the “2018 7.5-Year Fixed Rate Notes”), and $400.0 million Series 2018-1 4.328% Fixed Rate Senior Secured Notes, Class A-2-II with an anticipated term of 9.25 years (the “2018 9.25-Year Fixed Rate Notes” and, collectively with the 2018 7.5-Year Fixed Rate Notes, the “2018 Notes”) in an offering exempt from registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Gross proceeds from the issuance of the 2018 Notes were $825.0 million. Additional information related to the 2018 Recapitalization transaction is included in Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements. A portion of the proceeds from the 2018 Recapitalization was used to repay the remaining $490.1 million in outstanding principal and interest under the 2015 Five-Year Fixed Rate Notes, pre-fund a portion of the principal and interest payable on the 2018 Notes, pay transaction fees and expenses and repurchase and retire shares of our common stock. In connection with the repayment of the 2015 Five-Year Fixed Rate Notes, we expensed approximately $3.2 million for the remaining unamortized debt issuance costs associated with these notes. Additionally, in connection with the 2018 Recapitalization, we capitalized $8.2 million of debt issuance costs, which are being amortized into interest expense over the expected terms of the 2018 Notes. 2017 Recapitalization On July 24, 2017, we completed the 2017 Recapitalization in which certain of our subsidiaries issued notes pursuant to an asset-backed securitization. The notes consisted of $300.0 million Series 2017-1 Floating Rate Senior Secured Notes, Class A-2-I with an anticipated term of five years (the “2017 Five-Year Floating Rate Notes”), $600.0 million Series 2017-1 3.082% Fixed Rate Senior Secured Notes, Class A-2-II with an anticipated term of five years (the “2017 Five-Year Fixed Rate Notes”), and $1.0 billion Series 2017-1 4.118% Fixed Rate Senior Secured Notes, Class A-2-III with an anticipated term of 10 years (the “2017 Ten-Year Fixed Rate Notes” and, collectively with the 2017 Five-Year Floating Rate Notes and the 2017 Five-Year Fixed Rate Notes, the “2017 Notes”) in an offering exempt from registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The interest rate on the 2017 Five-Year Floating Rate Notes is payable at a rate equal to LIBOR plus 125 basis points. Gross proceeds from the issuance of the 2017 Notes were $1.9 billion. Additional information related to the 2017 Recapitalization transaction is included in Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements. 2015 Recapitalization On October 21, 2015, we completed the 2015 Recapitalization in which certain of our subsidiaries issued notes pursuant to an asset-backed securitization. The notes consisted of $500.0 million of Series 2015-1 3.484% Fixed Rate Senior Secured Notes, Class A-2-I (the “2015 Five-Year Fixed Rate Notes”), $800.0 million Series 2015-1 4.474% Fixed Rate Senior Secured Notes, Class A-2-II (the “2015 Ten-Year Fixed Rate Notes” and collectively with the 2015 Five-Year Fixed Rate Notes, the “2015 Notes”). Gross proceeds from the issuance of the 2015 Notes were $1.3 billion. The 2015 Five-Year Fixed Rate Notes were repaid in connection with the 2018 Recapitalization. Additional information related to the 2015 Recapitalization transaction is included in Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements. 2019, 2018, 2017 and 2015 Notes The “2019 Fixed Rate Notes,” “2018 Notes,” the “2017 Notes” and the “2015 Notes” are collectively referred to as the “2019, 2018, 2017 and 2015 Notes.” The 2019, 2018, 2017 and 2015 Notes have original scheduled principal payments of $42.0 million in 2021, $897.0 million in 2022, $33.0 million in each of 2023 and 2024, $1.15 billion in 2025, $20.8 million in 2026, $1.28 billion in 2027, $6.8 million in 2028 and $614.3 million in 2029. However, in accordance with our debt agreements, the payment of principal on the outstanding senior notes may be suspended if our leverage ratio is less than or equal to 5.0x total debt, as defined, to adjusted EBITDA, as defined, and no catch-up provisions are applicable. As of the fourth quarter of 2020, we had a leverage ratio of less than 5.0x, and accordingly, did not make the previously scheduled debt amortization payment beginning in the first quarter of 2021. Accordingly, all principal amounts of the outstanding 2019, 2018, 2017 and 2015 Notes have been classified as long-term debt in the consolidated balance sheet as of January 3, 2021. As a result, we currently expect to make principal payments of $873.0 million in 2022, $1.18 billion in 2025, $1.36 billion in 2027 and $668.3 million in 2029 on the 2019, 2018, 2017 and 2015 Notes. 37 During the third quarter of 2019, we had a leverage ratio of less than 5.0x, and accordingly, did not make the previously scheduled debt amortization payment in the fourth quarter of 2019. Subsequent to the 2019 Recapitalization, our leverage ratios exceeded the leverage ratio of 5.0x and, accordingly, we resumed making the scheduled amortization payments in the first quarter of 2020. The 2019, 2018, 2017 and 2015 Notes are subject to certain financial and non-financial covenants, including a debt service coverage calculation, as defined in the related agreements. In the event that certain covenants are not met, the 2019, 2018, 2017 and 2015 Notes may become due and payable on an accelerated schedule. Leases We lease certain retail store and supply chain center locations, supply chain vehicles, various equipment and our World Resource Center under leases with expiration dates through 2041. The adoption of Accounting Standards Codification 842, Leases , on December 30, 2018 had a material impact our assets and liabilities due to the recognition of operating lease right-of-use assets and lease liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet. Refer to Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our leases, including future minimum rental commitments. Capital Expenditures In the past three years, we have spent approximately $294.2 million for capital expenditures. In 2020, we invested $88.8 million in capital expenditures which primarily related to investments in our supply chain centers, proprietary internally developed point-of-sale system (Domino’s PULSE), our internal enterprise systems, our digital ordering platform, new Company-owned stores and asset upgrades for our existing Company-owned stores. We did not have any material commitments for capital expenditures as of January 3, 2021. Share Repurchase Programs Our share repurchase programs have historically been funded by excess operating cash flows, excess proceeds from our recapitalization transactions and borrowings under our variable funding notes. We used cash of approximately $304.6 million in 2020, $699.0 million in 2019 and $591.2 million in 2018 for share repurchases. Our Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program to repurchase up to $1.0 billion of the Company’s common stock on October 4, 2019. We had approximately $101.6 million left under this share repurchase program as of January 3, 2021. From January 4, 2021 through February 18, 2021, we repurchased and retired 65,870 shares of common stock for approximately $25.0 million. On February 24, 2021, our Board of Directors authorized a new share repurchase program to repurchase up to $1.0 billion of our common stock. This repurchase program replaces the remaining availability of approximately $76.6 million under our previously approved $1.0 billion share repurchase program. Dividends We declared dividends of approximately $122.2 million (or $3.12 per share) in 2020, approximately $105.6 million (or $2.60 per share) in 2019 and approximately $92.2 million (or $2.20 per share) in 2018. We paid dividends of approximately $121.9 million, $105.7 million and $92.2 million in 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. On February 24, 2021, the Company’s Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.94 per common share payable on March 30, 2021 to shareholders of record at the close of business on March 15, 2021. Sources and Uses of Cash The following table illustrates the main components of our cash flows: 38 Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities increased $95.8 million in 2020, due to an increase in net income of $90.6 million and higher non-cash amounts of $29.4 million. These increases were partially offset by a $24.2 million negative impact of changes in operating assets and liabilities in 2020 as compared to 2019, which primarily related to timing of payments on accounts payable and accrued liabilities, as well as increases in our inventory and accounts receivable balances associated with higher revenues. These operating asset and liability changes were partially offset by an increase in net advertising fund assets and liabilities, restricted, in 2020 as compared to 2019 due to the receipt of advertising contributions outpacing payments for advertising activities. We are focused on continually improving our net income and cash flow from operations and management expects to continue to generate positive cash flows from operating activities for the foreseeable future. Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities was $128.9 million in 2020, which consisted primarily of capital expenditures of $88.8 million (driven primarily by investments in supply chain centers, technological initiatives and corporate stores) and the investment in Dash Brands (Note 9) of $40.0 million. Cash used in investing activities was $27.9 million in 2019, which consisted primarily of $85.6 million of capital expenditures (driven primarily by investments in technological initiatives, supply chain centers and our Company-owned stores) and $3.4 million of purchases of franchise operations and other assets. These uses of cash were partially offset by maturities of restricted advertising fund investments of $50.2 million and the proceeds from the sale of assets of $12.3 million. Financing Activities Cash used in financing activities was $446.4 million in 2020. We borrowed $158.0 million under the 2019 Variable Funding Notes and repaid $202.1 million of long-term debt (of which $158.0 million related to the repayment of borrowings under the 2019 Variable Funding Notes). We also repurchased approximately $304.6 million in common stock under our Board of Directors-approved share repurchase program, made dividend payments to our shareholders of $121.9 million and made tax payments for restricted stock upon vesting of $6.8 million. These uses of cash were partially offset by proceeds from the exercise of stock options of $31.0 million. Cash used in financing activities was $222.8 million in 2019, primarily related to repurchases of common stock of $699.0 million under our Board of Directors-approved share repurchase program, dividend payments to our shareholders of $105.7 million, repayments of long-term debt of $92.1 million (of which $65.0 million related to the repayment of borrowings under our variable funding notes), payments for financing costs of $8.1 million and tax payments for restricted stock upon vesting of $6.0 million. These uses of cash were partially offset by proceeds from the issuance of $675.0 million of debt in connection with our 2019 Recapitalization and the exercise of stock options of $13.1 million. Impact of Inflation Inflation did not have a material impact on our operations in 2020, 2019 and 2018. Severe increases in inflation, however, could affect the global and U.S. economies and could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further discussion on the impact of commodities and other cost pressures is included above, as well as in Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. 39 SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT UNDER THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995 This Form 10-K includes various forward-looking statements about the Company within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the “Act”) that are based on current management expectations that involve substantial risks and uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially from the results expressed in, or implied by, these forward-looking statements. The following cautionary statements are being made pursuant to the provisions of the Act and with the intention of obtaining the benefits of the “safe harbor” provisions of the Act. These forward-looking statements generally can be identified by the use of words such as “anticipate,” “believe,” “could,” “should,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “may,” “will,” “plan,” “predict,” “project,” “seek,” “approximately,” “potential,” “outlook” and similar terms and phrases that concern our strategy, plans or intentions, including references to assumptions. These forward-looking statements address various matters including information concerning future results of operations and business strategy, the expected demand for future pizza delivery, our expectation that we will meet the terms of our agreement with our third-party supplier of pizza cheese, our belief that alternative third-party suppliers are available for our key ingredients in the event we are required to replace any of our supply partners, our intention to continue to enhance and grow online ordering, digital marketing and technological capabilities, our expectation that there will be no material environmental compliance-related capital expenditures, our plans to expand U.S. and international operations in many of the markets where we currently operate and in selected new markets, our expectation that the contribution rate for advertising fees payable to DNAF will remain in place for the foreseeable future, and the availability of our borrowings under the 2019 Variable Funding Notes for, among other things, funding working capital requirements, paying capital expenditures and funding other general corporate purposes, including payment of dividends. Forward-looking statements relating to our anticipated profitability, estimates in same store sales growth, the growth of our U.S. and international business, ability to service our indebtedness, our future cash flows, our operating performance, trends in our business and other descriptions of future events reflect management’s expectations based upon currently available information and data. While we believe these expectations and projections are based on reasonable assumptions, such forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions about us, including the risk factors listed under Item 1A. Risk Factors, as well as other cautionary language in this Form 10-K. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including but not limited to, the following: 40 In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the forward-looking events discussed in this Form 10-K might not occur. All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Form 10-K and should be evaluated with an understanding of their inherent uncertainty. Except as required under federal securities laws and the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission, we will not undertake, and specifically disclaim any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances arising after the date of this Form 10-K, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements included in this Form 10-K or that may be made elsewhere from time to time by, or on behalf of, us. All forward-looking statements attributable to us are expressly qualified by these cautionary statements. 41