********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Information in any item of this report as to which reference is made in this Item 1A is incorporated by reference herein. The use of such terms as “see” or “refer to” shall be deemed to incorporate at the place such term is used the information to which such reference is made. The Companies’ businesses are influenced by many factors that are difficult to predict, and that involve uncertainties that may materially affect actual operating results, cash flows and financial condition. The Companies have established an enterprise risk management program to identify, assess, manage and monitor its major business risks based on established criteria for the severity of an event, the likelihood of its occurrence, and the programs in place to control the event or reduce its impact. The Companies’ major risks include: Regulatory/Compliance Risks: The Companies Are Extensively Regulated And Are Subject To Substantial Penalties. The Companies’ operations require numerous permits, approvals and certificates from various federal, state and local governmental agencies. State utility regulators may seek to impose substantial penalties on the Utilities for violations of state utility laws, regulations or orders. The Utilities are also subject to recurring, independent, third-party audits with respect to these regulations and standards. In addition, the Utilities' rate plans usually include negative revenue adjustments for failing to meet certain operating and customer satisfaction standards. FERC has the authority to impose penalties on the Utilities, the Clean Energy Businesses and the projects that Con Edison Transmission invests in, which could be substantial, for violations of the Federal Power Act, the Natural Gas Act or related rules, including reliability and cyber security rules. Environmental agencies may seek penalties for failure to comply with laws, regulations or permits. The Companies may also be subject to penalties from other regulatory agencies. The Companies may be subject to new laws, regulations or other requirements or the revision or reinterpretation of such requirements, which could adversely affect them. See “Utility Regulation", "Competition" and “Environmental Matters – Climate Change" and "Environmental Matters - Other Federal, State and Local Environmental Provisions” in Item 1, “Critical Accounting Estimates” in Item 7 and “COVID-19 Regulatory Matters” and “Other Regulatory Matters” in Note B to the financial statements in Item 8. The Utilities’ Rate Plans May Not Provide A Reasonable Return. The Utilities have rate plans approved by state utility regulators that limit the rates they can charge their customers. The rates are generally designed for, but do not guarantee, the recovery of the Utilities’ cost of providing service (including a return on equity). See “Utility Regulation – State Utility Regulation – Rate Plans” in Item 1 and “Rate Plans” in Note B to the financial statements in Item 8. Rates usually may not be changed during the specified terms of the rate plans other than to recover energy costs and limited other exceptions. The Utilities’ actual costs may exceed levels provided for such costs in the rate plans (see “COVID-19 Regulatory Matters” in Note B to the financial statements in Item 8). State utility regulators can initiate proceedings to prohibit the Utilities from recovering from their customers the cost of service (including energy costs and storm restoration costs) that the regulators determine to have been imprudently incurred (see "Other Regulatory Matters" in Note B to the financial statements in Item 8). The Utilities have from time to time entered into settlement agreements to resolve various prudence proceedings. The Companies May Be Adversely Affected By Changes To The Utilities’ Rate Plans. The Utilities’ rate plans typically require action by regulators at their expiration dates, which may include approval of new plans with different provisions. The need to recover from customers increasing commodity or other costs, taxes or state-mandated assessments or surcharges could adversely affect the Utilities’ opportunity to obtain new rate plans that provide a reasonable rate of return and continue important provisions of current rate plans. The Utilities’ current NY electric and gas rate plans include revenue decoupling mechanisms and their NY electric, gas and steam rate plans include provisions for the recovery of energy costs and reconciliation of the actual amount of pension and other postretirement, environmental and certain other costs to amounts reflected in rates. See “Rate Plans” in Note B to the financial statements in Item 8. Operations Risks: The Failure Of, Or Damage To, The Companies’ Facilities Could Adversely Affect The Companies. The Utilities provide electricity, gas and steam service using energy facilities, many of which are located either in, or close to, densely populated public places. See the description of the Utilities’ facilities in Item 1. A failure of, or damage to, these facilities, or an error in the operation or maintenance of these facilities, could result in bodily injury or death, property damage, the release of hazardous substances or extended service interruptions. Impacts of climate change, such as sea level rise, coastal storm surge, inland flooding from intense rainfall, hurricane-strength winds and extreme heat could damage facilities and the Utilities may experience more severe consequences from attempting to operate during and after such events. The Utilities’ response to such events may be perceived to be below customer expectations. The Utilities' successful implementation of their maintenance programs reduces, but does not fully protect against, damage to their facilities for which they will be held responsible and which may hinder their restoration efforts. The Utilities could be required to pay substantial amounts that may not be covered by the Utilities’ insurance policies to repair or replace their facilities, compensate others for injury or death or other damage and settle any proceedings initiated by state utility regulators or other regulatory agencies. The occurrence of such events could also adversely affect the cost and availability of insurance. See “Other Regulatory Matters” in Note B and “Manhattan Explosion and Fire” in Note H to the financial statements in Item 8. Changes to laws, regulations or judicial doctrines could further expand the Utilities’ liability for service interruptions. See “Utility Regulation – State Utility Regulation” and "Environmental Matters – Climate Change" in Item 1. A Cyber Attack Could Adversely Affect The Companies. The Companies and other operators of critical energy infrastructure and energy market participants face a heightened risk of cyber attack and the Companies’ businesses require the continued operation of information systems and network infr astructure. See Item 1 for a description of the businesses of the Utilities, the Clean Energy Businesses and Con Edison Transmission. Cyber attacks may include hacking, viruses, malware, denial of service attacks, ransomware, exploited vulnerabilities or other security breac hes, including loss of data and communications. Cyber threats in general, and in particular to critical infrastructure, are increasing in sophistication, magnitude and frequency. Interconnectivity with customers, independent system operators, energy traders and other energy market participants, suppliers, contractors and others also exposes the Companies’ information systems and network infrastructure to an increased risk of cyber incidents, including attacks. Such interconnectivity increases the risk that a cyber incident or attack on the Companies could affect others and that a cyber incident or attack on others could affect the Companies. In the event of a cyber incident or attack that the Companies were unable to defend against or mitigate, the Companies could have their operations and the operations of their customers and others disrupted. The Companies could also have their financial and other information systems and network infrastructure impaired, property damaged, and customer and employee information stolen; experience substantial loss of revenues, response costs and other financial loss; and be subject to increased regulation, litigation, penalties and damage to their reputation. The Companies have experienced cyber incidents and attacks, although none of the incidents or attacks had a material impact. The Failure Of Processes and Systems And The Performance And Failure to Retain and Attract Employees And Contractors Could Adversely Affect The Companies. The Companies have developed business processes and use information and communication systems and enterprise platforms for operations, customer service, legal compliance, personnel, accounting, planning and other matters. The Utilities are replacing their existing customer billing and information systems. Failures in successfully implementing the new customer billing and information system could adversely affect the Utilities’ billing and revenue collection processes and cash flow and could result in higher costs. The Companies have completed a multi-year, phased transition of certain information technology services, including application maintenance and support and infrastructure and operations services, to a contractor. The failure of the Companies’ or its contractors' business processes or information and communication systems or the failure by the Companies’ employees or contractors to follow procedures, their unsafe actions, errors or intentional misconduct, cyber incidents or attacks, or work stoppages could adversely affect the Companies’ operations and liquidity and result in substantial liability, higher costs and increased regulatory requirements. The violation of laws or regulations by employees or contractors for personal gain may result from contract and procurement fraud, extortion, bribe acceptance, fraudulent related-party transactions and serious breaches of corporate policy or standards of business conduct. Competition for employee and contractor talent may result in operating challenges and increased costs to attract and retain talent. If the Companies are unable to successfully attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, their results of operations, financial position and cash flows could be negatively affected.  See “Human Capital” in Item 1. Environmental Risks: The Companies Are Exposed To Risks From The Environmental Consequences Of Their Operations. The Companies are exposed to risks relating to climate change and related matters. In 2019, CECONY completed a climate change vulnerability study and during 2020, CECONY further evaluated its future climate change adaptation strategies and developed a climate change implementation plan. NY State enacted the Climate Leadership and Community Protection Act and New York City enacted the Climate Mobilization Act . See “Environmental Matters – Clean Energy Future” in Item 1. CECONY may also be impacted by regulations requiring reductions in air emissions. See “Environmental Matters – Other Federal, State and Local Environmental Provisions – Air Quality” in Item 1. In addition, the Utilities are responsible for hazardous substances, such as oil, asbestos, PCBs and coal tar, that have been used or produced in the course of the Utilities’ operations and are present on properties or in facilities and equipment currently or previously owned by them. See “Environmental Matters” in Item 1 and Note G to the financial statements in Item 8. The Companies could be adversely affected if a causal relationship between electric and magnetic fields and adverse health effects were to be established. Financial and Market Risks: Con Edison’s Ability To Pay Dividends Or Interest Depends On Dividends From Its Subsidiaries. Con Edison’s ability to pay dividends on its common shares or interest on its external borrowings depends primarily on the dividends and other distributions it receives from its subsidiaries. The dividends that the Utilities may pay to Con Edison are limited by the NYSPSC to not more than 100 percent of their respective income available for dividends calculated on a two-year rolling average basis, with certain exceptions. See “Dividends” in Note C and Note U to the financial statements in Item 8. Changes To Tax Laws Could Adversely Affect the Companies. Changes to tax laws, regulations or interpretations thereof could have a material adverse impact on the Companies. Depending on the extent of these changes, the changes could also adversely impact the Companies’ credit ratings and liquidity. See “Capital Requirements and Resources – Capital Resources” in Item 1, “Liquidity and Capital Resources – Cash Flows from Operating Activities” in Item 7, "Rate Plans" and "Other Regulatory Matters" in Note B and Note L to the financial statements in Item 8. The Companies Require Access To Capital Markets To Satisfy Funding Requirements. The Utilities estimate that their construction expenditures will exceed $14,600 million over the next three years. The Utilities use internally-generated funds, equity contributions from Con Edison, if any, and external borrowings to fund the construction expenditures. Con Edison expects to finance its capital requirements primarily through internally generated funds, proceeds from the anticipated sale of the Clean Energy Businesses, the sale of its common shares or external borrowings. Changes in financial market conditions or in the Companies’ credit ratings could adversely affect their ability to raise new capital and the cost thereof. See “Capital Requirements and Resources” in Item 1. A Disruption In The Wholesale Energy Markets, Increased Commodity Costs Or Failure By An Energy Supplier or Customer Could Adversely Affect The Companies. Almost all the electricity and gas the Utilities sell to their full-service customers is purchased through the wholesale energy markets or pursuant to contracts with energy suppliers. See the description of the Utilities’ energy supply in Item 1. A disruption in the wholesale energy markets or a failure on the part of the Utilities’ energy suppliers or operators of energy delivery systems that connect to the Utilities’ energy facilities could adversely affect their ability to meet their customers’ energy needs and adversely affect the Companies. The Utilities' ability to gain access to additional energy supplies, if needed, depends on effective markets and siting approvals for developer projects, which the Utilities do not control. See “CECONY - Gas Peak Demand” in Item 1. Increases in electric and gas commodity prices may contribute to a slower recovery of cash from outstanding customer accounts receivable balances and increases to the allowance for uncollectible accounts, and may result in increases to write-offs of customer accounts receivable balances. See “Financial and Commodity Market Risks – Commodity Price Risk” in Item 7. The Clean Energy Businesses sell the output of their renewable electric projects under long-term power purchase agreements with utilities and municipalities, and a failure of the production projects could adversely affect Con Edison. The Companies May Have Substantial Unfunded Pension And Other Postretirement Benefit Liabilities. The Utilities may have substantial unfunded pension and other postretirement benefit liabilities. Significant declines in the market values of the investments held to fund pension and other postretirement benefits could trigger substantial funding requirements under governmental regulations. See “Critical Accounting Estimates – Accounting for Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits” and “Financial and Commodity Market Risks” in Item 7 and Notes E and F to the financial statements in Item 8. Other Risks: The Companies Face Risks Related To Health Epidemics And Other Outbreaks, Including The COVID-19 Pandemic. Pandemic illness could potentially disrupt the Utilities' employees and contractors from providing essential utility services and the Companies' liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. The COVID-19 pandemic has impacted, and continues to impact, countries, communities, supply chains and markets. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, there has been an economic slowdown in the Companies’ service territories and changes in governmental and regulatory policy. The decline in business activity in the Companies’ service territories has resulted in a slower recovery of cash from outstanding customer accounts receivable balances, material increases in customer accounts receivable balances, increases to the allowance for uncollectible accounts, and may result in increases to write-offs of customer accounts. Although the Utilities’ NY electric and gas businesses have largely effective revenue decoupling mechanisms in place, higher unpaid accounts have impacted and could continue to impact the Companies’ liquidity. See “Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) Impacts” in Item 7 and “COVID-19 Regulatory Matters” in Note B. The Companies’ Strategies May Not Be Effective To Address Changes In The External Business Environment. The failure to identify, plan and execute strategies to address changes in the external business environment could have a material adverse impact on the Companies. Con Edison seeks to provide shareholder value through continued dividend growth, supported by earnings growth in regulated utilities and contracted electric and gas assets. Changes to the competitive landscape, public policy, laws or regulations (or interpretations thereof), customer behavior or technology could significantly impact the value of the Utilities’ energy delivery facilities and Con Edison Transmission's investment in electric and gas transmission projects. Such changes could also affect the Companies’ opportunities to make additional investments in such assets and the potential return on the investments. The Utilities' gas delivery customers and CECONY's steam delivery customers have alternatives, such as electricity and oil. Distributed energy resources, and demand reduction and energy efficiency investments, provide ways for the energy consumers within the Utilities’ service areas to manage their energy usage. The Companies expect distributed energy resources and electric alternatives to gas and steam to increase, and for gas and steam usage to decrease, as the CLCPA and the Climate Mobilization Act continue to be implemented. CECONY established a gas moratorium in March 2019 on new gas service in most of Westchester County. CECONY filed a gas planning analysis with the NYSPSC in July 2020 stating the moratorium could be lifted when increased pipeline capacity is achieved or peak demand is reduced to a level that would enable the company to lift the moratorium and that it is monitoring gas supply constraint in the New York City portion of its service territory. See "Clean Energy Businesses," "Con Edison Transmission," "Environmental Matters - Clean Energy Future" and "Environmental Matters - Climate Change," “Competition” and "CECONY - Gas Peak Demand" in Item 1. The Companies Face Risks Related To Supply Chain Disruptions And Inflation. The Companies have been impacted, and expect to continue to be impacted by, global and U.S. supply chain disruptions and shortages of materials, equipment, labor and other resources that are critical to the Companies’ business operations, primarily the Utilities’ electric and central operations. Such disruptions and shortages have resulted in increased prices and lead times for critical orders of materials and equipment needed by the Companies in their operations, such as certain raw materials, microprocessors, semiconductors, microchips, vehicles and transformers. Long lead times for replacement parts could restrict the availability and delay the construction, maintenance or repair of items that are needed to support the Utilities' normal operations and may result in prolonged customer outages, which could in turn lead to unrecovered costs for such service interruptions.  Demand for electric equipment is increasing due to utilities’ efforts to meet clean energy goals and in order to prepare for more frequent extreme weather events at a time when manufacturing capacity and supply are decreasing. Prices of materials, equipment, transportation and other resources have increased as a result of these supply chain disruptions and shortages and may continue to increase as a result of inflation. Increases in inflation raise the Companies’ costs for operating and capital costs and employee and retiree benefit costs in excess of the costs reflected in the Utilities’ rate plans and could also increase the amount of capital that needs to be raised by the Companies and the costs of such capital. The Companies Also Face Other Risks That Are Beyond Their Control. The Companies’ results of operations can be affected by circumstances or events that are beyond their control. Weather and energy efficiency efforts directly influence the demand for electricity, gas and steam service, and can affect the price of energy commodities. Terrorist or other physical attacks or acts of war could damage the Companies' facilities. Economic conditions can affect customers’ demand and ability to pay for service, which could adversely affect the Companies.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

This combined management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations relates to the consolidated financial statements included in this report of two separate registrants: Con Edison and CECONY, and should be read in conjunction with the financial statements and the notes thereto. As used in this report, the term the “Companies” refers to Con Edison and CECONY. CECONY is a subsidiary of Con Edison and, as such, information in this management’s discussion and analysis about CECONY applies to Con Edison. Information in any item of this report referred to in this discussion and analysis is incorporated by reference herein. The use of terms such as “see” or “refer to” shall be deemed to incorporate by reference into this discussion and analysis the information to which reference is made. Corporate Overview Con Edison’s principal business operations are those of the Utilities, the Clean Energy Businesses and Con Edison Transmission. CECONY is a regulated utility that provides electric service in New York City and New York's Westchester County, gas service in Manhattan, the Bronx, parts of Queens and parts of Westchester, and steam service in Manhattan. O&R is a regulated utility serving customers in a 1,300-square-mile-area in southeastern NY State and northern NJ. Con Edison Clean Energy Businesses, through its subsidiaries, develops, owns and operates renewable energy infrastructure projects and provides energy-related products and services to wholesale and retail customers. In October 2022, Con Edison entered into a purchase and sale agreement pursuant to which Con Edison agreed to sell the Clean Energy Businesses to RWE Renewables Americas, LLC, a subsidiary of RWE Aktiengesellschaft. The Clean Energy Businesses were classified as held for sale as of December 31, 2022. See “Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale” in Note A and Note X to the financial statements in Item 8. Con Edison Transmission, through its subsidiaries, invests in electric transmission projects supporting Con Edison's effort to transition to clean, renewable energy and manages, through joint ventures, both electric and gas assets while seeking to develop electric transmission projects that will bring clean, renewable electricity to customers, focusing on NY, New England, the Mid-Atlantic states and the Midwest. In addition to the risks and uncertainties described in Item 1A and the Companies’ material contingencies described in Notes B, G and H to the financial statements in Item 8, the Companies’ management considers the following events, trends, and uncertainties to be important to understanding the Companies’ current and future financial condition. Anticipated Sale of the Clean Energy Businesses During the first nine months of 2022, Con Edison considered strategic alternatives with respect to the Clean Energy Businesses. On October 1, 2022, following the conclusion of such review and to allow for continued focus on the Utilities and their clean energy transition, Con Edison entered into a purchase and sale agreement pursuant to which Con Edison agreed to sell the Clean Energy Businesses to RWE Renewables Americas, LLC, a subsidiary of RWE Aktiengesellschaft (RWE) for a total of $6,800 million, subject to closing adjustments. The purchase price will be adjusted (i) upward for certain cash and cash equivalents, (ii) downward for certain indebtedness and debt-like items, (iii) downward for certain transaction expenses, (iv) upward or downward to the extent that the net working capital varies from a set target, (v) upward or downward to the extent that capital expenditures incurred prior to the closing of the transaction vary from a set budget, and (vi) downward by the value allocated to certain assets and projects that are not able to be conveyed to RWE upon closing of the transaction. The purchase and sale agreement includes certain customary representations, warranties and covenants. The transaction is subject to customary closing conditions, including, among other things; expiration of the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended, which occurred on November 28, 2022; approval from the FERC under Section 203 of the Federal Power Act, which was obtained on January 20, 2023 and approval by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States, which was obtained on February 6, 2023. The transaction is expected to close on or about the end of the first quarter of 2023. Subject to, and following the closing of the sale of the Clean Energy Businesses, Con Edison intends to use the net proceeds from the sale to repay $1,250 million of parent company debt in 2023, invest in the Utilities and repurchase up to $1,000 million of its common shares. See “Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale” in Note A and Note X to the financial statements in Item 8 and "Liquidity and Financing," below. Clean Energy Goals The success of the Companies’ efforts to meet federal, state and city clean energy policy goals and the impact of such goals on CECONY’s electric, gas and steam businesses and O&R’s electric and gas businesses may impact the Companies’ future financial condition. The Utilities expect electric demand to increase and gas and steam usage to decrease in their service territories as federal, state and local laws and policies are enacted and implemented that continue to promote renewable electric energy. In particular, the long-term future of the Utilities’ gas businesses depends upon the role that natural gas or other gaseous fuels will play in facilitating New York State’s and New York City’s climate goals. In addition, the impact and costs of climate change on the Utilities’ systems and the success of the Utilities’ efforts to increase system reliability and manage service interruptions resulting from severe weather may impact the Companies’ future financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. CECONY Steam Rate Plan In November 2022, as updated in February 2023, CECONY filed a request with the NYSPSC for a steam rate increase of $141 million , effective November 2023. The filing reflects a return on common equity of 10.0 percent and a common equity ratio of 50 percent and requests a new mechanism for decoupling revenues from steam consumption. CECONY’s future earnings will depend on the rates authorized in, and the other provisions of, its November 2023 steam rate plan and CECONY’s ability to operate its businesses in a manner consistent with such rate plan. Therefore, the outcome of CECONY’s rate request, which requires approval by the NYSPSC, will impact the Companies’ future financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. See “Utility Regulation – State Utility Regulation – Rate Plans” in Item 1 and “Rate Plans” in Note B to the financial statements in Item 8. Con Edison Transmission Con Edison Transmission has taken steps to realign its portfolio to focus on electric transmission by completing the sale of its 50 percent interest in Stagecoach in 2021. During 2020 and 2021, Con Edison Transmission recorded impairments on its investment in Mountain Valley Pipeline, LLC and during 2021, Con Edison Transmission recorded impairments on its previously held interest in Stagecoach and its interest in Honeoye Storage Corporation (Honeoye). Any future impairments of Con Edison Transmission’s investments may impact Con Edison’s future financial condition and results of operations. Con Edison Transmission is pursuing opportunities and participating in competitive solicitations to develop electric transmission projects that will deliver renewable energy to high voltage electric grids in NY, through its NY Transco partnership, and in other states. The success of Con Edison Transmission’s efforts in these competitive solicitations and to grow its electric transmission portfolio may impact Con Edison’s future capital requirements. See "Con Edison Transmission" in Item 1 and “Investments” in Note A, Note K and Note W to the financial statements in Item 8. Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) Impacts The Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic has impacted, and continues to impact, countries, communities, supply chains and markets.  The COVID-19 pandemic resulted in changes in governmental and regulatory policy and contributed to an economic slowdown in the Companies’ service territories. The decline in business activity in the Companies’ service territories resulted in a slower recovery of cash from outstanding customer accounts receivable balances, material increases in customer accounts receivable balances, increases to the allowance for uncollectible accounts, and may result in increases to write-offs and recoveries of customer accounts. The extent to which COVID-19 will continue to impact the Companies, in particular, the Companies’ ability to recover cash for outstanding customer accounts receivable balances and the amount of write-offs of customer accounts, may impact Con Edison’s future financial condition, results of operations and liquidity. See “Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) Impacts” in Item 7 and “COVID-19 Regulatory Matters” in Note B. The Companies continue to monitor the impact of the COVID-19 global pandemic on their employees, customers and other stakeholders. The Companies support employee health and facility hygiene through regular cleaning and disinfecting of their facilities and leveraging technology through hybrid (combination of in-person and remote) meetings. Employees who test positive for COVID-19 are directed to isolate at home and are evaluated for close, prolonged contact with other employees. Following the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention guidelines, sick employees return to work when they can safely do so. The Utilities continue to provide critical electric, gas and steam service to customers during the emergence from the pandemic. Below is additional information related to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and the Companies’ actions. Also, see “COVID-19 Regulatory Matters” in Note B to the financial statements in Item 8. Certain financial data of Con Edison’s businesses are presented below: (a) Net income for common stock from the Clean Energy Businesses for the year ended December 31, 2022 reflects $46 million (after-tax) of the effects of HLBV accounting for tax equity investments in certain renewable electric projects and $135 million of net after-tax mark-to-market effects. The Clean Energy Businesses were classified as held for sale as of December 31, 2022. Depreciation and amortization expenses on their assets of $(46) million (after-tax) were not recorded for the three months ended December 31, 2022.  The impact of the anticipated sale of the Clean Energy Businesses on the remeasurement of deferred state taxes and valuation allowance for deferred tax assets (net of federal taxes) was $(2) million for the year ended December 31, 2022. See "Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale" in Note A, Note S and Note X to the financial statements in Item 8. (b) Net loss for common stock from Con Edison Transmission for the year ended December 31, 2022 includes $(4) million (net of federal taxes) relating to the remeasurement of deferred state taxes related to prior year dispositions. See "Critical Accounting Estimates - Investments" in Item 7,  "Investments - 2020 and 2021 Partial Impairments of Investment in Mountain Valley Pipeline, LLC (MVP)" in Note A to the financial statements in Item 8. (c) Other includes parent company and consolidation adjustments. Net income for common stock for the year ended December 31, 2022 includes $(4) million (after-tax) of income tax impact on the effects of HLBV accounting for tax equity investments in certain renewable projects and $(10) million of income tax impact on the net after-tax mark-to-market effects. Net income for common stock for the year ended December 31, 2022 includes $(9) million (net of federal taxes) relating to the remeasurement of deferred state taxes related to prior year dispositions for Con Edison Transmission. Net income for common stock for the year ended December 31, 2022 also includes $(35) million of transaction costs related to the anticipated sale of the Clean Energy Businesses (net of tax). The impact of the anticipated sale of the Clean Energy Businesses on the remeasurement of deferred state taxes and valuation allowance for deferred tax assets (net of federal taxes) was $(119) million for the year ended December 31, 2022. Depreciation and amortization expenses on the assets of the Clean Energy Businesses $(4) million (after-tax) were not recorded for the three months ended December 31, 2022.  See "Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale" in Note A, Note S and Note X to the financial statements in Item 8. Inflation Reduction Act On August 16, 2022, the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (the Act) was signed into law and included a new 15 percent Corporate Alternative Minimum Tax (CAMT). Under the Act, a corporation will be subject to the CAMT if its average annual Adjusted Financial Statement Income (AFSI) for the three taxable year period ending prior to the taxable year exceeds $1,000 million, and will apply to tax years beginning after December 31, 2022. Based on management’s preliminary calculations, Con Edison and CECONY do not expect to be subject to the CAMT in 2023 but are expected to be subject to the CAMT in subsequent years. However, the provisions of the CAMT are not expected to have a material impact on the Companies’ financial position, results of operations or liquidity. Impact of CARES Act and 2021 Appropriations Act on Accounting for Income Taxes In response to the economic impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security (CARES) Act became law on March 27, 2020. The CARES Act had several key business tax relief measures that presented cash benefits and/or refunds for Con Edison and its subsidiaries, including permitting a five-year carryback of a NOL for tax years 2018, 2019 and 2020, temporary removal of the 80 percent limitation of NOL carryforwards against taxable income for tax years before 2021, temporary relaxation of the limitations on interest deductions, employee retention tax credit and deferral of payments of employer payroll taxes. Con Edison carried back a NOL of $29 million from tax year 2018 to tax year 2013. This allowed Con Edison, mostly at the Clean Energy Businesses, to receive a $2.5 million net tax refund and to recognize a discrete income tax benefit of $4 million in 2020, due to the higher federal statutory tax rate in 2013. See "Income Tax" in Note L. Con Edison and its subsidiaries did not have a federal NOL in tax years 2019 or 2020. Con Edison and its subsidiaries benefited by the increase in the percentage for calculating the limitation on the interest expense deduction from 30 percent of Adjusted Taxable Income (ATI) to 50 percent of ATI in 2019 and 2020, which allowed the Companies to deduct 100 percent of their interest expense. For 2021, the limitation on interest expense for computing ATI reverted back to 30 percent. The Companies qualify for an employee retention tax credit created under the CARES Act for "eligible employers" related to governmental authorities imposing restrictions that partially suspended their operations for a portion of their workforce due to the COVID-19 pandemic and the Companies continued to pay them. For the year ended December 31, 2020, Con Edison and CECONY recognized a tax benefit to Taxes, other than income taxes of $10 million and $7 million, respectively. The CARES Act also allowed employers to defer payments of the employer share of Social Security payroll taxes that would have otherwise been owed from March 27, 2020 through December 31, 2020. The Companies deferred the payment of employer payroll taxes for the period April 1, 2020 through December 31, 2020 of approximately $71 million ($63 million of which is for CECONY). The Companies repaid half of this liability during 2021 and the other half during 2022. Under the CARES Act, the Companies qualified for an employee retention tax credit for “eligible employers” related to governmental authorities imposing restrictions that partially suspended their operation for a portion of their workforce due to the COVID-19 pandemic. In December 2020, the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021 (the 2021 Appropriations Act) was signed into law. The 2021 Appropriations Act, among other things, extended the expiring employee retention tax credit to include qualified wages paid in the first two quarters of 2021, increased the qualified wages paid to an employee from 50 percent up to $10,000 annually in 2020 to 70 percent up to $10,000 per quarter in 2021 and increased the maximum employee retention tax credit amount an employer could take per employee from $5,000 in 2020 to $14,000 in the first two quarters of 2021. In March 2021, the American Rescue Plan Act was signed into law that expanded the 2021 Appropriations Act to extend the period for eligible employers to receive the employer retention credit from June 30, 2021 to December 31, 2021. In November 2021, the Infrastructure and Investment and Jobs Act was signed into law and accelerated the end of the employee retention tax credit retroactive to October 1, 2021, rather than December 31, 2021. This effectively reduced the maximum credit available from $28,000 to $21,000 per employee. For the year ended December 31, 2021, Con Edison and CECONY recognized a tax benefit to Taxes, other than income taxes of $9 million and $4 million, respectively. Accounting Considerations Due to the COVID-19 pandemic and subsequent New York State on PAUSE and related executive orders (that have since been lifted), a decline in business, bankruptcies, layoffs and furloughs, among other factors, both commercial and residential customers have had and may continue to have increased difficulty paying their utility bills. In June 2020, the state of NY enacted a law prohibiting NY utilities, including CECONY and O&R, from disconnecting residential customers, and starting in May 2021 small business customers, during the COVID-19 state of emergency, which ended in June 2021. In addition, such prohibitions were in effect until December 21, 2021 for residential and small business customers who experienced a change in financial circumstances due to the COVID-19 pandemic. CECONY and O&R have existing allowances for uncollectible accounts established against their customer accounts receivable balances that are reevaluated each quarter and updated accordingly. Changes to the Utilities’ reserve balances that result in write-offs of customer accounts receivable balances are not reflected in rates during the term of the current rate plans. For the year ended December 31, 2022, CECONY and O&R issued total credits of $359.9 million and $6.1 million, respectively, towards reducing customers’ accounts receivable balances pursuant to COVID-19 arrears assistance programs. See "COVID-19 Regulatory Matters" in Note B to the financial statements in Item 8. In January 2023, the NYSPSC issued an order implementing a Phase 2 COVID-19 arrears assistance program that provides credits towards reducing the arrears balances of residential and small commercial electric and gas customers of CECONY and O&R. At the time the order was issued, CECONY’s and O&R’s eligible arrears balances were estimated to be $388.7 million and $2.9 million, respectively. The order authorizes a surcharge mechanism for recovery of the eligible credit amounts over a ten-year period commencing after credits are issued for CECONY and over a one-year period commencing after credits are issued for O&R. See "COVID-19 Regulatory Matters" in Note B and Note N to the financial statements in Item 8. CECONY’s and O&R’s "accounts receivable – customers" balance (net of allowance for uncollectible accounts) increased from $1,841 million and $91 million at December 31, 2021 to $2,099 million and $93 million at December 31, 2022, respectively. CECONY’s customer accounts receivable balances that are over 60 days in arrears increased from $1,272 million at December 31, 2021 to $1,308 million at December 31, 2022. CECONY’s allowances for uncollectible customer accounts reserve increased from $304 million at December 31, 2021 to $314 million at December 31, 2022. O&R’s customer accounts receivable balances that are over 60 days in arrears decreased from $29 million at December 31, 2021 to $22 million at December 31, 2022. O&R’s allowances for uncollectible customer accounts reserve decreased from $12.3 million at December 31, 2021 to $8 million at December 31, 2022. During 2022, the potential economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and the COVID-19 arrears assistance programs, were considered in forward-looking projections related to write-off and recovery rates, resulting in changes to the customer allowance for uncollectible accounts as detailed herein. The Companies test goodwill for impairment at least annually or whenever there is a triggering event, and test long-lived and intangible assets for recoverability when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of long-lived or intangible assets may not be recoverable. The Companies identified no triggering events or changes in circumstances related to the COVID-19 pandemic that would indicate that the carrying value of goodwill, long-lived or intangible assets may not be recoverable at December 31, 2021 and 2022. See Note K to the financial statements in Item 8. NY Legislation In April 2021, NY passed a law that increases the corporate franchise tax rate on business income from 6.5 percent to 7.25 percent, retroactive to January 1, 2021, for taxpayers with taxable income greater than $5 million. The law also reinstates the business capital tax at 0.1875 percent, not to exceed a maximum tax liability of $5 million per taxpayer. NY requires a corporate franchise taxpayer to calculate and pay the highest amount of tax under the three alternative methods: a tax on business income; a tax on business capital; or a fixed dollar minimum. The provisions to increase the corporate franchise tax rate and reinstate a capital tax are scheduled to expire after 2023 and are not expected to have a material impact on the Companies’ financial position, results of operations or liquidity. In addition, the new law created a program that allows eligible residential renters in NY who require assistance with rent and utility bills to have up to twelve months of electric and gas utility bill arrears forgiven, provided that such arrears were accrued on or after March 13, 2020. The program will be administered by the State Office of Temporary and Disability Assistance (OTDA) in coordination with the NYSDPS and the NYSPSC (the OTDA Program). Under the OTDA Program, CECONY and O&R would qualify for a refundable tax credit for NY gross-receipts tax equal to the amount of arrears waived by the Utilities in the year that the arrears are waived and certified by the NYSPSC. See "COVID-19 Regulatory Matters” in Note B to the financial statements in Item 8. Liquidity and Financing The Companies continue to monitor the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic on the financial markets closely, including borrowing rates and daily cash collections. The Companies have been able to access the capital markets as needed since the start of the COVID-19 pandemic in March 2020. Inflationary pressure and higher interest rates could increase the amount of capital needed by the Utilities and the costs of such capital. See Notes C and D to the financial statements in Item 8. The decline in business activity in the Utilities’ service territory due to the COVID-19 pandemic and subsequent New York State on PAUSE and related executive orders (that have since been lifted) resulted in a slower recovery in cash of outstanding customer accounts receivable balances in 2020 and 2021. During 2022, increases in electric and gas commodity prices have contributed and may further contribute to a slower recovery of cash from outstanding customer accounts receivable balances. The Utilities use derivative instruments to hedge price fluctuations for the purchase of electricity and gas. Volatility in electric and gas commodity prices that lead to the posting of cash collateral with counterparties could negatively impact the Utilities’ liquidity. See "COVID-19 Regulatory Matters" in Note B to the financial statements in Item 8 and “Financial and Commodity Market Risks – Commodity Price Risk,” below. The Utilities’ rate plans have revenue decoupling mechanisms in their NY electric and gas businesses that largely reconcile actual energy delivery revenues to the authorized delivery revenues approved by the NYSPSC per month and reconcile the deferred balances semi-annually under CECONY's electric rate plan (January through June and July through December, respectively) and annually under CECONY's gas rate plan and O&R NY's electric and gas rate plans (January through December). Differences are accrued with interest each month for CECONY's and O&R NY’s electric customers and after the annual deferral period ends for CECONY's and O&R NY’s gas customers for refund to, or recovery from customers, as applicable. Generally, the refund to or recovery from customers begins August and February of each year over an ensuing six-month period for CECONY's electric customers and February of each year over an ensuing twelve-month period for CECONY's gas and O&R NY's electric and gas customers. Although these revenue decoupling mechanisms are in place, lower billed sales revenues and higher unpaid accounts have reduced and are expected to continue to reduce liquidity at the Utilities. In March 2020, the Utilities began suspending service disconnections, certain collection notices, final bill collection agency activity, new late payment charges and certain other fees for all customers. In November 2021, the NYSPSC issued an order establishing a surcharge recovery mechanism for CECONY to collect, commencing December 1, 2021 through December 31, 2022, $43 million and $7 million for electric and gas, respectively, of late payment charges and fees that were not billed for the year ended December 31, 2020. The company recorded such amounts as revenue for the year ended December 31, 2021, as permitted under the accounting rules for regulated utilities, and also accrued such amounts as a current asset at December 31, 2021. Pursuant to the November 2021 order, the company also established a recovery mechanism for CECONY to collect, commencing January 2023 through December 2023, $19 million and $4 million for electric and gas, respectively, of late payment charges and fees that were not billed for the year ended December 31, 2021 and the company recorded such amounts as revenue for the year ended December 31, 2021, as permitted under the accounting rules for regulated utilities, and also accrued such amounts as a current asset at December 31, 2021. In addition, pursuant to the November 2021 order, CECONY established a reserve of $7 million toward addressing customer arrearages for the year ended December 31, 2021 that, pursuant to a June 2022 NYSPSC order discussed below, was used to fund a portion of the COVID-19 arrears assistance program for low-income customers. The order also established a surcharge recovery or sur-credit mechanism for any late payment charges and fee deferrals, subject to offsetting related savings resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, for 2022 starting in January 2024 over a twelve-month period. CECONY resumed late payment charges for commercial and residential customers who have not experienced a change in financial circumstances due to the COVID-19 pandemic on September 3, 2021 and October 1, 2021, respectively. Pursuant to the October 2021 joint proposal for new electric and gas rates for O&R that was approved by the NYSPSC in April 2022, O&R recorded late payment charges and fees that were not billed for the years ended December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2021 of $1.7 million and $2.4 million, respectively, as revenue for the year ended December 31, 2021, as permitted under the accounting rules for regulated utilities, and also accrued such amounts as a current asset at December 31, 2021. See “Rate Plans,” above. O&R resumed late payment charges for commercial and residential customers who have not experienced a change in financial circumstances due to the COVID-19 pandemic on October 1, 2021. Con Edison and the Utilities have a $2,250 million credit agreement (Credit Agreement) in place under which banks are committed to provide loans on a revolving credit basis until December 2023 ($2,200 million of commitments from December 2022), subject to certain conditions. In March 2022, CECONY entered into a 364-Day Revolving Credit Agreement (CECONY Credit Agreement) under which banks are committed to provide loans up to $750 million on a revolving credit basis until March 30, 2023, subject to certain conditions. In April 2022, FERC issued an order that increases CECONY's authorization to issue short-term debt from $2,250 million to $3,000 million effective May 2022. Con Edison and the Utilities have not entered into any loans under the Credit Agreement and CECONY has not entered into any loans under the CECONY Credit Agreement. See Note D to the financial statements in Item 8. New York State and the NYSPSC implemented COVID-19 arrears assistance programs that provide credits and establishes surcharge recovery mechanisms towards reducing the arrears balances of low-income electric and gas customers of CECONY and O&R. See "COVID-19 Regulatory Matters" in Note B and Note L to the financial statements in Item 8 and “Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) Impacts – Accounting Considerations,” above. In October 2022, Con Edison entered into an agreement to sell the Clean Energy Businesses for $6,800 million, subject to closing adjustments, including working capital adjustments and downward adjustments for indebtedness, transaction expenses and the value of certain assets and projects that are not able to be conveyed to the buyer upon closing of the transaction. Subject to, and following the closing of the sale of the Clean Energy Businesses, Con Edison intends to use the net proceeds from the sale to repay $1,250 million of parent company debt in 2023, invest in the Utilities and repurchase up $1,000 million of its common shares. The transaction is expected to close on or about the end of the first quarter of 2023, subject to satisfaction of certain condition s. See "Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale" in Note A and Note X to the financial statements in Item 8 and "Anticipated Sale of the Clean Energy Business," above. Results of Operations Net income for common stock and earnings per share for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 were as follows: (a) Net income for common stock and earnings per share from the Clean Energy Businesses for the year ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 reflects $46 million or $0.14 a share (after-tax), $107 million or $0.31 a share (after-tax) and $(32) million or $(0.10) a share (after-tax) of the effects of HLBV accounting for tax equity investments in certain renewable electric projects. Net income for common stock and earnings per share from the Clean Energy Businesses also includes $135 million or $0.38 a share, $40 million or $0.11 a share and $(43) million or $(0.13) a share of net after-tax mark-to-market effects in 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. The Clean Energy Businesses were classified as held for sale as of December 31, 2022. Depreciation and amortization expenses on their assets of $(46) million or $(0.13) a share (after-tax) were not recorded for the three months ended December 31, 2022. The impact of the anticipated sale of the Clean Energy Businesses on the remeasurement of deferred state taxes and valuation allowance for deferred tax assets (net of federal taxes) was $(2) million or $(0.01) a share for the three months ended December 31, 2022. See "Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale" in Note A, Note S and Note X to the financial statements in Item 8. Net income for common stock and earnings per share from the Clean Energy Businesses for the year ended December 31, 2021 includes $(3) million (after-tax) or $(0.01) a share (after-tax) for the loss from the sale of a renewable electric project. See Note S to the financial statements in Item 8. (b)    Net loss for common stock and earnings per share from Con Edison Transmission for the year ended December 31, 2022 includes $(4) million or $(0.01) a share (net of federal taxes) relating to the remeasurement of deferred state taxes related to prior year dispositions. Net loss for common stock and earnings per share from Con Edison Transmission for the year ended December 31, 2021 includes $(153) million or $(0.44) a share of net after-tax impairment loss related to its investment in Stagecoach, $(168) million or $(0.48) a share of net after-tax impairment loss related to its investment in Mountain Valley Pipeline, LLC and $(5) million or $(0.02) a share of loss related to a goodwill impairment loss related to its investment in Honeoye. Net income for common stock and earnings per share from Con Edison Transmission for the year ended December 31, 2020 includes $(232) million or $(0.69) a share of net after-tax impairment loss related to its investment in Mountain Valley Pipeline, LLC. See "Critical Accounting Estimates - Investments" in Item 7 and “Investments - Partial Impairment of Investment in Mountain Valley Pipeline, LLC (MVP)” in Note A to the financial statements in Item 8. (c)    Other includes parent company and consolidation adjustments. Net income for common stock and earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2022 includes $(4) million (after-tax) or $(0.02) a share (after-tax) of income tax impact on the effects of HLBV accounting for tax equity investments in certain renewable electric projects and $(11) million or $(0.03) a share of income tax impact on the net after-tax mark-to-market effects. Net income for common stock and earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2022 includes $(9) million or $(0.03) a share (net of federal taxes) relating to the remeasurement of deferred state taxes related to prior year dispositions for Con Edison Transmission. Net income for common stock for the year ended December 31, 2022 also includes $(35) million and $(0.10) a share of transaction costs related to the anticipated sale of the Clean Energy Businesses (net of tax) related to the anticipated sale of the Clean Energy Businesses. Impact of the anticipated sale of the Clean Energy Businesses on the remeasurement of deferred state taxes and valuation allowance for deferred tax assets (net of federal taxes) is $(119 million) or $(0.33) per share. Depreciation and amortization expenses on the assets of the Clean Energy Businesses $(4) million or $(0.01) a share (after-tax) were not recorded for the three months ended December 31, 2022.  See "Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale" in Note A, Note S and Note X to the financial statements in Item 8. Net income for common stock and earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2021 includes $(9) million (after-tax) or $(0.02) a share (after-tax) of income tax impact on the effects of HLBV accounting for tax equity investments in certain renewable electric projects and $(3) million or $(0.01) a share of income tax impact on the net after-tax mark-to-market effects. Net income for common stock and earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2021 includes $6 million or $0.02 a share of income tax impact for the impairment loss related to Con Edison Transmission’s investment in Stagecoach.  Net income for common stock and earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2021 includes $6 million or $0.01 a share of income tax impact for the impairment loss related to Con Edison Transmission’s investment in Mountain Valley Pipeline, LLC. See “Investments - Partial Impairment of Investment in Stagecoach Gas Services LLC (Stagecoach)” and "Investments - 2020 and 2021 Partial Impairments of Investment in Mountain Valley Pipeline, LLC (MVP)" in Note A to the financial statements in Item 8. Net income for common stock and earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2020 includes $3 million or $0.01 a share (after-tax), respectively, of income tax impact on the effects of HLBV accounting for tax equity investments in certain renewable electric projects. Net income for common stock and earnings per share from the Clean Energy Businesses for the year ended December 31, 2020 includes $4 million or $0.01 a share of income tax impact on the net after-tax mark-to-market effects. Net income for common stock and earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2020 includes $9 million or $0.03 a share of income tax impact for the impairment loss related to Con Edison Transmission’s investment in Mountain Valley Pipeline, LLC.  See “Investments - 2020 and 2021 Partial Impairments of Investment in Mountain Valley Pipeline, LLC (MVP)” in Note A to the financial statements in Item 8. (d)    Earnings per share on a diluted basis were $4.66 a share, $3.85 a share and $3.28 a share in 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. See "Earnings Per Common Share" in Note A to the financial statements in Item 8. (e)   The Clean Energy Businesses were classified as held for sale as of December 31, 2022. See “Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale” in Note A and Note X to the financial statements in Item 8. The following tables present the estimated effect of major factors on earnings per share and net income for common stock for the years ended December 31, 2022 as compared with 2021, and 2021 as compared with 2020. The Companies’ other operations and maintenance expenses for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 were as follows: (a) Includes Demand Side Management, System Benefit Charges and Public Service Law 18A assessments which are collected in revenues. (b) Includes parent company and consolidation adjustments. (c) The Clean Energy Businesses were classified as held for sale as of December 31, 2022. See “Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale” in Note A and Note X to the financial statements in Item 8. Con Edison’s principal business segments are CECONY’s regulated utility activities, O&R’s regulated utility activities, the Clean Energy Businesses and Con Edison Transmission. The Clean Energy Businesses were classified as held for sale as of December 31, 2022. See “Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale” in Note A and Note X to the financial statements in Item 8. CECONY’s principal business segments are its regulated electric, gas and steam utility activities. A discussion of the results of operations by principal business segment for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 follows. For additional business segment financial information, see Note P to the financial statements in Item 8. The Companies’ results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 were: (a)  Includes parent company and consolidation adjustments. (b)  Represents the consolidated results of operations of Con Edison and its businesses. (c)  For the year ended December 31, 2021, Con Edison Transmission recorded a $5 million loss related to a goodwill impairment on its investment in Honeoye. See Note K to the financial statements in Item 8. (d)  For the year ended December 31, 2021, Con Edison Transmission recorded pre-tax impairment losses of $212 million ($147 million, after-tax) on its investment in Stagecoach and during 2021 completed the sale of its interest in Stagecoach. For the year ended December 31, 2021, Con Edison Transmission recorded a pre-tax impairment loss of $231 million ($162 million, after-tax), to reduce the carrying value of its investment in MVP from $342 million to $111 million. See “Investments - 2020 and 2021 Partial Impairments of Investment in Mountain Valley Pipeline, LLC (MVP) ” in Note A to the financial statements in Item 8. For the yea r ended December 31, 2020, Con Edison Transmission recorded a pre-tax impairment loss of $320 million ($223 million, after-tax), to reduce the carrying value of its investment in MVP from $662 million to $342 million. See “Investments - 2020 and 2021 Partial Impairments of Investment in Mountain Valley Pipeline, LLC (MVP) ” i n Note A to the financial statements in Item 8. (e) The Clean Energy Businesses were classified as held for sale as of December 31, 2022. See “Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale” in Note A and Note X to the financial statements in Item 8. Year Ended December 31, 2022 Compared with Year Ended December 31, 2021 CECONY Electric CECONY’s results of electric operations for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared with the year ended December 31, 2021 were as follows: CECONY’s electric sales and deliveries in 2022 compared with 2021 were: (a) Revenues from electric sales are subject to a revenue decoupling mechanism, as a result of which, delivery revenues are generally not affected by changes in delivery volumes from levels assumed when rates were approved. (b) “Residential/Religious” generally includes single-family dwellings, individual apartments in multi-family dwellings, religious organizations and certain other not-for-profit organizations. (c) Other electric operating revenues generally reflect changes in the revenue decoupling mechanism current asset or regulatory liability and changes in regulatory assets and liabilities in accordance with other provisions of the company’s rate plan. (d) After adjusting for variations, primarily weather and billing days, electric delivery volumes in the company’s service area increased 3.3 percent in 2022 compared with 2021. See “Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) Impacts,” above. Operating revenues increased $945 million in 2022 compared with 2021 primarily due to higher purchased power expenses ($549 million), higher revenues from the electric rate plan ($279 million) and higher fuel expenses ($90 million). Purchased power expenses increased $549 million in 2022 compared with 2021 due to higher unit costs ($400 million) and purchased volume ($149 million). Fuel expenses increased $90 million in 2022 compared with 2021 due to higher unit costs ($106 million), offset in part by lower purchased volumes from the company’s electric generating facilities ($16 million). Other operations and maintenance expenses increased $454 million in 2022 compared with 2021 primarily due to higher costs for pension and other postretirement benefits ($355 million), higher stock-based compensation ($19 million), higher total surcharges for assessments and fees that are collected in revenues from customers ($19 million), higher municipal infrastructure support costs ($13 million), higher uncollectible expense ($8 million) and higher costs for injuries and damages ($6 million). Depreciation and amortization increased $29 million in 2022 compared with 2021 primarily due to higher electric utility plant balances. Taxes, other than income taxes increased $129 million in 2022 compared with 2021 primarily due to higher property taxes ($75 million), higher deferral of over-collected property taxes ($27 million) and higher state and local taxes ($24 million). Gas CECONY’s results of gas operations for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared with the year ended December 31, 2021 were as follows: CECONY’s gas sales and deliveries, excluding off-system sales, in 2022 compared with 2021 were: (a) Revenues from gas sales are subject to a weather normalization clause and a revenue decoupling mechanism, as a result of which, delivery revenues are generally not affected by changes in delivery volumes from levels assumed when rates were approved. (b) After adjusting for variations, primarily billing days, firm gas sales and firm retail choice volumes in the company’s service area increas ed 0.4 percent in 2022 compared with 2021. See “Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) Impacts,” above. (c) Includes 2,015 thousands and 1,921 thousands of Dt for 2022 and 2021, respectively, which are also reflected in firm retail choice customers and other. (d) Other gas operating revenues generally reflect changes in the revenue decoupling mechanism and weather normalization clause current asset or regulatory liability and changes in regulatory assets and liabilities in accordance with other provisions of the company’s rate plans.  See Note B to the financial statements in Item 8. Operating revenues increased $546 million in 2022 compared with 2021 primarily due to higher gas purchased for resale expense ($328 million) and higher gas revenues under the company's gas rate plan ($207 million). Gas purchased for resale increased $328 million in 2022 compared with 2021 due to higher unit costs ($273 million) and higher purchased volumes ($55 million). Other operations and maintenance expenses increased $104 million in 2022 compared with 2021 primarily due to higher costs for pension and other postretirement benefits ($73 million), higher municipal infrastructure support ($6 million), higher stock-based compensation ($4 million), higher uncollectible expense ($2 million), higher total surcharges for assessments and fees that are collected in revenues from customers ($2 million) and higher costs for injuries and damages ($1 million). Depreciation and amortization increased $41 million in 2022 compared with 2021 primarily due to higher gas utility plant balances. Taxes, other than income taxes increased $59 million in 2022 compared with 2021 primarily due to higher deferral of over-collected property taxes ($23 million), higher property taxes ($23 million) and higher state and local taxes ($13 million). Steam CECONY’s results of steam operations for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared with the year ended December 31, 2021 were as follows: CECONY’s steam sales and deliveries in 2022 compared with 2021 were: (a) Other steam operating revenues generally reflect changes in regulatory assets and liabilities in accordance with the company’s rate plan. See Note B to the financial statements in Item 8. (b) After adjusting for variations, primarily weather and billing days, steam sales and deliveries in the company’s service are a increas ed 1.1 percent in 2022 compared with 2021. See “Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) Impacts,” above. Operating revenues increased $61 million in 2022 compared with 2021 primarily due to higher fuel expenses ($37 million), higher purchased power expenses ($19 million) and the impact of colder winter weather ($8 million). Purchased power expenses increased $19 million in 2022 compared with 2021 due to higher unit costs ($23 million) offset in part by lower purchased volumes ($4 million). Fuel expenses increased $37 million in 2022 compared with 2021 due to higher unit costs ($28 million) and higher purchased volumes from the company’s steam generating facilities ($9 million). Other operations and maintenance expenses increased $32 million in 2022 compared with 2021 primarily due to higher costs for pension and other postretirement benefits ($30 million) and higher stock-based compensation ($2 million). Depreciation and amortization increased $3 million in 2022 compared with 2021 primarily due to higher steam utility plant balances. Taxes, other than income taxes increased $3 million in 2022 compared with 2021 primarily due to higher property taxes ($5 million) and higher state and local taxes ($2 million), offset in part by higher deferral of under-collected property taxes ($5 million). Taxes, Other Than Income Taxes At $2,887 million, taxes other than income taxes remain one of CECONY’s largest operating expenses. The principal components of, and variations in, taxes other than income taxes were: (a) Including sales tax on customers’ bills, total taxes other than income taxes in 2022 and 2021 were $3,548 million and $3,296 million, respectively. Other Income (Deductions) Other deductions increased $440 million in 2022 compared with 2021 primarily due to higher costs associated with components of pension and other postretirement benefits other than service cost ($458 million), offset in part by lower expenses resulting from investment performance in a deferred income plan ($19 million). Net Interest Expense Net interest expense increased $60 million in 2022 compared with 2021 primarily due to higher interest on long-term debt ($49 million) and higher interest on short-term debt ($29 million), offset in part by an increase in the allowance for borrowed funds used during construction ($22 million). Income Tax Expense Income taxes increased $9 million in 2022 compared with 2021 primarily due to higher income before income tax expense ($11 million) and higher state income taxes ($3 million), offset in part by higher research and development credits from prior years ($5 million). O&R Electric O&R’s results of electric operations for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared with the year ended December 31, 2021 were as follows: O&R’s electric sales and deliveries in 2022 compared with 2021 were: (a) O&R’s NY electric delivery revenues are subject to a revenue decoupling mechanism, as a result of which delivery revenues are generally not affected by changes in delivery volumes from levels assumed when rates were approved. Effective July 2021, the majority of O&R’s electric distribution revenues in NJ are subject to a conservation incentive program, as a result of which distribution revenues are generally not affected by changes in delivery volumes from levels assumed when rates were approved. O&R’s electric transmission revenues in NJ are not subject to a conservation incentive program, and as a result, changes in such volumes do impact revenues. (b) “Residential/Religious” generally includes single-family dwellings, individual apartments in multi-family dwellings, religious organizations and certain other not-for-profit organizations. (c) Other electric operating revenues generally reflect changes in the revenue decoupling mechanism current asset or regulatory liability in accordance with the company’s NY electric rate plan and changes in regulatory assets and liabilities in accordance with the company’s electric rate plans. See Note B to the financial statements in Item 8. (d) After adjusting for weather and other variations, electric delivery volumes in company’s service area increased 1.5 percent in 2022 compared with 2021. See “Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) Impacts,” above. Operating revenues increased $92 million in 2022 compared with 2021 primarily due to higher purchased power expenses ($70 million) and higher revenues from the NY electric rate plan ($18 million). Purchased power expenses increased $70 million in 2022 compared with 2021 due to higher unit costs ($59 million) and purchased volumes ($11 million). Other operations and maintenance expenses increased $26 million in 2022 compared with 2021 primarily due to higher pension costs ($13 million), increased regulatory amortizations ($11 million) and higher stock-based compensation ($2 million). Depreciation and amortization increased $2 million in 2022 compared with 2021 primarily due to higher electric utility plant balances. Gas O&R’s results of gas operations for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared with the year ended December 31, 2021 were as follows: O&R’s gas sales and deliveries, excluding off-system sales, in 2022 compared with 2021 were: (a) Revenues from NY gas sales are subject to a weather normalization clause and a revenue decoupling mechanism, as a result of which, delivery revenues are generally not affected by changes in delivery volumes from levels assumed when rates were approved. (b) After adjusting for weather and other variations, firm sales and firm retail choice volumes in the company’s service area increase d 1.2 percent in 2022 compared with 2021. See “Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) Impacts,” above. Operating revenues increased $52 million in 2022 compared with 2021 primarily due to higher gas purchased for resale ($47 million) and higher revenues from the NY gas rate plan ($13 million). Gas purchased for resale increased $47 million in 2022 compared with 2021 due to higher unit costs ($35 million) and purchased volumes ($12 million). Other operations and maintenance expenses increased $12 million in 2022 compared with 2021 primarily due to higher pension costs ($10 million) and higher stock-based compensation ($1 million). Depreciation and amortization increased $1 million in 2022 compared with 2021 primarily due to higher gas utility plant balances. Taxes, Other Than Income Taxes Taxes, other than income taxes, remained consistent in 2022 compared with 2021. The principal components of taxes, other than income taxes, were: (a) Including sales tax on customers’ bills, total taxes other than income taxes in 2022 and 2021 were $131 million and $129 million, respectively. Income Tax Expense Income taxes increased $4 million in 2022 compared with 2021 primarily due to higher income before income tax expense ($4 million) and higher state income taxes ($2 million), offset in part by an increase in the amortization of excess deferred federal income taxes ($2 million). Clean Energy Businesses The Clean Energy Businesses were classified as held for sale as of December 31, 2022. See “Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale” in Note A and Note X to the financial statements in Item 8. The Clean Energy Businesses’ results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared with the year ended December 31, 2021 were as follows: Operating revenues increased $297 million in 2022 compared with 2021 primarily due to higher wholesale revenues ($195 million), higher revenue from renewable electric projects ($92 million) and higher net mark-to-market values ($21 million), offset in part by lower energy services revenues ($11 million). Gas purchased for resale increased $179 million in 2022 compared with 2021 primarily due to higher purchased volumes. Depreciation and amortization decreased $53 million in 2022 compared with 2021 primarily due to the company ceasing to record depreciation and amortization in 2022 as the Clean Energy Businesses were classified as held for sale as of December 31, 2022. See “Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale” in Note A and Note X to the financial statements in Item 8. Other operations and maintenance expenses increased $29 million in 2022 compared with 2021 primarily due to higher costs from engineering, procurement and construction of renewable electric projects for customers. Other Income (Deductions) Other income (deductions) decreased $13 million in 2022 compared with 2021 primarily due to lower income in the 2022 period from an equity method investment in renewable electric projects accounted for under the HLBV method of accounting. Net Interest Expense Net interest expense decreased $103 million in 2022 compared with 2021 primarily due to higher unrealized gains on interest rate swaps in the 2022 period. Income Tax Expense Income taxes increased $40 million in 2022 compared with 2021 primarily due to higher income before income tax expense ($50 million), higher state income taxes ($6 million), lower research and development credits ($3 million) and an increase in the reserve for uncertain tax positions ($5 million), offset in part by a lower loss attributable to non-controlling interest ($20 million) and higher renewable energy credits ($4 million). Income (Loss) Attributable to Non-Controlling Interest Income attributable to non-controlling interest decreased $92 million in 2022 compared with 2021 primarily due to lower income in the 2021 period attributable to a tax equity investor in renewable electric projects accounted for under the HLBV method of accounting. See Note S to the financial statements in Item 8. Con Edison Transmission Other operations and maintenance decreased $6 million in 2022 comp ared with 2021 primarily due to a goodwill impairment loss on its investment in Honeoye in 2021. See Note K to the financial statements in Item 8. Other Income (Deductions) Other deductions decreased $426 million in 2022 compared with 2021 primarily due to losses in 2021 from CET’s pre-tax impairment loss of ($212 million) on its investment in Stagecoach, pre-tax impairment loss of ($231 million) on its investment in MVP in 2021, lower investment income in 2022 due to the sale of Stagecoach during 2021 ($19 million), offset in part by higher investment income from NY Transco ($4 million). See "Critical Accounting Estimates - Investments" in Item 7 and "Investments" in Note A and Note W to the financial statement in Item 8. Net Interest Expense Net interest expense decreased $4 million in 2022 compared with 2021 primarily due to the repayment of an intercompany loan from the parent company from a portion of the proceeds from the sale of Stagecoach in 2021. Income Tax Expense Income taxes increased $119 million in 2022 compared with 2021 primarily due to higher income before income tax expense ($91 million), higher state income taxes ($27 million) and a remeasurement of deferred state income tax assets and liabilities ($3 million), offset in part by lower amortization of excess deferred federal income taxes ($2 million). Other Taxes, Other Than Income Taxes Taxes, other than income taxes increased $1 million in 2022 compared with 2021 primarily due to the settlement in 2022 of the NYC capital tax audit for the years 2015 through 2018 ($1 million). Other Income (Deductions) Other income (deductions) decreased $50 million in 2022 compared with 2021 primarily due to the transaction costs at the parent company incurred from the sale of the Clean Energy Businesses ($49 million). See “Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale” in Note A and Note X to the financial statements in Item 8. Income Tax Expense Income taxes increased $136 million in 2022 compared with 2021 primarily due to higher consolidated state income taxes ($17 million), an increase in the valuation allowance on state and local net operating loss carryovers ($8 million) and a remeasurement of consolidated deferred state income tax assets and liabilities ($120 million), offset in part by lower income before income tax expense ($8 million). During the fourth quarter of 2022, Con Edison entered into a purchase and sale agreement pursuant to which Con Edison agreed to sell the Clean Energy Businesses. See Note X to the financial statements in Item 8. Con Edison analyzed the potential impact of the anticipated sale on its state apportionment factors and remeasured its consolidated state tax liability. Based on estimates, Con Edison recorded an increase to its net deferred income tax liabilities of $111 million, an increase in the valuation allowance on the deferred tax asset related to state net operating loss carryforwards of $8 million and a corresponding deferred income tax expense of $119 million (net of federal income taxes) in the fourth quarter of 2022. Con Edison also recorded a $9 million expense from a remeasurement of state deferred liability due to other dispositions. Year Ended December 31, 2021 Compared with Year Ended December 31, 2020 CECONY Electric CECONY’s results of electric operations for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared with the year ended December 31, 2020 were as follows: CECONY’s electric sales and deliveries in 2021 compared with 2020 were: (a) Revenues from electric sales are subject to a revenue decoupling mechanism, as a result of which, delivery revenues are generally not affected by changes in delivery volumes from levels assumed when rates were approved. (b) “Residential/Religious” generally includes single-family dwellings, individual apartments in multi-family dwellings, religious organizations and certain other not-for-profit organizations. (c) Other electric operating revenues generally reflect changes in the revenue decoupling mechanism current asset or regulatory liability and changes in regulatory assets and liabilities in accordance with other provisions of the company’s rate plan. (d) After adjusting for variations, primarily weather and billing days, electric delivery volumes in the company’s service area decreased 0.2 percent in 2021 compared with 2020. See “Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) Impacts,” above. Operating revenues increased $703 million in 2021 compared with 2020 primarily due to higher revenues from the electric rate plan ($243 million), higher purchased power expens es ($183 million), higher fuel expenses ($81 million), higher late payment charges ($90 million), including charges that are being recovered pursuant to a surcharge mechanism established as a result of the order issued by the NYSPSC in November 2021 and resuming billing of late payment charges, and higher incentives earned under the earnings adjustment mechanisms and positive incentives ($30 million). See "COVID-19 Regulatory Matters" in Note B to the financial statements in Item 8. Purchased power expenses increased $183 million in 2021 compared with 2020 due to higher unit costs ($112 million) and purchased volumes ($72 million). Fuel expenses increased $81 million in 2021 compared with 2020 due to higher unit costs ($79 million) and higher purchased volumes from the company’s electric generating facilities ($3 million). Other operations and maintenance expenses increased $166 million in 2021 compared with 2020 primarily due to higher costs for pension and other postretirement benefits ($47 million), higher costs related to heat, storm and emergency response ($50 million), higher stock-based compensation ($24 million), higher healthcare costs ($16 million) and higher municipal infrastructure support costs ($12 million). Depreciation and amortization increased $72 million in 2021 compared with 2020 primarily due to higher electric utility plant balances. Taxes, other t han income taxes increased $130 million in 2021 compared with 2020 primarily due to lower deferral of under-collected property taxes ($53 million), higher property taxes ($52 million) and higher state and local taxes ($23 million). CECONY’s results of gas operations for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared with the year ended December 31, 2020 were as follows: CECONY’s gas sales and deliveries, excluding off-system sales, in 2021 compared with 2020 were: (a) Revenues from gas sales are subject to a weather normalization clause and a revenue decoupling mechanism, as a result of which, delivery revenues are generally not affected by changes in delivery volumes from levels assumed when rates were approved. (b) After adjusting for variations, primarily billing days, firm gas sales and firm retail choice volumes in the company’s service area decreased 0.4 percent in 2021 compared with 2020. See “Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) Impacts,” above. (c) Includes 1,921 thousands and 3,510 thousands of Dt for 2021 and 2020, respectively, which are also reflected in firm retail choice customers and other. (d) Other gas operating revenues generally reflect changes in the revenue decoupling mechanism and weather normalization clause current asset or regulatory liability and changes in regulatory assets and liabilities in accordance with other provisions of the company’s rate plans.  See Note B to the financial statements in Item 8. Operating revenues increased $342 million in 2021 compared with 2020 primarily due to higher gas revenues  under the company's gas rate plan ($200 million), higher gas purchased for resale expense ($115 million),  higher late payment charges ($16 million), including charges that are being recovered pursuant to a surcharge mechanism established as a result of the order issued by the NYSPSC in November 2021 and resuming billing of late payment charges, and higher incentives earned under gas adjustment mechanisms (EAMs) ($11 million). See "COVID-19 Regulatory Matters" in Note B to the financial statements in Item 8. Gas purchased for resale increased $115 million in 2021 compared with 2020 due to higher unit costs ($106 million) and higher purchased volumes ($8 million). Other operations and maintenance expenses increased $13 million in 2021 compared with 2020 primarily due to higher costs for pension and other postretirement benefits ($10 million), higher total surcharges for assessments and fees that are collected in revenues from customers ($7 million) and higher stock-based compensation ($5 million), offset in part by lower municipal infrastructure support costs ($9 million). Depreciation and amortization increased $32 million in 2021 compared with 2020 primarily due to higher gas utility plant balances. Taxes, other than income taxes increased $110 million in 2021 compared with 2020 primarily due to lower deferral of under-collected property taxes ($68 million), higher property taxes ($30 million) and higher state and local taxes ($12 million). Steam CECONY’s results of steam operations for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared with the year ended December 31, 2020 were as follows: CECONY’s steam sales and deliveries in 2021 compared with 2020 were: (a) Other steam operating revenues generally reflect changes in regulatory assets and liabilities in accordance with the company’s rate plan. See Note B to the financial statements in Item 8. (b) After adjusting for variations, primarily weather and billing days, steam sales and deliveries in the company’s service are a decreased 3.4 pe rcent in 2021 compared with 2020. See “Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) Impacts,” above. Operating revenues increased $24 million in 2021 compared with 2020 primarily due to the impact of colder winter weather ($21 million) and higher purchased power expenses ($18 million), offset in part by lower fuel expenses ($8 million) and tax law surcharge ($3 million). Purchased power expenses increased $18 million in 2021 compared with 2020 due to higher unit costs ($13 million) and purchased volumes ($5 million). Fuel expenses decreased $8 million in 2021 compared with 2020 due to lower unit costs ($11 million), offset in part by higher purchased volumes from the company’s steam generating facilities ($3 million). Other operations and maintenance expenses increased $4 million in 2021 compared with 2020 primarily due to higher costs for pension and other postretirement benefits ($4 million) and higher stock-based compensation ($2 million), offset in part by lower municipal infrastructure support costs ($1 million). Depreciation and amortization increased $3 million in 2021 compared with 2020 primarily due to higher steam utility plant balances. Taxes, Other Than Income Taxes At $2,696 million, taxes other than income taxes remain one of CECONY’s largest operating expenses. The principal components of, and variations in, taxes other than income taxes were: (a) Including sales tax on customers’ bills, total taxes other than income taxes in 2021 and 2020 were $3,296 million and $2,989 million, respectively. Other Income (Deductions) Other deductions decreased $63 million in 2021 compared with 2020 primarily due to lower costs associated with components of pension and other postretirement benefits other than service cost ($61 million). Net Interest Expense Net interest expen se increased $23 million in 2021 compared with 2020 primarily due to higher interest on long-term debt ($42 million), offset in part by lower interest accrued on the system benefit charge liability ($7 million), lower interest expense for short-term debt ($4 million), lower interest on deposits ($3 million) and lower interest accrued on deferred storm costs ($2 million). Income Tax Expense Income taxes increased $31 million in 2021 compared with 2020 primarily due to higher income before income tax expense ($40 million) and higher state income taxes ($9 million), offset in part by a higher favorable tax adjustment in 2021 for the prior year tax return primarily due to an increase in the general business tax credit ($6 million), higher tax benefits in 2021 from research credits ($5 million) and the absence of the amortization of deficit deferred state income taxes in 2020 ($6 million). O&R Electric O&R’s results of electric operations for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared with the year ended December 31, 2020 were as follows: O&R’s electric sales and deliveries in 2021 compared with 2020 were: (a) O&R’s NY electric delivery revenues are subject to a revenue decoupling mechanism, as a result of which delivery revenues are generally not affected by changes in delivery volumes from levels assumed when rates were approved. Effective July 2021, the majority of O&R’s electric distribution revenues in NJ are subject to a conservation incentive program, as a result of which distribution revenues are generally not affected by changes in delivery volumes from levels assumed when rates were approved. O&R’s electric transmission revenues in NJ are not subject to a conservation incentive program, and as a result, changes in such volumes do impact revenues. (b) “Residential/Religious” generally includes single-family dwellings, individual apartments in multi-family dwellings, religious organizations and certain other not-for-profit organizations. (c) Other electric operating revenues generally reflect changes in the revenue decoupling mechanism current asset or regulatory liability in accordance with the company’s NY electric rate plan and changes in regulatory assets and liabilities in accordance with the company’s electric rate plans. See Note B to the financial statements in Item 8. (d) After adjusting for weather and other variations, electric delivery volumes in company’s service area increased 1.1 percent in 2021 compared with 2020. See “Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) Impacts,” above. Operating revenues increased $52 million in 2021 compared with 2020 primarily due to higher purchased power expenses ($37 million) and higher revenues from the NY electric rate plan ($13 million). Purchased power expenses increas ed $37 million in 2021 compared with 2020 due to higher unit costs ($35 million) and purchased volumes ($2 million). Other operations and maintenance expenses increased $7 million in 2021 compared with 2020 primarily due to higher storm-related costs. Depreciation and amortization increased $4 million in 2021 compared with 2020 primarily due to higher electric utility plant balances. Taxes, other than income taxes increased $3 million in 2021 compared with 2020 primarily due to higher property taxes ($2 million). Gas O&R’s results of gas operations for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared with the year ended December 31, 2020 were as follows: O&R’s gas sales and deliveries, excluding off-system sales, in 2021 compared with 2020 were: (a) Revenues from NY gas sales are subject to a weather normalization clause and a revenue decoupling mechanism, as a result of which, delivery revenues are generally not affected by changes in delivery volumes from levels assumed when rates were approved. (b) After adjusting for weather and other variations, firm sales and firm retail choice volumes in the company’s service area increased 0.2 pe rcent in 2021 compared with 2020. See “Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) Impacts,” above. Operating revenues increased $27 million in 2021 compared with 2020 primarily due to higher gas purchased for resale expense. Gas purchased for resale increased $27 million in 2021 compared with 2020 due to higher unit costs ($15 million) and purchased volumes ($12 million). Other operations and maintenance expenses decreased $4 million in 2021 compared with 2020 primarily due to lower pension costs ($2 million) and lower spending on gas programs ($2 million). Depreciation and amortization increased $1 million in 2021 compared with 2020 primarily due to higher gas utility plant balances. Taxes, other than income taxes increased $1 million in 2021 compared with 2020 primarily due to higher property taxes. Taxes, Other Than Income Taxes Taxes, other than income taxes, increased $4 million in 2021 compared with 2020. The principal components of taxes, other than income taxes, were: (a) Including sales tax on customers’ bills, total taxes other than income taxes in 2021 and 2020 were $129 million and $121 million, respectively. Income Tax Expense Income taxes remained unchanged in 2021 compared with 2020 primarily due to higher income before income tax expense ($1 million) entirely offset by lower state income taxes, primarily due to a decrease in the amortization of New York’s metropolitan transportation business tax surcharge in 2021 ($1 million). Clean Energy Businesses The Clean Energy Businesses were classified as held for sale as of December 31, 2022. See “Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale” in Note A and Note X to the financial statements in Item 8. The Clean Energy Businesses’ results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared with the year ended December 31, 2020 were as follows: Operating revenues increased $286 million in 2021 compared with 2020 primarily due to higher revenue from renewable electric projects ($211 million), higher wholesale revenues ($35 million) and higher energy services revenues ($47 million), offset in part by lower net mark-to-market values ($7 million). Gas purchased for resale increased $21 million in 2021 compared with 2020 primarily due to higher purchased volumes. Other operations and maintenance expenses increased $247 million in 2021 compared with 2020 primarily due to higher costs from engineering, procurement and construction of renewable electric projects for customers. Other Income (Deductions) Other income (deductions) decreased $14 million in 2021 compared with 2020 primarily due to lower income in the 2021 period from an equity method investment in renewable electric projects accounted for under the HLBV method of accounting. Net Interest Expense Net interest expense decreased $128 million in 2021 compared with 2020 primarily due to lower unrealized losses on interest rate swaps in the 2021 period. Income Tax Expense Income taxes increased $88 million in 2021 compared with 2020 primarily due to higher income before income tax expense ($30 million), lower income attributable to non-controlling interest ($47 million), higher state income taxes ($7 million) and the absence of a tax benefit due to the change in the federal corporate income tax rate recognized for a loss carryback from the 2018 tax year to the 2013 tax year as allowed under the CARES Act signed into law during the first quarter of 2020 ($4 million). See Note L to the financial statements in Item 8. Income (Loss) Attributable to Non-Controlling Interest Income attributable to non-controlling interest decreased $195 million in 2021 compared with 2020 primarily due to lower income in the 2021 period attributable to a tax equity investor in renewable electric projects accounted for under the HLBV method of accounting. See Note S to the financial statements in Item 8. Con Edison Transmission Other operations and maintenance increased $8 million in 2021 comp ared with 2020 primarily due to a goodwill impairment loss on its investment in Honeoye in 2021. See Note K to the financial statements in Item 8. Other Income (Deductions) Other deductions decreased $192 million in 2021 compared with 2020 primarily due to lower losses in 2021 from CET’s pre-tax impairment loss of $212 million on its investment in Stagecoach, pre-tax impairment loss of $231 million on its investment in MVP in 2021, lower investment income in 2021 due to the sale of Stagecoach during 2021 ($19 million) and foregoing AFUDC income from MVP starting January 2021 until significant construction resumes ($60 million), compared to the pre-tax impairment loss of $320 million on its investment in MVP in 2020. See "Critical Accounting Estimates - Investments" in Item 7 and "Investments" in Note A and Note W to the financial statement in Item 8. Net Interest Expense Net interest expense decreased $9 million in 2021 compared with 2020 primarily due to the repayment of an intercompany loan from the parent company from a portion of the proceeds from the sale of Stagecoach. Income Tax Expense Income taxes decreased $48 million in 2021 compared with 2020 primarily due to lower income before income tax expense ($40 million), lower state income taxes ($12 million), offset in part by higher amortization of excess deferred federal income taxes in 2021 ($2 million). Other Taxes, Other Than Income Taxes Taxes, other than income taxes decreased $6 million in 2021 compared with 2020 primarily due to adjustments made to the New York City capital tax for prior periods in the 2020 period. Other Income (Deductions) Other income (deductions) increased $4 million in 2021 compared with 2020 primarily due to the elimination of CECONY's goodwill impairment related to Con Edison Transmission's investment in Honeoye. Income Tax Expense Income taxes increased $29 million in 2021 compared with 2020 primarily due to higher income before income tax expense ($2 million), lower consolidated state income tax benefits in 2021 ($16 million) and the absence of a change to the New York City valuation allowance in 2021 ($10 million). During the fourth quarter of 2020, Con Edison reversed a portion of its valuation allowance that was recorded against the deferred tax asset established for the New York City NOL. Management has reassessed its ability to realize a portion of the deferred tax benefits generated primarily by its renewable energy projects due to the future reversal of temporary differences associated with the accelerated tax depreciation and by implementing its strategy to secure tax equity financing from third parties for which certain tax deductions and amortization will be specifically allocated to members outside of the consolidated group. Liquidity and Capital Resources The Companies’ liquidity reflects cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities, as shown on their respective consolidated statements of cash flows and as discussed below. The principal factors affecting Con Edison’s liquidity are its investments in the Utilities, the Clean Energy Businesses and Con Edison Transmission, the dividends it pays to its shareholders and the dividends it receives from its subsidiaries and cash flows from financing activities discussed below. The principal factors affecting CECONY’s liquidity are its cash flows from operating activities, cash used in investing activities (including construction expenditures), the dividends it pays to Con Edison and cash flows from financing activities discussed below. The Companies generally maintain minimal cash balances and use short-term borrowings to meet their working capital needs and other cash requirements. The Companies repay their short-term borrowings using funds from long-term financings and operating activities. The Utilities’ cost of capital, including working capital, is reflected in the rates they charge to their customers. Each of the Companies believes that it will be able to meet its reasonably likely short-term and long-term cash requirements. See “The Companies Require Access To Capital Markets To Satisfy Funding Requirements,” "Changes To Tax Laws Could Adversely Affect the Companies," “The Companies Face Risks Related to Health Epidemics And Other Outbreaks, Including The COVID-19 Pandemic,” and “The Companies Also Face Other Risks That Are Beyond Their Control” in Item 1A, and “Capital Requirements and Resources” in Item 1. The Companies’ cash, temporary cash investments and restricted cash resulting from operating, investing and financing activities for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 are summarized as follows: (a)  Includes parent company and consolidation adjustments. (b)  Represents the consolidated results of operations of Con Edison and its businesses. (c)  See "Reconciliation of Cash, Temporary Cash Investments and Restricted Cash" in Note A to the financial statements in Item 8. (d)  The Clean Energy Businesses were classified as held for sale as of December 31, 2022. See “Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale” in Note A and Note X to the financial statements in Item 8. Cash Flows from Operating Activities The Utilities’ cash flows from operating activities primarily reflect their energy sales and deliveries and cost of operations. The volume of energy sales and deliveries is primarily affected by factors external to the Utilities, such as customer demand, weather, market prices for energy and economic conditions. Measures that promote distributed energy resources, such as distributed generation, demand reduction and energy efficiency, also affect the volume of energy sales and deliveries. See "Competition" and "Environmental Matters – Clean Energy Future – Reforming the Energy Vision" and “Environmental Matters – Climate Change” in Item 1. During 2020 and 2021, the decline in business activity in the Utilities’ service territory due to the COVID-19 pandemic and the Utilities' suspension of service disconnections, bill collection activities and certain charges and fees resulted in a slower recovery of cash from outstanding customer accounts receivable balances, material increases in customer accounts receivable balances, increases to the allowance for uncollectible accounts, and may result in increases to write-offs of customer accounts, as compared to prior to the COVID-19 pandemic. Under the revenue decoupling mechanisms in the Utilities’ NY electric and gas rate plans, changes in delivery volumes from levels assumed when rates were approved may affect the timing of cash flows, but largely not net income. The prices at which the Utilities provide energy to their customers are determined in accordance with their rate plans. However, increases in electric and gas commodity prices, coupled with the decline in business activity due to the COVID-19 pandemic, may further contribute to a slower recovery of cash from outstanding customer accounts receivable balances, increases to the allowance for uncollectible accounts, and increases to write-offs of customer accounts receivable balances. In general, changes in the Utilities’ cost of purchased power, fuel and gas may affect the timing of cash flows, but not net income, because the costs are recovered in accordance with rate plans. See “Recoverable Energy Costs” in Note A to the financial statements in Item 8. The Utilities’ NY rate plans allow them to defer costs resulting from a change in legislation, regulation and related actions that have taken effect during the term of the rate plans once the costs exceed a specified threshold. Increases to the allowance for uncollectible accounts related to the COVID-19 pandemic have been deferred pursuant to the legislative, regulatory and related actions provisions of their rate plans. In November 2021, the NYSPSC issued an order establishing a surcharge recovery mechanism commencing December 1, 2021 through December 31, 2022 for CECONY to collect late payment charges and fees that were not billed for the year ended December 31, 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The order also established a surcharge recovery or sur-credit mechanism for any fee deferrals for 2021 and 2022. In April 2022, the NYSPSC approved the October 2021 joint proposal for new electric and gas rates for O&R for the three-year period from January 2022 through December 2024 (the Joint Proposal) that includes certain COVID-19 provisions, such as: recovery of 2020 late payment charges over three years; reconciliation of late payment charges to amounts reflected in rates for years 2021 through 2024; and reconciliation of write-offs of customer accounts receivable balances to amounts reflected in rates from January 1, 2020 through December 31, 2024. In June 2022 and January 2023, the NYSPSC issued orders implementing COVID-19 arrears assistance programs that provides credits towards the arrears balances of electric and gas customers of CECONY and O&R. See “The Companies Face Risks Related To Health Epidemics And Other Outbreaks, Including The COVID-19 Pandemic,” in Item 1A, “Rate Plans,” "COVID-19 Regulatory Matters" and “Other Regulatory Matters” in Note B to the financial statements in Item 8 and "Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) Impacts - Liquidity and Financing," above. Pursuant to their rate plans, the Utilities have recovered from customers a portion of the tax liability they will pay in the future as a result of temporary differences between the book and tax basis of assets and liabilities. These temporary differences affect the timing of cash flows, but not net income, as the Companies are required to record deferred tax assets and liabilities at the current corporate tax rate for the temporary differences. For the Utilities, credits to their customers of the net benefits of the TCJA, including the reduction of the corporate tax rate to 21 percent, decrease cash flows from operating activities. Pursuant to their rate plans, the Utilities also recover from customers the amount of property taxes they will pay. The payment of property taxes by the Utilities affects the timing of cash flows and increases the amount of short-term borrowings issued by the Utilities when property taxes are due and as property taxes increase, but generally does not impact net income.  See “Changes To Tax Laws Could Adversely Affect the Companies,” in Item 1A, “Federal Income Tax” in Note A, “Rate Plans” in Note B, "COVID-19 Regulatory Matters" in Note B, “Other Regulatory Matters” in Note B and Note L to the financial statements in Item 8 and "Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) Impacts - Liquidity and Financing," above. The Clean Energy Businesses were classified as held for sale as of December 31, 2022. See “Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale” in Note A and Note X to the financial statements in Item 8. Net income is the result of cash and non-cash (or accrual) transactions. Only cash transactions affect the Companies’ cash flows from operating activities. Principal non-cash charges or credits include depreciation, deferred income tax expense, amortizations of certain regulatory assets and liabilities and accrued unbilled revenue. Non-cash charges or credits may also be accrued under the revenue decoupling and c ost reconciliation mechanisms in the Utilities’ NY electric and gas rate plans. See “Rate Plans – CECONY– Electric and Gas" and "Rate Plans – O&R New York – Electric and Gas” in Note B to the financial statements in Item 8. For Con Edison, 2021 net income also included non-cash losses recognized with respect to impairments of Con Edison Transmission’s investments in MVP, Stagecoach and Honeoye. For Con Edison, 2020 net income included a non-cash loss recognized with respect to a partial impairment of Con Edison Transmission’s investment in MVP. See “Investments” in Note A and Note K to the financial statements in Item 8. Net cash flows from operating activities in 2022 for Con Edison and CECONY were $1,202 million and $1,077 million higher, respectively, than in 2021. The changes in net cash flows for Con Edison and CECONY primarily reflect an increase in accounts payable ($514 million and $257 million, respectively), lower pension and retiree benefit contributions ($433 million and $407 million, respectively) and lower prepayments, other receivables and other current assets ($265 million and $410 million, respectively). Net cash flows from operating activities in 2021 for Con Edison and CECONY were $535 million and $493 million higher, respectively, than in 2020. The changes in net cash flows for Con Edison and CECONY primarily reflect a lower increase of accounts receivable balances from customers, net of allowance for uncollectible accounts ($223 million and $196 million, respectively) (see “COVID-19 Regulatory Matters” in Note B to the financial statements in Item 8 and “Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) Impacts - Accounting Considerations” and “Liquidity and Financing,” above), higher recoveries of depreciation expense ($112 million and $107 million, respectively), lower system benefit charge ($85 million and $80 million, respectively), lower superfund and environmental remediation costs ($12 million and $12 million , respectively) and lower pension and retiree benefit contributions ($6 million and $5 million, respectively). For Con Edison, changes in net cash flows reflects lower other receivables and other current assets ($31 million), lower taxes receivable ($19 million), lower revenue decoupling receivable ($8 million), offset in part by a change in pension and retiree benefit obligations, net ($19 million) and for CECONY, a change in pension and retiree benefit obligations, net ($30 million). The change in net cash flows also reflects the timing of payments for and recovery of energy costs. This timing is reflected within changes to accounts receivable – customers, recoverable and refundable energy costs within other regulatory assets and liabilities and accounts payable balances. Cash Flows Used in Investing Activities Net cash flows used in investing activities for Con Edison and CECONY were $1,081 million and $197 million higher, respectively, in 2022 than in 2021. The change for Con Edison primarily reflects a decrease due to receiving proceeds from the completion of the sale of Stagecoach in 2021 ($629 million), higher utility construction expenditures ($194 million) and a decrease due to receiving proceeds from the divestiture of renewable electric projects at the Clean Energy Businesses in 2021 ($183 million). The change for CECONY primarily reflects an increase in utility construction expenditures ($183 million). Pursuant to their rate plans, the Utilities recover the cost of utility construction expenditures from customers, including an approved rate of return (before and after being placed in service and or AFUDC before being placed in service). Increases in the amount of utility construction expenditures may temporarily increase the amount of short-term debt issued by the Utilities prior to the long-term financing of such amounts. Net cash flows used in investing activities for Con Edison and CECONY were $740 million lower and $313 million higher, respectively, in 2021 than in 2020. The change for Con Edison primarily reflects proceeds from the completion of the sale of Stagecoach ($629 million), a decrease in non-utility construction expenditures at the Clean Energy Businesses ($261 million) and proceeds from the divestiture of renewable electric projects at the Clean Energy Businesses ($183 million), offset in part by an increase in utility construction expenditures at CECONY ($301 million) and O&R ($3 million). Pursuant to their rate plans, the Utilities recover the cost of utility construction expenditures from customers, including an approved rate of return (before and after being placed in service and or AFUDC before being placed in service). Increases in the amount of utility construction expenditures may temporarily increase the amount of short-term debt issued by the Utilities prior to the long-term financing of such amounts. Cash Flows From Financing Activities Net cash flows from financing activities in 2022 for Con Edison and CECONY were $553 million and $597 million lower, respectively, than in 2021. Net cash flows from financing activities in 2021 for Con Edison and CECONY were $1,784 million higher and $461 million lower, respectively, than in 2020. Net cash flows from financing activities during the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 reflect the following Con Edison transactions: 2022 • Entered into and borrowed $400 million under a 364-Day Senior Unsecured Term Loan Credit Agreement, the proceeds from which were used for general corporate purposes. See Note D to the financial statements in Item 8; • Redeemed at maturity $293 million of 8.71 percent senior unsecured notes. 2021 • Issued 10,100,000 shares of its common stock resulting in net proceeds of approximately $775 million, after issuance expenses. The net proceeds from the sale of the common shares were invested by Con Edison in CECONY, for funding of its construction expenditures and for its other general corporate purposes; • Redeemed at maturity $500 million of 2.00 percent 5-year debentures with proceeds from a $500 million borrowing under an April 2021 Credit Agreement, which Con Edison prepaid in full in July 2021; and • Optionally prepaid the remaining $675 million outstanding under a February 2019 term loan prior to its maturity in June 2021. 2020 • Issued 1,050,000 shares of its common shares for $88 million upon physical settlement of the remaining shares subject to its May 2019 forward sale agreement. Con Edison used the proceeds to invest in CECONY for funding of its capital requirements and other general corporate purposes; • Borrowed $820 million pursuant to a credit agreement that was converted to a term loan (the “July 2020 Term Loan”). Con Edison used the proceeds from the borrowing for general corporate purposes, including repayment of short-term debt bearing interest at variable rates. The July 2020 Term Loan was prepaid in full in December 2020; • Issued 7,200,000 common shares resulting in net proceeds of $553 million, after issuance expenses. The net proceeds from the sale of the common shares, together with the net proceeds from the sale of $650 million aggregate principal amount of 0.65 percent debentures due 2023, were used to prepay in full the July 2020 Term Loan. The remaining net proceeds from the sale of the common shares were invested by Con Edison in its subsidiaries, principally CECONY and O&R, and for other general corporate purposes; and • Issued $650 million aggregate principal amount of 0.65 percent debentures, due 2023, with an option to redeem at par, in whole or in part, on or after December 1, 2021. The proceeds from the $650 million refinancing, together with a portion of the proceeds from the sale of common shares, were used to prepay in full the July 2020 Term Loan. Con Edison’s cash flows from financing activities in 2022, 2021 and 2020 also reflect the proceeds, and reduction in cash used for reinvested dividends, resulting from the issuance of common shares under the company’s dividend reinvestment, stock purchase and long-term incentive plans of $88 million, $109 million and $106 million, respectively. Net cash flows from financing activities during the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 reflect the following CECONY transactions: 2022 • Issued $700 million aggregate principal amount of 6.15 percent debentures, due 2052, the net proceeds from the sale of which were used to repay short-term borrowings and for other general corporate purposes. 2021 • Issued $600 million aggregate principal amount of 3.20 percent debentures, due 2051, the net proceeds from the sale of which were used to repay short-term borrowings and for other general corporate purposes; • Issued $900 million aggregate principal amount of 2.40 percent debentures, due 2031, the aggregate net proceeds from the sales of which were used to redeem at maturity its $640 million floating rate 3-year debentures and for other general corporate purposes, including repayment of short-term debt; and • Issued $750 million aggregate principal amount of 3.60 percent debentures, due 2061, the net proceeds from the sale of which will be used to pay or reimburse the payment of, in whole or in part, existing and new qualifying eligible green expenditures, such as energy efficiency and clean transportation expenditures, that include those funded on or after January 1, 2021 until the maturity date of the debentures. Pending the allocation of the net proceeds to finance or refinance eligible green expenditures, CECONY used the net proceeds for repayment of short-term debt and temporarily placed the remaining net proceeds in short-term interest-bearing instruments. 2020 • Issued $600 million aggregate principal amount of 3.00 percent debentures, due 2060, the net proceeds from the sale of which were used to repay short-term borrowings and for other general corporate purposes; • Redeemed at maturity $350 million of 4.45 percent 10-year debentures; and • Issued $600 million aggregate principal amount of 3.35 percent debentures, due 2030 and $1,000 million aggregate principal amount of 3.95 percent debentures, due 2050, the net proceeds from the sale of which will be used to pay or reimburse the payment of, in whole or in part, existing and new qualifying eligible green expenditures, such as energy efficiency and clean transportation expenditures, that include those funded on or after January 1, 2018 until the maturity date of each series of the debentures. Pending the allocation of the net proceeds to finance or refinance eligible green expenditures, CECONY used a portion of the net proceeds for repayment of short-term debt and temporarily placed the remaining net proceeds in short-term interest-bearing instruments. Net cash flows from financing activities during the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 also reflect the following O&R transactions: 2022 • Issued $100 million aggregate principal amount of 5.70 percent debentures, due 2032, the net proceeds from the sale of which were used to repay short-term borrowings and for other general corporate purposes. 2021 • Issued $45 million aggregate principal amount of 2.31 percent debentures, due 2031 and $30 million aggregate principal amount of 3.17 percent debentures, due 2051, the net proceeds from the sales of which were used to repay short-term borrowings and for other general corporate purposes. 2020 • Issued $35 million aggregate principal amount of 2.02 percent debentures, due 2030, and $40 million aggregate principal amount of 3.24 percent debentures, due 2050, the net proceeds from the sales of which were used to repay short-term borrowings and for other general corporate purposes. Net cash flows from financing activities during the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 also reflect the following Clean Energy Businesses transactions: 2022 • Entered into and borrowed $150 million under a 364-Day Senior Unsecured Term Loan Credit Agreement guaranteed by Con Edison, the proceeds from which were used for general corporate purposes; 2021 • Borrowed $250 million at a variable rate, due 2028, secured by equity interests in four of the company’s solar electric production projects, the interest rate for which was swapped to a fixed rate of 3.39 percent; • Entered into an agreement with a tax equity investor for the financing of a portfolio of three of the Clean Energy Businesses’ solar electric production projects (CED Nevada Virginia). Under the financing, the tax equity investor acquired a noncontrolling interest in the portfolio and will receive a percentage of earnings, tax attributes and cash flows. As of December 31, 2021, the tax equity investor fully funded its $263 million financing obligation. The Clean Energy Businesses will continue to consolidate this entity and will report the noncontrolling tax equity investor’s interest in the tax equity arrangement. See Note Q to the financial statements in Item 8; • Prepaid in full $249 million of borrowings outstanding under, and terminated, a $613 million variable-rate construction loan facility that was secured by and used to fund construction costs for CED Nevada Virginia; and • Issued $229 million aggregate principal amount of 3.77 percent senior notes, due 2046, secured by equity interests in CED Nevada Virginia. 2020 • Borrowed $165 million under a $613 million variable-rate construction loan facility that was terminated in 2021 that was secured by and used to fund construction costs for CED Nevada Virginia. Cash flows from financing activities of the Companies also reflect commercial paper issuance. The commercial paper amounts outstanding at December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 and the average daily balances for 2022, 2021 and 2020 for Con Edison and CECONY were as follows: Common stock issuances and external borrowings are sources of liquidity that could be affected by changes in credit ratings, financial performance and capital market conditions. For information about the Companies’ credit ratings and certain financial ratios, see “Capital Requirements and Resources” in Item 1. Capital Requirements and Resources For information about capital requirements, contractual obligations and capital resources, see “Capital Requirements and Resources” in Item 1. Assets, Liabilities and Equity The Companies’ assets, liabilities and equity at December 31, 2022 and 2021 are summarized as follows: (a)  Includes parent company and consolidation adjustments. (b)  Represents the consolidated results of operations of Con Edison and its businesses. (c)  The Clean Energy Businesses were classified as held for sale as of December 31, 2022. CECONY Current assets at December 31, 2022 were $544 million higher than at December 31, 2021. The change in current assets primarily reflects increases in accounts receivables, net of allowance for uncollectible accounts ($258 million) (see “COVID-19 Regulatory Matters” in Note B to the financial statements in Item 8 and “Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) Impacts - Accounting Considerations” and “Liquidity and Financing,” above), an increase in cash and temporary cash investments ($136 million),  higher fuel oil, gas in storage, materials and supplies, at average cost ($71 million), an increase in other receivables, net of allowance for uncollectible accounts ($26 million) and an increase to accrued unbilled revenue ($24 million). Investments at December 31, 2022 were $69 million lower than at December 31, 2021. The change in investments primarily reflects decreases in supplemental retirement income plan assets ($60 million) and deferred income plan assets ($9 million). See "Investments" in Note A and Note E to the financial statements in Item 8. Net plant at December 31, 2022 was $2,398 million higher than at December 31, 2021. The change in net plant primarily reflects an increase in electric ($1,790 million), gas ($1,017 million), steam ($107 million) and general ($25 million) plant balances and an increase in construction work in progress ($283 million), offset in part by an increase in accumulated depreciation ($824 million). Other noncurrent assets at December 31, 2022 were $1,917 million higher than at December 31, 2021. The change in other noncurrent assets primarily reflects an increase in pension and retiree benefits ($1,507 million) and an increase in the regulatory asset for system peak reduction and energy efficiency programs ($496 million), partially offset in part by property tax reconciliation ($81 million) and deferred derivative losses ($19 million). The change in the regulatory asset also reflects the period's amortization of accounting costs. See Notes B, E, and F to the financial statements in Item 8. Current liabilities at December 31, 2022 were $1,715 million higher than at December 31, 2021. The change in current liabilities primarily reflects increases in notes payable ($939 million), accounts payable ($478 million), deferred derivative gains ($155 million) and accrued taxes to affiliated companies ($79 million). Noncurrent liabilities at December 31, 2022 were $1,811 million higher than at December 31, 2021. The change in noncurrent liabilities primarily reflects an increase in regulatory liabilities for unrecognized other postretirement costs ($1,536 million), allowance for cost of removal less salvage ($104 million) and pension and other postretirement benefit deferrals ($43 million), offset in part by a decrease in the liability for pension and retiree benefits ($143 million) as a result of the final actuarial valuation of the pension and other retiree benefit plans, as measured at December 31, 2022, in accordance with the accounting rules for retirement benefits. See Notes E and F to the financial statements in Item 8. Long-term debt at December 31, 2022 was $698 million higher than at December 31, 2021. The change in long-term debt primarily reflects the November 2022 issuance of $700 million of debentures. See "Liquidity and Capital Resources - Cash Flows From Financing Activities" above and Note C to the financial statements in Item 8. Equity at December 31, 2022 was $566 million higher than at December 31, 2021. The change in equity primarily reflects net income for the year ($1,390 million) and capital contributions from parent ($150 million) in 2022, offset in part by common stock dividends to parent ($978 million) in 2022. O&R Current assets at December 31, 2022 were $42 million higher than at December 31, 2021. The change in current assets primarily reflects increases in accrued unbilled revenue ($20 million), gas in storage, at average cost ($12 million) and temporary cash investments ($6 million) and accounts receivables, net of allowance for uncollectible accounts ($2 million) (see “COVID-19 Regulatory Matters” in Note B to the financial statements in Item 8 and “Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) Impacts - Accounting Considerations” and “Liquidity and Financing,” above). Net plant at December 31, 2022 was $139 million higher than at December 31, 2021. The change in net plant primarily reflects an increase in electric ($91 million), gas ($59 million), and general ($10 million) plant balances and an increase in construction work in progress ($48 million), offset in part by an increase in accumulated depreciation ($69 million). Other noncurrent assets at December 31, 2022 were $44 million higher than at December 31, 2021. The change in other noncurrent assets primarily reflects an increase in pension and retiree benefits ($56 million) and an increase in other deferred charges and noncurrent assets ($6 million), offset in part by a decrease in regulatory assets ($18 million). Current liabilities at December 31, 2022 were $37 million higher than at December 31, 2020. The change in current liabilities primarily reflects an increase in accounts payables ($43 million), regulatory liabilities ($15 million) and accounts payables to affiliates ($11 million), offset in part by a decrease in notes payable ($18 million) and system benefit charge ($12 million). Noncurrent liabilities at December 31, 2022 were $39 million higher than at December 31, 2021. The change in noncurrent liabilities primarily reflects an increase in the regulatory liabilities for unrecognized pension and other postretirement costs ($13 million), allowance for cost of removal less salvage ($12 million) and long-term deferred derivative gains ($9 million). Long-term debt at December 31, 2022 was $100 million higher than at December 31, 2021. The change in long-term debt reflects the November 2022 issuance of $100 million of debentures. See "Liquidity and Capital Resources - Cash Flows From Financing Activities" above. Equity at December 31, 2022 was $43 million higher than at December 31, 2021. The change in equity primarily reflects net income for the year ($88 million) and an increase in other comprehensive income ($12 million), offset in part by common stock dividends to parent ($57 million) in 2022. Clean Energy Businesses Current assets at December 31, 2022 were $337 million higher than at December 31, 2021. The change in current assets primarily reflects increases in other receivables ($125 million), restricted cash ($69 million), accrued unbilled revenue ($48 million), other currents assets ($42 million) and prepayments ($11 million). Net plant at December 31, 2022 was $351 million higher than at December 31, 2021. The change in net plant primarily reflects the divestiture of renewable electric projects in 2021. Other noncurrent assets at December 31, 2022 were $18 million lower than at December 31, 2021. The change in other noncurrent assets primarily reflects decreases in intangible assets ($71 million) and other long noncurrent assets ($27 million), offset in part by an increase in the long-term fair value of derivative assets ($78 million). Current liabilities at December 31, 2022 were $585 million higher than at December 31, 2021. The change in current liabilities primarily reflects increases in accounts payable ($223 million), current long term debt ($206 million) and term loan ($150 million), offset in part by a decrease in the fair value of derivative liabilities ($36 million). Noncurrent liabilities at December 31, 2022 were $217 million higher than at December 31, 2021. The change in noncurrent liabilities primarily reflects an increase in deferred taxes ($250 million), offset in part by a decrease in the fair value of derivative liabilities ($30 million). Long-term debt at December 31, 2022 was $315 million lower than at December 31, 2021. The change in long-term debt primarily reflects the timing of principal loan repayments. Equity at December 31, 2022 was $183 million higher than at December 31, 2021. The change in equity primarily reflects an increase in net income for common stock ($382 million) offset in part by a decrease in noncontrolling tax equity interest ($97 million) and common stock dividends to parent ($98 million) in 2022. Con Edison Transmission Investments at December 31, 2022 were $63 million higher than at December 31, 2021. The increase in investments primarily reflects the additional investment in NY Transco ($64 million). Current liabilities at December 31, 2022 were $63 million higher than at December 31, 2021. The change in current liabilities primarily reflects an increase in short-term borrowings under an intercompany capital funding facility. Noncurrent liabilities at December 31, 2022 were $4 million higher than at December 31, 2021. The change in noncurrent liabilities reflects primarily the remeasurement of deferred state income taxes related to prior year dispositions ($4 million). See "Investments - 2020 and 2021 Partial Impairments of Investment in Mountain Valley Pipeline, LLC (MVP)” in Note A to the financial statements in Item 8. Regulatory Matters For information about the Utilities’ rate plans and other regulatory matters affecting the Companies, see “Utility Regulation” in Item 1 and Note B to the financial statements in Item 8. Risk Factors The Companies’ businesses are influenced by many factors that are difficult to predict, and that involve uncertainties that may materially affect actual operating results, cash flows and financial condition. See “Risk Factors” in Item 1A. Critical Accounting Estimates The Companies’ financial statements reflect the application of certain critical accounting estimates, which conform to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The Companies’ critical accounting estimates include assumptions applied to accounting for: pensions and other postretirement benefits, contingencies, derivative instruments, investments, allowance for uncollectible accounts receivable, asset retirement obligations, and for Con Edison, the use of the hypothetical liquidation at book value method. Also, see “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Other Matters” in Note A to the financial statements in Item 8. Accounting for Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits The Utilities provide pensions and other postretirement benefits to substantially all of their employees and retirees. The Clean Energy Businesses and Con Edison Transmission also provide such benefits to transferred employees who previously worked for the Utilities. The Companies account for these benefits in accordance with the accounting rules for retirement benefits. In addition, the Utilities apply the accounting rules for regulated operations to account for the regulatory treatment of these obligations (which, as described in Note B to the financial statements in Item 8, reconciles the amounts reflected in rates for the costs of the benefit to the costs actually incurred). In applying these accounting policies, the Companies have made critical estimates related to actuarial assumptions, including assumptions of expected returns on plan assets, discount rates, health care cost trends and future compensation. See Notes A, E and F to the financial statements in Item 8 for information about the Companies’ pension and other postretirement benefits, the actuarial assumptions, actual performance, amortization of investment and other actuarial gains and losses and calculated plan costs for 2022, 2021 and 2020. The discount rate for determining the present value of future period benefit payments is determined using a model to match the durations of Aa rated (by either Moody’s or S&P) corporate bonds with the projected stream of benefit payments. In determining the health care cost trend rate, the Companies review actual recent cost trends and projected future trends. The cost of pension and other postretirement benefits in future periods will depend on actual returns on plan assets, assumptions for future periods, contributions and benefit experience. Con Edison’s and CECONY’s current estimates for 2023 are decreases, compared with 2022, in their pension and other postretirement benefits costs of $543 million and $515 million, respectively, largely driven by increases in the discount rates used to determine plan liabilities. See Notes E and F to the financial statements in Item 8. The following table illustrates the effect on 2023 pension and other postretirement costs of changing the critical actuarial assumptions, while holding all other actuarial assumptions constant: A 5 percentage point variation in the actual annual return in 2023, as compared with the expected annual asset return of 6.75 percent, would change pension and other postretirement benefit costs for Con Edison and CECONY by approximately $26 million and $25 million, respectively, in 2024. Pension benefits are provided through a pension plan maintained by Con Edison to which CECONY, O&R, the Clean Energy Businesses and Con Edison Transmission make contributions for their participating employees. Pension accounting by the Utilities includes an allocation of plan assets. The Companies’ policy is to fund their pension and other postretirement benefit accounting costs to the extent tax deductible, and for the Utilities, to the extent these costs are recovered under their rate plans. The Companies were not required to make cash contributions to the pension plan in 2022 under funding regulations and tax laws. However, CECONY and O&R made discretionary contributions to the pension plan in 2022 of $17 million and $13 million, respectively. In 2023, CECONY and O&R expect to make contributions to the pension plan of $8 million and $2 million, respectively. See “Expected Contributions” in Notes E and F to the financial statements in Item 8. Accounting for Contingencies The accounting rules for contingencies apply to an existing condition, situation or set of circumstances involving uncertainty as to possible loss that will ultimately be resolved when one or more future events occur or fail to occur. Known material contingencies, which are described in the notes to the financial statements, include certain regulatory matters (Note B), the Utilities’ responsibility for hazardous substances, such as asbestos, PCBs and coal tar that have been used or generated in the course of operations (Note G) and other contingencies (Note H). Inputs to the estimation of the liability for such environmental remediation include the possible selected remedy for each site where investigation is ongoing, the inflation rate related to the cost of inputs to the remediation process, and for those sites where there are other potentially responsible parties, the allocation of costs to the Companies. Inputs to the estimation of the liability for certain regulatory matters include facts specific to each item and the status and progress of discussions with the applicable state regulator. Inputs to the estimation of the liability for other contingencies may include liabilities incurred for similar circumstances and the outcome of legal proceedings. In accordance with the accounting rules, the Companies have accrued estimates of losses relating to the contingencies as to which loss is probable and can be reasonably estimated, and no liability has been accrued for contingencies as to which loss is not probable or cannot be reasonably estimated. The Utilities recover costs for asbestos lawsuits, workers’ compensation and environmental remediation pursuant to their current rate plans. Generally, changes during the terms of the rate plans to the amounts accrued for these contingencies would not impact earnings. Accounting for Derivative Instruments The Companies apply the accounting rules for derivatives and hedging to their derivative financial instruments. The Companies use derivative financial instruments to hedge market price fluctuations in related underlying transactions for the physical purchase and sale of electricity and gas. The Utilities are permitted by their respective regulators to reflect in rates all reasonably incurred gains and losses on these instruments. The Clean Energy Businesses have also hedged interest rate risk on certain debt securities. See “Financial and Commodity Market Risks,” below and Note P to the financial statements in Item 8. Where the Companies are required to make mark-to-market estimates pursuant to the accounting rules, the estimates of gains and losses at a particular period end do not reflect the end results of particular transactions and will most likely not reflect the actual gain or loss at the conclusion of a transaction. Substantially all of the estimated gains or losses are based on prices supplied by external sources such as the fair value of exchange-traded futures and options and the fair value of positions for which price quotations are available through or derived from brokers or other market sources. See Note Q to the financial statements in Item 8. Investments The accounting rules require Con Edison to periodically evaluate its equity method investments, to determine whether they are impaired. The standard for determining whether an impairment exists and must be recorded is whether an other-than-temporary decline in carrying value has occurred. The evaluation and measurement of impairments involve uncertainties. The estimates that Con Edison makes with respect to its equity method investments are based on assumptions that management believes are reasonable, and variations in these estimates or the underlying assumptions could have a material impact on whether a triggering event is determined to exist or the amount of any such impairment. Additionally, if the projects in which Con Edison holds these investments recognize an impairment, Con Edison may record its proportionate share of that impairment loss and would evaluate its investment for an other-than-temporary decline in value. Con Edison evaluated its equity method investments and concluded that as of December 31, 2020 and 2021 that the fair value of its investment in Mountain Valley Pipeline, LLC (MVP) declined below its carrying value and the decline is other-than-temporary. Accordingly, Con Edison recorded pre-tax impairment losses of $320 million ($223 million after tax) and $231 million ($162 million after tax) for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2021, respectively, that reduced the carrying value of its investment in MVP from $662 million to $342 million with an associated deferred tax asset of $53 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 and from $342 million to $111 million with an additional $77 million associated deferred tax asset for the year ended December 31, 2021, totaling a deferred tax asset of $130 million at period end. See “Investments - 2020 and 2021 Partial Impairments of Investment in Mountain Valley Pipeline, LLC (MVP)” in Note A to the financial statements in Item 8. There is risk that the fair value of Con Edison’s investment in MVP may be further or fully impaired in the future. There are ongoing legal and regulatory matters that must be resolved favorably before the project can be completed. Assumptions and estimates used to test Con Edison’s investment in MVP for impairment, including the likelihood of project completion, may change if adverse or delayed resolutions to the Project’s pending legal and regulatory challenges were to occur, which could have a material adverse effect on the fair value of Con Edison’s investment in MVP. In May 2021, a subsidiary of Con Edison Gas Pipeline and Storage, LLC (CET) entered into a purchase and sale agreement pursuant to which the subsidiary and its joint venture partner agreed to sell their combined interests in Stagecoach Gas Services LLC (Stagecoach) for a total of $1,225 million, of which $629 million was attributed to CET for its 50 percent interest, subject to closing adjustments. The purchase and sale agreement contemplated a two-stage closing, the first of which was completed in July 2021 and the second of which was completed in November 2021. As a result of information made available to Stagecoach as part of the sale process, Stagecoach performed impairment tests that resulted in Stagecoach recording impairment charges of $414 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. Accordingly, Con Edison recorded pre-tax impairment losses on its 50 percent interest in Stagecoach of $212 million ($147 million after-tax), including working capital and transaction cost adjustments, within "Investment income/(loss)" on Con Edison's consolidated income statement for the year ended December 31, 2021. Stagecoach’s impairment charges and information obtained from the sales process constituted triggering events for Con Edison's investment in Stagecoach as of March 31, 2021 and June 30, 2021. Con Edison evaluated the carrying value of its investment in Stagecoach for other-than-temporary declines in value using income and market-based approaches. Con Edison determined that the carrying value of its investment in Stagecoach of $667 million and $630 million as of March 31, 2021 and June 30, 2021, respectively, was not impaired. The carrying value of $630 million at June 30, 2021 reflected the final sales price received in July 2021 and the remaining amount received in November 2021, including closing adjustments. At December 31, 2022 and 2021, Con Edison’s consolidated balance sheet included investments of $841 million and $853 million, respectively. See “Investments” in Note A and Note W to the financial statements in Item 8. Allowance for Uncollectible Accounts The Companies develop expected loss estimates using past events data and consider current conditions and future reasonable and supportable forecasts. For the Utilities’ customer accounts receivable allowance for uncollectible accounts, past events considered include write-offs relative to customer accounts receivable; current conditions include macro-and micro-economic conditions related to trends in the local economy, bankruptcy rates and aged customer accounts receivable balances, among other factors; and forecasts about the future include assumptions related to the level of write-offs and recoveries. From January 1, 2020 to December 31, 2022, the historical write-off rate was determined based on an historical weather event with a significant impact to the Companies’ service territory. During that period, Con Edison's and CECONY's allowances for uncollectible accounts increased from $70 million and $65 million, respectively to $322 million and $314 million, respectively . See "COVID-19 Regulatory Matters" in Note B and “Allowance for Uncollectible Accounts" in Note N to the financial statements in Item 8. Asset Retirement Obligations (AROs) AROs are computed as the present value of the estimated costs for an asset's future retirement and are recorded in the period in which the liability is incurred. The estimated costs are capitalized as part of the related long-lived asset and depreciated over the asset's useful life. CECONY and O&R, as rate-regulated entities, recognize Regulatory Assets or Liabilities as a result of timing differences between the recording of costs and costs recovered through the ratemaking process. Because quoted market prices are not available for AROs, the Companies estimate the fair value of AROs by calculating discounted cash flows that are dependent upon various assumptions including estimated retirement dates, discount rates, inflation rates, the timing and amount of future cash outlays, and currently available technologies. The Companies recorded asset retirement obligations associated with the removal of asbestos and asbestos-containing material in their buildings (other than the structures enclosing generating stations and substations), electric equipment and steam and gas distribution systems. The Companies also recorded asset retirement obligations relating to gas and oil pipelines abandoned in place and municipal infrastructure support. See Note T to the financial statements in Item 8. A 1% increase in the assumed inflation rate used to value the ARO liability as of December 31, 2022 would increase the liability by $29 million for Con Edison and CECONY. Hypothetical Liquidation at Book Value (HLBV) For certain investments of the Clean Energy Businesses, Con Edison has determined that the use of HLBV accounting is reasonable and appropriate to attribute income and loss to the tax equity investors. Using the HLBV method, the company's earnings from the projects are adjusted to reflect the income or loss allocable to the tax equity investors calculated based on how the project would allocate and distribute its cash if it were to sell all of its assets for their carrying amounts and liquidate at a particular point in time. Under the HLBV method, the company calculates the liquidation value allocable to the tax equity investors at the beginning and end of each period based on contractual liquidation waterfall calculations and adjusts its income for the period to reflect the change in the liquidation value allocable to the tax equity investors based on the terms of the partnerships' operating agreements.  The Clean Energy Businesses were classified as held for sale as of December 31, 2022. See "Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale" in Note A, Notes S and X to the financial statements in Item 8. Financial and Commodity Market Risks The Companies are subject to various risks and uncertainties associated with financial and commodity markets. The most significant market risks include interest rate risk, commodity price risk and investment risk. Interest Rate Risk The Companies' interest rate risk primarily relates to new debt financing needed to fund capital requirements, including the construction expenditures of the Utilities and maturing debt securities, and variable-rate debt. Con Edison and its subsidiaries manage interest rate risk through the issuance of mostly fixed-rate debt with varying maturities and through opportunistic refinancing of debt. The Clean Energy Businesses use interest rate swaps to exchange variable-rate project financed debt for a fixed interest rate. See Note Q to the financial statements in Item 8. Con Edison and CECONY estimate that at December 31, 2022, a 10 percent increase in interest rates applicable to its variable rate debt would result in an increase in annual interest expense of $17 million and $13 million, respectively. The increase in annual interest expense pertaining to Con Edison includes $1 million attributable to the Clean Energy Businesses. Debt of the Clean Energy Businesses was classified as held for sale on Con Edison's Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2022. See "Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale" in Note A and Note X to the financial statements in Item 8. Under CECONY’s current electric, gas and steam rate plans, variations in actual variable rate tax-exempt debt interest expense, including costs associated with the refinancing of the variable rate tax-exempt debt, are reconciled to levels reflected in rates. Inflationary pressure has prompted the Federal Reserve to increase interest rates. Higher interest rates have resulted in, and are expected to continue to result in, increased interest expense on commercial paper and variable-rate debt. Higher interest rates are also expected to increase interest expense on future long-term debt issuances. Commodity Price Risk Con Edison’s commodity price risk primarily relates to the purchase and sale of electricity, gas and related derivative instruments. The Utilities and the Clean Energy Businesses apply risk management strategies to mitigate their related exposures. See Note P to the financial statements in Item 8. Con Edison estimates that, as of December 31, 2022, a 10 percent decline in market prices would result in a decline in fair value of $214 million for the derivative instruments used by the Utilities to hedge purchases of electricity and gas, of which $199 million is for CECONY and $15 million is for O&R. Con Edison expects that any such change in fair value would be largely offset by directionally opposite changes in the cost of the electricity and gas purchased. The Utilities do not make any margin or profit on the electricity or gas they sell. In accordance with provisions approved by state regulators, the Utilities generally recover from full-service customers the costs they incur for energy purchased for those customers, including gains and losses on certain derivative instruments used to hedge energy purchased and related costs. See “Recoverable Energy Costs” in Note A to the financial statements in Item 8. However, increases in electric and gas commodity prices may contribute to a slower recovery of cash from outstanding customer accounts receivable balances and increases to the allowance for uncollectible accounts, and may result in increases to write-offs of customer accounts receivable balances. In February 2022, the NYSPSC, in response to higher customer bills, requested that CECONY enhance its efforts to mitigate customer bill volatility due to commodity price increases by reassessing its power supply billing practices and improve communications to customers regarding forecasted significant bill increases resulting from commodity price increases. In August 2022, the NYSPSC approved CECONY's March 2022 request to amend its electric tariff, effective June 1, 2022, to change how CECONY recovers the cost of electricity supplied to its full-service electric customers to reduce the likelihood of customer bill volatility by more closely aligning supply prices with CECONY's electric supply hedging positions. CECONY has also committed to provide notice to customers in cases where supply price increases could result in significantly higher bills. In September 2022, in anticipation of commodity price volatility and potential oil supply disruption during the upcoming winter heating season, the NYSPSC requested, and CECONY and O&R have since taken, the following measures: advise their dual-fuel customers and power operators to fill their alternate fuel tanks; inspect by November 1, 2022 the alternate fuel tanks of interruptible gas customers where human needs are served to ensure they have adequate alternate supply; review their emergency plans to address alternate fuel supply disruptions of interruptible gas customers during peak gas demand; and promote bill payment assistance and energy use reduction programs. The Clean Energy Businesses use a value-at-risk (VaR) model to assess the market price risk of their portfolio of electricity and gas commodity fixed-price purchase and sales commitments, physical forward contracts, generating assets and commodity derivative instruments. The Clean Energy Businesses were classified as held for sale as of December 31, 2022. See "Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale" in Note A and Note X to the financial statements in Item 8. VaR represents the potential change in fair value of the portfolio due to changes in market prices for a specified time period and confidence level. These businesses estimate VaR across their portfolio using a delta-normal variance/covariance model with a 95 percent confidence level, compare the measured VaR results against performance due to actual prices and stress test the portfolio each quarter using an assumed 30 percent price change from forecast. Since the VaR calculation involves complex methodologies and estimates and assumptions that are based on past experience, it is not necessarily indicative of future results. VaR for the portfolio, assuming a one-day holding period, for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, was as follows: Investment Risk The Companies’ investment risk relates to the investment of plan assets for their pension and other postretirement benefit plans. Con Edison's investment risk also relates to the investments of Con Edison Transmission that are accounted for under the equity method. See “Critical Accounting Estimates – Accounting for Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits,” above and “Investments” in Note A and Notes E and F to the financial statements in Item 8. The Companies’ current investment policy for pension plan assets includes investment targets of 28 to 38 percent equity securities, 42 to 60 percent debt securities, 12 to 22 percent alternatives. At December 31, 2022, the pension plan investments consisted of 32 percent equity securities, 48 percent debt securities and 20 percent alternatives. For the Utilities’ pension and other postretirement benefit plans, regulatory accounting treatment is generally applied in accordance with the accounting rules for regulated operations. In accordance with the Statement of Policy issued by the NYSPSC and its current electric, gas and steam rate plans, CECONY defers for payment to or recovery from customers the difference between the pension and other postretirement benefit expenses and the amounts for such expenses reflected in rates. O&R also defers such difference pursuant to its NY rate plans. Environmental Matters For information concerning climate change, environmental sustainability, potential liabilities arising from laws and regulations protecting the environment and other environmental matters, see “Environmental Matters” in Item 1 and Note G to the financial statements in Item 8. Material Contingencies For information concerning potential liabilities arising from the Companies’ material contingencies, see “Critical Accounting Estimates – Accounting for Contingencies,” above, and Notes B, G and H to the financial statements in Item 8.