********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Our business, results of operations and financial conditions are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. While we seek to identify, manage and mitigate risks to our business, risk and uncertainty cannot be eliminated or necessarily predicted. In connection with any investment decision with respect to our securities, you should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as the other information contained in this report and our other filings with the SEC. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business operations. Should any of these risks materialize, actual results could differ materially from the disclosed information, the trading value of our securities could be negatively impacted and  our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. UNDERWRITING Our results could be adversely affected by catastrophic events. We are exposed to unpredictable catastrophic events, including weather-related and other natural catastrophes, as well as acts of terrorism and wars.  The frequency and/or severity of catastrophic events may be impacted in the future by the continued effects of climate change.  Climate change and resulting changes in global temperatures, weather patterns, and sea levels may both increase the frequency and severity of natural catastrophes and the resulting losses in the future and impact our risk modeling assumptions. We cannot predict the impact that changing climate conditions, if any, may have on our results of operations or our financial condition. Additionally, we cannot predict how legal, regulatory and/or social responses to concerns around global climate change and the resulting impact on various sectors of the economy may impact our business. Any material reduction in our operating results caused by the occurrence of one or more catastrophes could inhibit our ability to pay dividends or to meet our interest and principal payment obligations.  By way of illustration, during the past five calendar years, pre-tax catastrophe losses, net of reinsurance, were as follows: Our losses from future catastrophic events could exceed our projections. We use projections of possible losses from future catastrophic events of varying types and magnitudes as a strategic underwriting tool.  We use these loss projections to estimate our potential catastrophe losses in certain geographic areas and decide on the placement of retrocessional coverage or other actions to limit the extent of potential losses in a given geographic area.  These loss projections are approximations, reliant on a mix of quantitative and qualitative processes, and actual losses may exceed the projections by a material amount. If our loss reserves are inadequate to meet our actual losses, our net income would be reduced or we could incur a loss. We are required to maintain reserves to cover our estimated ultimate liability of losses and LAE for both reported and unreported claims incurred.  These reserves are only estimates of what we believe the settlement and administration of claims will cost based on facts and circumstances known to us.  In setting reserves for our reinsurance liabilities, we rely 20 Table of Contents on claims data supplied by our ceding companies and brokers, and we employ actuarial and statistical projections.  The information received from our ceding companies is not always timely or accurate, which can contribute to inaccuracies in our loss projections.  Because of the uncertainties that surround our estimates of loss and LAE reserves, we cannot be certain that ultimate losses and LAE payments will not exceed our estimates.  If our reserves are deficient, we would be required to increase loss reserves in the period in which such deficiencies are identified which would cause a charge to our earnings and a reduction of capital.  During the past five calendar years, the reserve re-estimation process resulted in an increase to our pre-tax net income in 2023, 2022, 2021 and 2019 and resulted in a decrease to our pre-tax net income in 2020: The difficulty in estimating our reserves is significantly more challenging as it relates to reserving for potential A&E liabilities.  As of December 31, 2023, 1.0% of our gross reserves were comprised of A&E reserves. A&E liabilities are especially hard to estimate for many reasons, including the long delays between exposure and manifestation of any bodily injury or property damage, difficulty in identifying the source of the asbestos or environmental contamination, long reporting delays and difficulty in properly allocating liability for the asbestos or environmental damage.  Legal tactics and judicial and legislative developments affecting the scope of insurers’ liability, which can be difficult to predict, also contribute to uncertainties in estimating reserves for A&E liabilities. The failure to accurately assess underwriting risk and establish adequate premium rates could reduce our net income or result in a net loss. Our success depends on our ability to accurately assess the risks associated with the businesses on which the risk is retained.  If we fail to accurately assess the risks we retain, we may fail to establish adequate premium rates to cover our losses and LAE.  This could reduce our net income and even result in a net loss. In addition, losses may arise from events or exposures that are not anticipated when the coverage is priced.  In addition to such unanticipated events, we also face the unanticipated expansion of our exposures, particularly in long-tail liability lines.  An example of this is the expansion over time of the scope of insurers’ legal liability within the mass tort cases, particularly for A&E exposures discussed above. Decreases in pricing for property and casualty reinsurance and insurance could reduce our net income. The worldwide reinsurance and insurance businesses are highly competitive, as well as cyclical by product and market.  These cycles, as well as other factors that influence aggregate supply and demand for property and casualty insurance and reinsurance products, are outside of our control.  The supply of (re)insurance is driven by prevailing prices and levels of capacity that may fluctuate in response to a number of factors, including large catastrophic losses and investment returns being realized in the insurance industry. Demand for (re)insurance is influenced by underwriting results of insurers and insureds, including catastrophe losses, and prevailing general economic conditions. If any of these factors were to result in a decline in the demand for (re)insurance or an overall increase in (re)insurance capacity, our net income could decrease. If we are unable or choose not to purchase reinsurance and transfer risk to the reinsurance markets, our net income could be reduced or we could incur a net loss in the event of unusual loss experience. We are generally less reliant on the purchase of reinsurance than many of our competitors, in part because of our strategic emphasis on underwriting discipline and management of the cycles inherent in our business.  We try to separate our risk-taking process from our risk mitigation process to avoid developing too great a reliance on reinsurance.  With the expansion of the capital markets into insurance linked financial instruments, we increased our use of capital market products for catastrophe reinsurance.  In addition, we have increased some of our quota share contracts with larger 21 Table of Contents retrocessionaires.  The percentage of business that we reinsure may vary considerably from year to year, depending on our view of the relationship between cost and expected benefit for the contract period. FINANCIAL A decline in our financial strength ratings could adversely affect our standing among cedents and broker partners and our ability to grow premiums and earnings. Our active insurance company subsidiaries currently hold financial strength ratings assigned by third-party rating agencies which assess and rate the claims paying ability and financial strength of insurers and reinsurers.  Financial strength ratings are used by cedents, agents and brokers to assess the financial strength and credit quality of reinsurers and insurers. A downgrade or withdrawal of any of these ratings could adversely affect our ability to market our reinsurance and insurance products, our ability to compete with other reinsurers and insurers and our ability to write new business, which in turn could impact our profitability and results. Consistent with market practice, much of our treaty reinsurance business allows the ceding company to terminate the contract or seek collateralization of our obligations in the event of a rating downgrade below a certain threshold.  The termination provision would generally be triggered if a rating fell below A.M. Best’s A- rating level.  To a lesser extent, Everest Re also has modest exposure to reinsurance contracts that contain provisions for obligatory funding of outstanding liabilities in the event of a rating agency downgrade.  Those provisions would also generally be triggered if Everest Re’s rating fell below A.M. Best’s A- rating level. See also ITEM 1, “Financial Strength Ratings”. A decline in our debt ratings could increase our borrowing costs and adversely affect our ability to access capital markets at attractive rates. If our debt ratings are downgraded, we could incur higher borrowing costs, higher cost of capital, and our ability to access the capital markets at attractive rates could be impacted. We are unable to provide any guarantees on whether or not or ratings may be downgraded by any of our rating agencies in the future. See also ITEM 1, “Debt Ratings”. The failure of our insureds, intermediaries and reinsurers to satisfy their obligations to us could reduce our income. In accordance with industry practice, we have uncollateralized receivables from insureds, agents and brokers and/or rely on agents and brokers to process our payments.  We may not be able to collect amounts due from insureds, agents and brokers, resulting in a reduction to net income. We are subject to credit risk of reinsurers in connection with retrocessional arrangements because the transfer of risk to a reinsurer does not relieve us of our liability to the insured. In addition, reinsurers may be unwilling to pay us even though they are able to do so.  The failure of one or more of our reinsurers to honor their obligations to us in a timely fashion would impact our cash flow and reduce our net income and could cause us to incur a significant loss. Our investment values and investment income could decline due to changed conditions in the financial markets. A significant portion of our investment portfolio consists of fixed income securities and smaller portions consist of equity securities and other investments. The fair value of our invested assets and associated investment income may fluctuate depending on various factors including the effects of economic events and conditions, governmental policies, changes in interest rates and credit spreads, and market volatility. 22 Table of Contents Interest Rate Risk. Most of our fixed income securities are classified as available for sale, and temporary changes in the fair value of these investments due to interest rate fluctuations are reflected as changes to our shareholders’ equity. Additionally, net investment income from fixed income investments that carry prepayment risk, such as mortgage-backed and other asset-backed securities, can differ from the income anticipated from those securities at the time of purchase. Credit Risk. Our investment portfolio is subject to the risk of loss due to default or deterioration in credit quality. As a part of our ongoing analysis of our investment portfolio, we are required to assess current expected credit losses for all held-to-maturity securities and evaluate expected credit losses for available-for-sale securities when fair value is below amortized cost, which considers reasonable and supportable forecasts of future economic conditions in addition to information about past events and current conditions. If issuers of individual investments are unable to meet their obligations, investment income will be reduced and realized capital losses may arise. Equity Risk. We have invested a portion of our investment portfolio in equity securities. The value of these assets fluctuates with changes in the markets. In times of economic weakness, the fair value of these assets may decline, and may negatively impact net income. We also invest in non-traditional investments which have different risk characteristics than traditional fixed income and equity securities. These alternative investments are comprised primarily of private equity limited partnerships. The changes in value and investment income/(loss) for these partnerships may be more volatile than over-the-counter securities. The failure to maintain access to enough cash, readily salable or unencumbered financial assets to meet near-term financial obligations. Liquidity risk is a manifestation of events that are driven by other risk types (insurance, investment, operational). A liquidity shortfall may arise in the event of insufficient access to internal and external funding sources to meet an immediate and significant need for cash or collateral. Additionally, a rapid increase in interest rates can create a short-term pressure on regulatory capital models. The Company's liquidity could be affected by a broad market illiquidity event, default by significant market participant, inability to sell assets, inability to access bank accounts, inability to access capital and credit markets, concentration of CAT events, or unforeseen capital needs. A failure to have sufficient cashflow to meet obligations may adversely affect business relations and the creditworthiness of the Company. Because of our holding company structure, our ability to pay dividends, interest and principal is dependent on receiving dividends, loan payments and other funds from our subsidiaries. Each of Group and Holdings is a holding company whose most significant asset is the stock of its operating subsidiaries.  As a result, each of Group’s and Holdings’ ability to pay dividends, interest or other payments on its securities in the future will depend on the earnings and cash flows of its respective operating subsidiaries and the ability of the subsidiaries to pay dividends or to advance or repay funds to it.  This ability is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, regulatory and other factors beyond our control.  Payment of dividends and advances and repayments from some of the operating subsidiaries are regulated by U.S. states and foreign insurance laws and regulatory restrictions, including minimum solvency and liquidity thresholds.  Accordingly, the operating subsidiaries may not be able to pay dividends or advance or repay funds to Group and Holdings in the future, which could prevent us from paying dividends or interest or making other payments on our securities. We may experience foreign currency exchange losses that reduce our net income and capital levels. We conduct business in a variety of non-U.S. currencies, principally the Euro, the British pound, and the Canadian dollar. Assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses denominated in foreign currencies are exposed to changes in currency exchange rates.  Our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar, and exchange rate fluctuations, especially relative to the U.S. dollar, may materially impact our results and financial position.  In 2023, we wrote approximately 27.8% of our coverages in non-U.S. 23 Table of Contents currencies; as of December 31, 2023, we maintained approximately 20.9% of our investment portfolio in investments denominated in non-U.S. currencies. Our business is sensitive to unanticipated levels of inflation. While consideration is given to the levels of inflation and how that may impact premiums and claims, the impacts of inflation may be different than anticipated.  Premiums are established before actual losses are known, which may result in some underpricing if inflation rises more rapidly than expected, ultimately creating a deficiency that may impact our financial position. Measures taken by domestic or foreign governments could have effects on our business. The potential political, economic, military, and social risks that can emerge from a nation's involvement in international affairs can manifest into elevated geopolitical risk. For financial institutions, there are direct and indirect effects that can result from these events, including effects to the growth of business, return in foreign investments, claims patterns and local operations. OPERATIONAL We are dependent on our key personnel. Our success has been, and will continue to be, dependent on our ability to retain the services of our existing key executives and other key employees, and to attract and retain additional qualified personnel in the future. The loss of the services of any key executive officer or the inability to hire and retain other highly qualified personnel in the future, particularly those experienced in the property and casualty industry, could adversely affect our ability to conduct business. Special considerations apply to our Bermuda operations.  Under Bermuda law, non-Bermudians, other than spouses of Bermudians and individuals holding permanent or working resident certificates, are not permitted to engage in any gainful occupation in Bermuda without a work permit issued by the Bermuda government.  A work permit is only granted or extended if the employer can show that, after a proper public advertisement, no Bermudian, spouse of a Bermudian or individual holding a permanent or working resident certificate is available who meets the minimum standards reasonably required for the position.  The Bermuda government places a six-year term limit on individuals with work permits, subject to specified exemptions for persons deemed to be key employees of businesses with a significant physical presence in Bermuda.  Currently, all our Bermuda-based professional employees who require work permits have been granted permits by the Bermuda government that expire at various times between April 2024 and October 2028. We are subject to cybersecuri ty risks that could negatively impact our business operations. We are dependent upon our information technology platform, including our processing systems, data and electronic transmissions in our business operations.  Security breaches and other cyber threats could expose us to the loss or misuse of our technology systems or information, litigation and potential liability.  In addition, cyber incidents that impact the availability, reliability, speed, accuracy or other proper functioning of these systems could have a significant negative impact on our operations and possibly our results.  An incident could also result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, damage our reputation, cause a loss of customers or give rise to monetary fines and other penalties, which could be significant.  We are not aware of a cybersecurity incident that materially affected the Company, including its business strategy, results of operations or financial condition. We are dependent on brokers and agents for business developments. We rely on brokers and agents. Our relationship with this distribution network is based on quality of underwriting, claim services, financial strength and other factors, which could weaken. Analytical models used in decision making could vary materially from actual results. As a financial services company, we are exposed to model risk. We utilize financial models to derive metrics and drive analysis to assist in decision making across key areas, such as pricing, underwriting, reserving, investment management, 24 Table of Contents ceding business, capital allocation and risk management. These models may not operate properly, may contain incorrect information and errors and may rely on assumptions and projections that are inherently uncertain. Our operations are subject to business continuation risk. Across our global business centers, there is risk that our operations, systems or data, or those of third parties on whom we rely, may be disrupted.  We may experience a disruption in business continuity as a result of pandemic and public health crises, geopolitical risks including armed conflict and civil unrest, terrorist events, natural disasters, cyber-attacks affecting internet and cloud services. All ultimately result in workforce unavailability among others. STRATEGIC Our industry is highly competitive, and we may not be able to compete successfully in the future. Our industry is highly competitive and subject to pricing cycles that can be pronounced. We compete globally in the United States, Bermuda and international reinsurance and insurance markets with numerous competitors.  Our competitors include independent reinsurance and insurance companies, subsidiaries or affiliates of established worldwide insurance companies, reinsurance departments of certain insurance companies and domestic and international underwriting operations, including underwriting syndicates at Lloyd’s of London. According to S&P, Everest ranks among the top ten global property and casualty reinsurance groups, where more than two-thirds of the market share is concentrated.  The worldwide net premium written by the Top 40 global reinsurance groups for both life and non-life business was estimated to be $306 billion in 2022 according to data compiled by S&P.  In addition to existing competitors, the entry of alternative capital market products and new company formations provide additional sources of reinsurance and insurance capacity, which could reduce our market share. SHAREHOLDERS, LEGAL & REGULATION Applicable insurance laws may have an anti-takeover effect. Before a person can acquire control of a U.S. insurance company, prior written approval must be obtained from the insurance commissioner of the state where that insurance company is domiciled or deemed commercially domiciled.  Prior to granting approval of an application to acquire control of a domestic insurance company, a state insurance commissioner will consider such factors as the financial strength of the applicant, the integrity and competence of the applicant’s board of directors and executive officers, the acquiror’s plans for the future operations of the insurance company and any anti-competitive results that may arise from the consummation of the acquisition of control.  Because any person who acquired control of Group would thereby acquire indirect control of its insurance company subsidiaries in the United States, the insurance change of control laws of Delaware and California would apply to such a transaction.  This could have the effect of delaying or even preventing such a change of control. The ownership of common shares of Group by Everest Re Advisors, Ltd., a direct subsidiary of Group, may have an impact on securing approval of shareholder proposals that Group’s management supports. As of December 31, 2023, Everest Re Advisors, Ltd. (Bermuda) owned 9,719,971 or 18.3% of the outstanding common shares of Group.  Under Group’s bye-laws, the total voting power of any shareholder owning more than 9.9% of the common shares is reduced to 9.9% of the total voting power of the common shares.  Nevertheless, Everest Re Advisors, Ltd., which is controlled by Group, has the ability to vote 9.9% of the total voting power of Group’s common shares. Provisions in Group’s bye-laws could have an anti-takeover effect, which could diminish the value of its common shares. Group’s bye-laws contain provisions that could delay or prevent a change of control that a shareholder might consider favorable.  The effect of these provisions could be to prevent a shareholder from receiving the benefit from any premium over the market price of our common shares offered by a bidder in a potential takeover.  Even in the absence of an attempt to effect a change in management or a takeover attempt, these provisions may adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common shares if they are viewed as discouraging takeover attempts in the future. 25 Table of Contents For example, Group’s bye-laws contain the following provisions that could have an anti-takeover effect: • the total voting power of any shareholder owning more than 9.9% of the common shares will be reduced to 9.9% of the total voting power of the common shares; • the board of directors may decline to register any transfer of common shares if it has reason to believe that the transfer would result in: i.) any person that is not an investment company beneficially owning more than 5.0% of any class of the issued and outstanding share capital of Group, ii.) any person holding controlled shares in excess of 9.9% of any class of the issued and outstanding share capital of Group, or iii.) any adverse tax, regulatory or legal consequences to Group, any of its subsidiaries or any of its shareholders; • Group also has the option to redeem or purchase all or part of a shareholder’s common shares to the extent the board of directors determines it is necessary or advisable to avoid or cure any adverse or potential adverse consequences if: i.) any person that is not an investment company beneficially owns more than 5.0% of any class of the issued and outstanding share capital of Group, ii.) any person holds controlled shares in excess of 9.9% of any class of the issued and outstanding share capital of Group, or iii.) share ownership by any person may result in adverse tax, regulatory or legal consequences to Group, any of its subsidiaries or any other shareholder. The Board has indicated that it will apply these bye-law provisions in such manner that “passive institutional investors” will be treated similarly to investment companies.  For this purpose, “passive institutional investors” include all persons who are eligible, pursuant to Rule 13d-1(b)(1) under the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934, (“the Exchange Act”) to file a short-form statement on Schedule 13G, other than an insurance company or any parent holding company or control person of an insurance company. Investors in Group may have more difficulty in protecting their interests than investors in a U.S. corporation. The Companies Act 1981 of Bermuda (the “Companies Act”), differs in material respects from the laws applicable to U.S. corporations and their shareholders.  The following is a summary of material differences between the Companies Act, as modified in some instances by provisions of Group’s bye-laws, and Delaware corporate law that could make it more difficult for investors in Group to protect their interests than investors in a U.S. corporation.  Because the following statements are summaries, they do not address all aspects of Bermuda law that may be relevant to Group and its shareholders. Alternate Directors. Group’s bye-laws provide, as permitted by Bermuda law, that each director may appoint an alternate director, who shall have the power to attend and vote at any meeting of the Board or committee at which that director is not personally present and to sign written consents in place of that director.  Delaware law permits a director to appoint another director as an alternate to attend any board committee meeting.  However, Delaware law does not provide for the designation of alternate directors with authority to attend or vote at a meeting of the Board. Committees of the Board of Directors. Group’s bye-laws provide, as permitted by Bermuda law, that the Board may delegate any of its powers to committees that the board appoints, and those committees may consist partly or entirely of non-directors.  Delaware law allows the 26 Table of Contents board of directors of a corporation to delegate many of its powers to committees, but those committees may consist only of directors. Interested Directors. Bermuda law and Group’s bye-laws provide that if a director has a personal interest in a transaction to which the company is also a party and if the director discloses the nature of this personal interest at the first opportunity, either at a meeting of directors or in writing to the directors, then the company will not be able to declare the transaction void solely due to the existence of that personal interest and the director will not be liable to the company for any profit realized from the transaction.  In addition, after a director has made the declaration of interest referred to above, he or she is allowed to be counted for purposes of determining whether a quorum is present and to vote on a transaction in which he or she has an interest, unless disqualified from doing so by the chairman of the relevant board meeting.  Under Delaware law, an interested director could be held liable for a transaction in which that director derived an improper personal benefit.  Additionally, under Delaware law, a corporation may be able to declare a transaction with an interested director to be void unless one of the following conditions is fulfilled: • the material facts as to the interested director’s relationship or interests are disclosed or are known to the board of directors and the board in good faith authorizes the transaction by the affirmative vote of a majority of the disinterested directors; • the material facts are disclosed or are known to the shareholders entitled to vote on the transaction and the transaction is specifically approved in good faith by the holders of a majority of the voting shares; or • the transaction is fair to the corporation as of the time it is authorized, approved or ratified. Transactions with Significant Shareholders. As a Bermuda company, Group may enter into business transactions with its significant shareholders, including asset sales, in which a significant shareholder receives, or could receive, a financial benefit that is greater than that received, or to be received, by other shareholders with prior approval from Group’s board of directors but without obtaining prior approval from the shareholders.  In the case of an amalgamation, in which two or more companies join together and continue as a single company, a resolution of shareholders approved by a majority of at least 75% of the votes cast is required in addition to the approval of the board of directors, except in the case of an amalgamation with and between wholly-owned subsidiaries.  If Group was a Delaware corporation, any business combination with an interested shareholder (which, for this purpose, would include mergers and asset sales of greater than 10% of Group’s assets that would otherwise be considered transactions in the ordinary course of business) within a period of three years from the time the person became an interested shareholder would require prior approval from shareholders holding at least 66 2/3% of Group’s outstanding common shares not owned by the interested shareholder, unless the transaction qualified for one of the exemptions in the relevant Delaware statute or Group opted out of the statute.  For purposes of the Delaware statute, an “interested shareholder” is generally defined as a person who together with that person’s affiliates and associates owns, or within the previous three years did own, 15% or more of a corporation’s outstanding voting shares. Takeovers. Under Bermuda law, if an acquiror makes an offer for shares of a company and, within four months of the offer, the holders of not less than 90% of the shares that are the subject of the offer tender their shares, the acquiror may give the nontendering shareholders notice requiring them to transfer their shares on the terms of the offer.  Within one month of receiving the notice, dissenting shareholders may apply to the court objecting to the transfer.  The burden is on the dissenting shareholders to show that the court should exercise its discretion to enjoin the transfer.  The court will be unlikely to do this unless there is evidence of fraud or bad faith or collusion between the acquiror and the tendering shareholders aimed at unfairly forcing out minority shareholders.  Under another provision of Bermuda law, the holders of 95% of the shares of a company (the “acquiring shareholders”) may give notice to the remaining shareholders requiring them to sell their shares on the terms described in the notice.  Within one month of receiving the notice, dissenting shareholders may apply to the court for an appraisal of their shares.  Within one month of the court’s appraisal, the acquiring shareholders are entitled either to acquire all shares involved at the price fixed by the court or cancel the notice given to the remaining shareholders.  If shares were acquired under the notice at a price below the court’s appraisal price, the acquiring shareholders must either pay the difference in price or cancel the notice and return 27 Table of Contents the shares thus acquired to the shareholder, who must then refund the purchase price.  There are no comparable provisions under Delaware law. Inspection of Corporate Records. Members of the general public have the right to inspect the public documents of Group available at the office of the Registrar of Companies and Group’s registered office, both in Bermuda.  These documents include the memorandum of association, which describes Group’s permitted purposes and powers, any amendments to the memorandum of association and documents relating to any increase or reduction in Group’s authorized share capital. Shareholders of Group have the additional right to inspect Group’s bye-laws, minutes of general meetings of shareholders and audited financial statements that must be presented to the annual general meeting of shareholders.  The register of shareholders of Group also is open to inspection by shareholders and to members of the public without charge.  Group is required to maintain its share register at its registered office in Bermuda.  Group also maintains a branch register in the offices of its transfer agent in the United States, which is open for public inspection as required under the Companies Act.  Group is required to keep at its registered office a register of its directors and officers that is open for inspection by members of the public without charge.  However, Bermuda law does not provide a general right for shareholders to inspect or obtain copies of any other corporate records.  Under Delaware law, any shareholder may inspect or obtain copies of a corporation’s shareholder list and its other books and records for any purpose reasonably related to that person’s interest as a shareholder. Shareholders’ Suits. The rights of shareholders under Bermuda law are not as extensive as the rights of shareholders under legislation or judicial precedent in many U.S. jurisdictions.  Class actions and derivative actions are generally not available to shareholders under the laws of Bermuda.  However, the Bermuda courts ordinarily would be expected to follow English case law precedent, which would permit a shareholder to bring an action in the name of Group to remedy a wrong done to Group where the act complained of is alleged to be beyond the corporate power of Group or illegal or would result in the violation of Group’s memorandum of association or bye-laws.  Furthermore, the court would give consideration to acts that are alleged to constitute a fraud against the minority shareholders or where an act requires the approval of a greater percentage of Group’s shareholders than actually approved it.  The winning party in an action of this type generally would be able to recover a portion of attorneys’ fees incurred in connection with the action. Under Delaware law, class actions and derivative actions generally are available to stockholders for breach of fiduciary duty, corporate waste and actions not taken in accordance with applicable law.  In these types of actions, the court has discretion to permit the winning party to recover its attorneys’ fees. Limitation of Liability of Directors and Officers. Group’s bye-laws provide that Group and its shareholders waive all claims or rights of action that they might have, individually or in the right of the Company, against any director or officer for any act or failure to act in the performance of that director’s or officer’s duties.  However, this waiver does not apply to claims or rights of action that arise out of fraud or dishonesty.  This waiver may have the effect of barring claims arising under U.S. federal securities laws. Under Delaware law, a corporation may include in its certificate of incorporation provisions limiting the personal liability of its directors to the corporation or its stockholders for monetary damages for many types of breach of fiduciary duty.  However, these provisions may not limit liability for any breach of the duty of loyalty, acts or omissions not in good faith or that involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law, the authorization of unlawful dividends, stock repurchases or stock redemptions, or any transaction from which a director derived an improper personal benefit.  Moreover, Delaware provisions would not be likely to bar claims arising under U.S. federal securities laws. Indemnification of Directors and Officers. Group’s bye-laws provide that Group shall indemnify its directors or officers to the full extent permitted by law against all actions, costs, charges, liabilities, loss, damage or expense incurred or suffered by them by reason of any act done, concurred in or omitted in the conduct of Group’s business or in the discharge of their duties.  Under Bermuda law, this indemnification may not extend to any matter involving fraud or dishonesty of which a director or officer may be guilty in relation to the company, as determined in a final judgment or decree not subject to appeal.  Under Delaware law, a corporation may indemnify a director or officer who becomes a party to an action, suit or proceeding because of his position as a director or officer if (1) the director or officer acted in good faith and in a manner he reasonably believed to 28 Table of Contents be in or not opposed to the best interests of the corporation and (2) if the action or proceeding involves a criminal offense, the director or officer had no reasonable cause to believe his or her conduct was unlawful. Enforcement of Civil Liabilities. Group is organized under the laws of Bermuda. Some of its directors and officers may reside outside the U.S.  A substantial portion of our assets are or may be located in jurisdictions outside the United States.  As a result, a person may not be able to affect service of process within the United States on directors and officers of Group and those experts who reside outside the United States.  A person also may not be able to recover against them or Group on judgments of U.S. courts or to obtain original judgments against them or Group in Bermuda courts, including judgments predicated upon civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. Dividends. Bermuda law does not allow a company to declare or pay a dividend, or make a distribution out of contributed surplus, if there are reasonable grounds for believing that the company, after the payment is made, would be unable to pay its liabilities as they become due, or that the realizable value of the company’s assets would be less, as a result of the payment, than the aggregate of its liabilities and its issued share capital and share premium accounts.  The share capital account represents the aggregate par value of issued shares, and the share premium account represents the aggregate amount paid for issued shares over and above their par value.  Under Delaware law, subject to any restrictions contained in a company’s certificate of incorporation, a company may pay dividends out of the surplus or, if there is no surplus, out of net profits for the fiscal year in which the dividend is declared and/or the preceding fiscal year.  Surplus is the amount by which the net assets of a corporation exceed its stated capital. Delaware law also provides that dividends may not be paid out of net profits at any time when stated capital is less than the capital represented by the outstanding stock of all classes having a preference upon the distribution of assets. Insurance laws and regulations restrict our ability to operate and any failure to comply with those laws and regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business . We are subject to extensive and increasing regulation under U.S., state and foreign insurance laws.  These laws limit the amount of dividends that can be paid to us by our operating subsidiaries, impose restrictions on the amount and type of investments that we can hold, prescribe solvency, accounting and internal control standards that must be met and maintained and require us to maintain reserves.  These laws also require disclosure of material inter-affiliate transactions and require prior approval of “extraordinary” transactions.  Such “extraordinary” transactions include declaring dividends from operating subsidiaries that exceed statutory thresholds.  These laws also generally require approval of changes of control of insurance companies.  The application of these laws could affect our liquidity and ability to pay dividends, interest and other payments on securities, as applicable, and could restrict our ability to expand our business operations through acquisitions of new insurance subsidiaries.  We may not have or maintain all required licenses and approvals or fully comply with the wide variety of applicable laws and regulations or the relevant authority’s interpretation of the laws and regulations.  If we do not have the requisite licenses and approvals or do not comply with applicable regulatory requirements, the insurance regulatory authorities could preclude or temporarily suspend us from carrying on some or all of our activities or fine us.  These types of actions could have a material adverse effect on our business.  To date, no material fine, penalty or restriction has been imposed on us for failure to comply with any insurance law or regulation. As a result of the previous dislocation of the financial markets, Congress and the previous administration in the United States implemented changes in the way the financial services industry is regulated.  Some of these changes are also impacting the insurance industry.  For example, the U.S. Treasury established the Federal Insurance Office with the authority to monitor all aspects of the insurance sector, monitor the extent to which traditionally underserved communities and consumers have access to affordable non-health insurance products, to represent the United States on prudential aspects of international insurance matters, to assist with administration of the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program and to advise on important national and international insurance matters.  In addition, several European regulatory bodies are in process of updating existing regulations or developing new capital adequacy directives for insurers and reinsurers.  The future impact of such initiatives or new initiatives from the current governmental authorities, if any, on our operation, net income (loss) or financial condition cannot be determined at this time. Regulatory challenges in the United States could adversely affect the ability of Bermuda Re to conduct business. 29 Table of Contents Bermuda Re does not intend to be licensed or admitted as an insurer or reinsurer in any U.S. jurisdiction.  Under current law, Bermuda Re generally will be permitted to reinsure U.S. risks from its office in Bermuda without obtaining those licenses.  However, the insurance and reinsurance regulatory framework is subject to periodic legislative review and revision.  In the past, there have been congressional and other initiatives in the United States regarding increased supervision and regulation of the insurance industry, including proposals to supervise and regulate reinsurers domiciled outside the United States.  If Bermuda Re were to become subject to any insurance laws of the United States or any U.S. state at any time in the future, it might be required to post deposits or maintain minimum surplus levels and might be prohibited from engaging in lines of business or from writing some types of policies.  Complying with those laws could have a material adverse effect on our ability to conduct business in Bermuda and international markets. Bermuda Re may need to be licensed or admitted in additional jurisdictions to develop its business. As Bermuda Re’s business develops, it will monitor the need to obtain licenses in jurisdictions other than Bermuda and the UK, where it has an authorized branch, in order to comply with applicable law or to be able to engage in additional insurance-related activities.  In addition, Bermuda Re may be at a competitive disadvantage in jurisdictions where it is not licensed or does not enjoy an exemption from licensing relative to competitors that are so licensed or exempt from licensing.  Bermuda Re may not be able to obtain any additional licenses that it determines are necessary or desirable.  Furthermore, the process of obtaining those licenses is often costly and may take a long time. Bermuda Re’s ability to write reinsurance may be severely limited if it is unable to arrange for security to back its reinsurance. Many jurisdictions do not permit insurance companies to take credit for reinsurance obtained from unlicensed or non-admitted insurers on their statutory financial statements without appropriate security.  Bermuda Re’s reinsurance clients typically require it to post a letter of credit or enter into other security arrangements.  If Bermuda Re is unable to obtain or maintain a letter of credit facility on commercially acceptable terms or is unable to arrange for other types of security, its ability to operate its business may be severely limited.  If Bermuda Re defaults on any letter of credit that it obtains, it may be required to prematurely liquidate a substantial portion of its investment portfolio and other assets pledged as collateral. Regulatory and legislative developments related to cybersecurity could have an adverse impact on our business. In October 2017, the NAIC adopted the Insurance Data Security Model Law, which was intended to establish the standards for data security and for the investigation and notification of data breaches applicable to insurance licensees in states adopting such law, requiring insurers, and other entities required to be licensed under state insurance laws to comply with certain requirements, such as developing and maintaining a written information security program, conducting risk assessments and overseeing the data security practices of third-party vendors.  The Insurance Data Security Model Law has now adopted in 23 states.  In addition, certain state insurance regulators are developing or have developed their own regulations that may impose additional regulatory requirements relating to cybersecurity on insurance and reinsurance companies.  For example, the New York State Department of Financial Services has an applicable regulation pertaining to cybersecurity for all banking and insurance entities under its jurisdiction, effective as of March 1, 2017 and amended on November 1, 2023.  The SEC has also adopted new rules effective September 5, 2023 to enhance and standardize disclosures regarding cybersecurity risk management, strategy, governance and incidents. We cannot predict the impact these laws and regulations will have on our business, financial condition or results of operations, but our insurance and reinsurance companies could incur additional costs resulting from compliance with such laws and regulations. If international tax laws change, our net income may be impacted. The Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (“OECD”) and its member countries which includes the United States, have been focusing for an extended period on issues related to the taxation of multinational corporations, such as the comprehensive plan set forth by the OECD to create an agreed set of international tax rules for preventing base erosion and profit shifting.  Recently they agreed upon a broad framework for overhauling the taxation of multinational corporations that includes, among other things, profit reallocation rules and a 15% global minimum corporate income tax rate.  These proposals, if implemented, could have an impact on net income and effective tax rate.  The Company may be subject to additional income taxes, which would reduce our net income. 30 Table of Contents Group and/or various Group companies may be subject to additional income taxes, which would reduce our net income. If U.S. tax law changes, our net income may be impacted. The 2017 TCJA addressed what some members of Congress had expressed concern about for several years, which was U.S. corporations moving their place of incorporation to low-tax jurisdictions to obtain a competitive advantage over domestic corporations that are subject to the U.S. corporate income tax rate of 21%.  Specifically, it addressed their concern over a perceived competitive advantage that foreign-controlled insurers and reinsurers may have had over U.S. controlled insurers and reinsurers resulting from the purchase of reinsurance by U.S. insurers from affiliates operating in some foreign jurisdictions, including Bermuda.  Such affiliated reinsurance transactions may subject the U.S. ceding companies to a Base Erosion and Anti-abuse Tax (“BEAT”) of 10% from 2019 to 2025 and 12.5% thereafter which may exceed its regular income tax.  In addition, new legislation as well as proposed and final regulations may further limit the ability of the Company to execute alternative capital balancing transactions with unrelated parties. This would further impact our net income and effective tax rate. On August 16, 2022, the Inflation Reduction Act (“IRA”) was enacted. We have evaluated the tax provisions of the IRA, the most significant of which are the corporate alternative minimum tax and the share repurchase excise tax and do not expect the legislation to have a material impact on our results of operations. On December 27, 2023, the Government of Bermuda enacted the Corporate Income Tax Act 2023, which will apply a 15% corporate income tax to certain Bermuda businesses in fiscal years beginning on or after January 1, 2025.  The act includes a provision referred to as “The Economic Transition Adjustment”, which is intended to provide a fair and equitable transition into the tax regime, and results in a deferred tax benefit for the Company. Group and/or Bermuda Re may be subject to U.S. corporate income tax, which would reduce our net income. Bermuda Re. The income of Bermuda Re is a sizable portion of our worldwide income from operations. We have established guidelines for the conduct of our operations that are designed to ensure that Bermuda Re is not engaged in the conduct of a trade or business in the U.S.  Based on its compliance with those guidelines, we believe that Bermuda Re should not be required to pay U.S. corporate income tax, other than withholding tax on U.S. source dividend income.  However, if the IRS were to successfully assert that Bermuda Re was engaged in a U.S. trade or business, Bermuda Re would be required to pay U.S. corporate income tax on all its income and possibly also the U.S. branch profits tax.  However, if the IRS were to successfully assert that Bermuda Re was engaged in a U.S. trade or business, we believe the U.S.-Bermuda tax treaty would preclude the IRS from taxing Bermuda Re’s income except to the extent that its income was attributable to a U.S. permanent establishment maintained by Bermuda Re.  We do not believe that Bermuda Re has a permanent establishment in the U.S.  If the IRS were to successfully assert that Bermuda Re did have income attributable to a permanent establishment in the U.S., Bermuda Re would be subject to U.S. tax only on that income.  This would reduce our net income. Group.  We conduct our operations in a manner designed to minimize our U.S. tax exposures. Based on our compliance with guidelines designed to ensure that we generate only immaterial amounts, if any, of income that is subject to the U.S. taxing jurisdiction, we believe that we should be required to pay only immaterial amounts, if any, of U.S. corporate income tax, other than withholding tax on U.S. source dividend income.  However, if the IRS successfully asserted that we had material amounts of income that was subject to the U.S. taxing jurisdiction, we would be required to pay U.S. corporate income tax on that income, and possibly the U.S. branch profits tax.  The imposition of such tax would reduce our net income. Bermuda Re and Group.  If Bermuda Re became subject to U.S. income tax on its income, or if Group became subject to income tax, our income could also be subject to U.S. branch profits tax.  In that event, Group and Bermuda Re would be subject to taxation at a higher combined effective rate than if they were organized as U.S. corporations.  The combined effect of the 21% U.S. corporate income tax rate and the 30% branch profits tax rate is a net tax rate of 44.7%.  The imposition of these taxes would reduce out net income. Our net income will be reduced if U.S. excise and withholding taxes are increased. Group and/or Bermuda Re may become subject to Bermuda tax, which would reduce our net income. 31 Table of Contents Reinsurance and insurance premiums paid to Bermuda Re with respect to risks located in the United States are subject to a U.S. federal excise tax of one percent.  In addition, Bermuda Re is subject to federal excise tax on reinsurance and insurance premiums with respect to risks located in the United States.  In addition, Bermuda Re is subject to withholding tax on dividend income from U.S. sources.  These taxes could increase, and other taxes could be imposed in the future on Bermuda Re’s business, which would reduce our net income. If U.S. tax law changes, our U.S. shareholders net income may be impacted. In January 2022, Treasury and the IRS released proposed regulations regarding the determination and inclusion of related-person insurance income (“RPII”).  The regulations, if finalized without modifications, could cause RPII to be attributable to the Company’s U.S. shareholders prospectively and therefore would incur additional income tax.  The imposition of such tax could reduce our U.S. shareholders return on investment in the Company.  Our U.S. shareholders pre-tax income and tax liabilities might be increased, reducing their net income.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following is a discussion and analysis of our results of operations and financial condition for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022.  This discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes, under ITEM 8 of this Form 10-K.  Pursuant to the FAST Act Modernization and Simplification of Regulation S-K, comparisons between 2022 and 2021 have been omitted from this Form 10-K but can be found in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Part II, Item 7 of our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022. All comparisons in this discussion are to the corresponding prior year unless otherwise indicated. Industry Conditions. The worldwide insurance and reinsurance businesses are highly competitive, as well as cyclical by product and market.  As a result, financial results tend to fluctuate with periods of constrained availability, higher rates and stronger profits followed by periods of abundant capacity, lower rates and constrained profitability.  Competition in the types of insurance and reinsurance business that we underwrite is based on many factors, including the perceived overall financial strength of the reinsurer or insurer, ratings of the reinsurer or insurer by A.M. Best and/or Standard & Poor’s, underwriting expertise, the jurisdictions where the reinsurer or insurer is licensed or otherwise authorized, capacity and coverages offered, premiums charged, other terms and conditions of the insurance and reinsurance business offered, services offered, speed of claims payment and reputation and experience in lines written.  Furthermore, the market impact from these competitive factors related to insurance and reinsurance is generally not consistent across lines of business, domestic and international geographical areas and distribution channels. Financial instruments such as side cars, catastrophe bonds and collateralized reinsurance funds, provided capital markets with access to insurance and reinsurance risk exposure.  The capital markets demand for these products is  primarily driven by the desire to achieve greater risk diversification and potentially higher returns on their investments.  This competition generally has a negative impact on rates, terms and conditions; however, the impact varies widely by market and coverage.  Based on recent competitive behaviors in the insurance and reinsurance industry, natural catastrophe events and the macroeconomic backdrop, there has been dislocation in the market which has had a positive impact on rates and terms and conditions, generally, though specifics in local markets can vary. Specifically, recent market conditions in property, particularly catastrophe excess of loss, have resulted in rate increases. As a result of the rate increases, most of the lines within property have been affected. Other casualty lines have been experiencing modest rate increases, while some lines such as workers’ compensation and directors and officers liability have been experiencing softer market conditions. The impact on pricing conditions is likely to change depending on the line of business and geography. Our capital position remains a source of strength, with high quality invested assets, significant liquidity and a low operating expense ratio. Our diversified global platform with its broad mix of products, distribution and geography is resilient. The recent emergence of the Middle East war and t he ongoing war in the Ukraine are evolving events.  Economic and legal sanctions have been levied against Russia, specific named individuals and entities connected to the Russian government, as well as businesses located in the Russian Federation and/or owned by Russian nationals in numerous countries, including the United States.  The significant political and economic uncertainty surrounding these wars and associated sanctions have impacted economic and investment markets both within Russia, Ukraine, the Middle East region, and around the world. 37 Table of Contents Financial Summary. We monitor and evaluate our overall performance based upon financial results.  The following table displays a summary of the consolidated net income (loss), ratios and shareholders’ equity for the periods indicated: (NM - not meaningful) (Some amounts may not reconcile due to rounding.) Revenues. Premiums. Gross written premiums increased by 19.2% to $16.6 billion in 2023, compared to $14.0 billion in 2022, reflecting a $2.2 billion, or 23.9% increase in our reinsurance business and a $473 million, or 10.0%, increase in our insurance business.  The increase in reinsurance premiums reflects growth across all lines of business, particularly property pro rata, and property excess of loss business.  The increase in insurance premiums reflects growth across multiple lines of business, particularly specialty casualty business, property/short tail business and other specialty business, driven by positive rate and exposure increases, new business and strong renewal retention.  Net written premiums increased by 19.3% to $14.7 billion in 2023, compared to $12.3 billion in 2022.  Premiums earned increased by 14.0% to $13.4 billion in 2023, compared to $11.8 billion in 2022, which is consistent with the percentage changes in gross written premiums.  The change in premiums earned relative to net written premiums was primarily the result of 38 Table of Contents timing; premiums are earned ratably over the coverage period whereas written premiums are generally recorded at the initiation of the coverage period. Other Income (Expense). We recorded other expense of $14 million and other expense of $102 million in 2023 and 2022, respectively.  The change was primarily the result of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.  We recognized foreign currency exchange expense of $24 million in 2023, partially offset by $8 million of income from Everest Group’s share of investment in the Mt. Logan segregated  cells. We recognized foreign currency exchange expense of $103 million in 2022. Claims and Expenses. Incurred Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses. The following table presents our incurred losses and loss adjustment expenses (“LAE”) for the periods indicated: (Some amounts may not reconcile due to rounding.) Incurred losses and LAE increased by 4.0% to $8.4 billion in 2023, compared to $8.1 billion in 2022, primarily due to an increase of $916 million in current year attritional losses, partially offset by a decrease of $585 million in current year catastrophe losses.  The  increase in current year attritional losses was mainly due to the impact of the increase in premiums earned and changes in the mix of business. The current year catastrophe losses of $470 million in 2023 related primarily to the 2023 Turkey earthquakes ($103 million), Hurricane Otis ($100 million), the 2023 Italy convective storm ($57 million), the 2023 New Zealand storms ($45 million), the 2023 Morocco earthquake ($40 million), the 2023 Hawaii wildfire ($32 million), and Hurricane Idalia ($23 million), with the remaining losses resulting from various storm events.  The $1.1 billion of current year catastrophe losses in 2022 related primarily to Hurricane Ian ($699 million), the 2022 Australia floods ($88 million), the 2022 Western Europe hailstorms ($69 million), the 2022 South Africa flood ($50 million), the 2022 and the Western Europe Convective Storm ($35 million), with the remaining losses resulting from various storm events. Catastrophe losses and loss expenses typically have a material effect on our incurred losses and loss adjustment expense results and can vary significantly from period to period.  Losses from natural catastrophes contributed 3.5 percentage points to the combined ratio in 2023, compared with 9.0 percentage points in 2022. The Company has up to $350 million of catastrophe bond protection (“CAT Bond”) that attaches at a $48.1 billion Property Claims Services (“PCS”) Industry 39 Table of Contents loss threshold.  This recovery would be recognized on a pro-rata basis up to a $63.8 billion PCS Industry loss level.  As a result of Hurricane Ian,  PCS’s current industry estimate of $48.2 billion issued in February 2024 exceeds the attachment point. The potential recovery under the CAT Bond is not expected to be material.  As a result, no portion of the potential CAT bond recovery has been included in the Company’s current financial results. Commission, Brokerage, Taxes and Fees. Commission, brokerage, taxes and fees increased by 16.7% to $3.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared to $2.5 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022.  The increase was primarily due to the impact of the increase in premiums earned, changes in the mix of business and $94 million of profit commission expense incurred in 2023 related to prior year loss reserves releases recorded within the Reinsurance segment. Other Underwriting Expenses. Other underwriting expenses were $846 million and $682 million in 2023 and 2022, respectively.  The increase in other underwriting expenses was mainly due to the impact of the increase in premiums earned as well as the continued build out of our insurance operations, including an expansion of the international insurance platform. Corporate Expenses. Corporate expenses, which are general operating expenses that are not allocated to segments, were $73 million and $61 million for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively.  The increase in 2023 compared to 2022 was mainly due to higher variable incentive compensation. Interest, Fees and Bond Issue Cost Amortization Expense. Interest, fees and other bond amortization expense was $134 million and $101 million in 2023 and 2022, respectively.  The increase was primarily due to movements in the floating interest rate related to the long-term subordinated notes, which is reset quarterly per the note agreement.  The floating rate was 8.03% as of December 31, 2023 compared to 6.99% as of December 31, 2022. Income Tax Expense (Benefit). Everest had an income tax benefit of $363 million and income tax benefit of $9 million in 2023 and 2022, respectively.  An income tax benefit is primarily a function of the geographic location of the Company’s pre-tax income and the statutory tax rates in those jurisdictions.  The effective tax rate (“ETR”) is primarily affected by tax-exempt investment income, foreign tax credits and dividends.  Variations in the ETR generally result from changes in the relative levels of pre-tax income, including the impact of catastrophe losses and net capital gains (losses), among jurisdictions with different tax rates. With the assent of the governor on December 27, 2023, the Bermuda Corporate Income Tax Act of 2023 (“The 2023 Act”) became law.  Beginning in 2025, a 15% corporate income tax will be applicable to Bermuda businesses that are part of multinational enterprise groups with annual revenue of €750 million or more.  Group’s Bermuda entities will be subject to the new corporate income tax.  The Company has evaluated The 2023 Act and has recorded $578 million of net deferred income tax benefits in 2023 related to it. The net deferred income tax benefits relate primarily to a default provision in the law which allows for what is called an “Economic Transition Adjustment” (“ETA”). The ETA allows companies to establish deferred tax assets or liabilities related to the revaluation of intangible assets, excluding goodwill, and their other assets and liabilities, based on fair value as of September 30, 2023.  The deferred tax assets or liabilities are then amortized in accordance with The 2023 Act. On August 16, 2022, the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (“IRA”) was enacted. We have evaluated the tax provisions of the IRA, the most significant of which are the corporate alternative minimum tax and the share repurchase excise tax and do not expect the legislation to have a material impact on our results of operations. Net Income (Loss). Our net income was $2.5 billion and $597 million in 2023 and 2022, respectiv ely.  The change was primarily driven by underwriting income of $1.2 billion and net investment income of $1.4 billion, partially offset by realized loss on investments of $276 million.  Additionally, there was an income tax benefit of $363 million primarily driven by the 2023 Act further discussed within Income Tax Expense (Benefit) section above. Ratios. Our combined ratio decreased by 5.1 points to 90.9% in 2023, compared to 96.0% in 2022.  The loss ratio component decreased by 6.0 points in 2023 over the same period last year mainly due to a decline of $585 million in catastrophe losses.  The commission and brokerage ratio components increased to 22.0% in 2023 compared to 21.4% in 2022. The 40 Table of Contents increase was mainly due to changes in the mix of business and profit commission expense related to prior year loss reserve releases within the Reinsurance segment.  The profit commission increased the 2023 commission ratio by 70 basis points.  The other underwriting expense ratio increased to 6.3% in 2023 compared to 5.8% in 2022.  The increase was mainly due to higher insurance operations costs. Shareholders’ Equity. Shareholders’ equity increased by $4.8 billion to $13.2 billion at December 31, 2023 from $8.4 billion at December 31, 2022, principally as a result of $2.5 billion of net income, $1.4 billion from a public equity offering of shares, $1.0 billion of unrealized appreciation on available for sale fixed maturity portfolio net of tax and $59 million of net foreign currency translation adjustments, partially offset by $288 million of shareholder dividends. Consolidated Investment Results Net Investment Income. Net investment income increased by 72.7% to $1.4 billion in 2023 compared with net investment income of $830 million in 2022.  The increase was primarily the result of an additional $523 million of income from fixed maturity and short-term investments and an increase of $47 million in limited partnership income.  The limited partnership income primarily reflects changes in their reported net asset values.  As such, until these asset values are monetized and the resultant income is distributed, they are subject to future increases or decreases in the asset value, and the results may be volatile. The following table shows the components of net investment income for the periods indicated: (Some amounts may not reconcile due to rounding.) The following tables show a comparison of various investment yields for the periods indicated: 41 Table of Contents The pre-tax equivalent total return for the bond portfolio was approximately 6.8% and (5.9)%, respectively, in 2023 and 2022. The pre-tax equivalent return adjusts the yield on tax-exempt bonds to the fully taxable equivalent. Net Gains (Losses) on Investments. The following table presents the composition of our net gains (losses) on investments for the periods indicated: (Some amounts may not reconcile due to rounding.) Net gains (losses) on investments in 2023 primarily consist of  $283 million of losses due to the disposition of investments, partially offset by a decrease to the allowance for credit losses of $7 million. The realized losses from dispositions of investments mainly related to the execution of a Company strategy to sell lower yielding investments in order to reinvest the proceeds at higher interest rates. Segment Results. The Company operates through two operating segments. The Reinsurance operation writes worldwide property and casualty reinsurance and specialty lines of business, on both a treaty and facultative basis, through reinsurance brokers, as well as directly with ceding companies.  Business is written in the U.S., Bermuda, and Ireland offices, as well as, through branches in Canada, Singapore, the UK and Switzerland.  The Insurance operation writes property and casualty 42 Table of Contents insurance directly and through brokers, including for surplus lines, and general agents within the U.S., Bermuda, Canada, Europe, Singapore and South America through its offices in the U.S., Bermuda, Canada, Chile, Singapore, the UK, Ireland, and branches located in the UK, the Netherlands, France, Germany and Spain. The two segments are managed independently, but conform with corporate guidelines with respect to pricing, risk management, control of aggregate catastrophe exposures, capital, investments and support operations. Our two operating segments each have executive leadership who are responsible for the overall performance of their respective segments and who are directly accountable to our chief operating decision maker (“CODM”), the Chief Executive Officer of Everest Group, Ltd., who is ultimately responsible for reviewing the business to assess performance, make operating decisions and allocate resources. We report the results of our operations consistent with the manner in which our CODM reviews the business. During the fourth quarter of 2023, the Company revised the classification and presentation of certain products related to its accident and health business within the segment groupings.  These products have been realigned from within the Reinsurance segment to the Insurance segment to appropriately reflect how the business segments are managed. These changes have been reflected retrospectively. The Company does not review and evaluate the financial results of its operating segments based upon balance sheet data.  Management generally monitors and evaluates the financial performance of these operating segments based upon their underwriting results.  Underwriting results include earned premium less losses and loss adjustment expenses (“LAE”) incurred, commission and brokerage expenses and other underwriting expenses.  The Company measures its underwriting results using ratios, in particular, loss, commission and brokerage and other underwriting expense ratios, which, respectively, divide incurred losses, commissions and brokerage and other underwriting expenses by premiums earned.  Management has determined that these measures are appropriate and align with how the business is managed. We continue to evaluate our segments as our business evolves and may further refine our segments and financial performance measures. The following discusses the underwriting results for each of our segments for the periods indicated. Reinsurance. The following table presents the underwriting results and ratios for the Reinsurance segment for the periods indicated: (NM, not meaningful) (Some amounts may not reconcile due to rounding.) Premiums. Gross written premiums increased by 23.9% to $11.5 billion in 2023 from $9.2 billion in 2022.  The increase in gross written premiums reflects growth across all lines of business, particularly property pro rata, and property excess of loss business.  Net written premiums increased by 21.1% to $10.8 billion in 2023 compared to $8.9 billion in 2022.  Premiums earned increased by 14.0% to $9.8 billion in 2023, compared to $8.6 billion in 2022.  The change in premiums earned relative to net written premiums is primarily the result of timing; premiums are earned ratably over the coverage period whereas written premiums are generally recorded at the initiation of the coverage period. 43 Table of Contents During 2023, the Company refined its premium estimation methodology for its risk attaching reinsurance contracts within its Reinsurance Segment to continue to recognize gross written premium over the term of the treaty, albeit over a different pattern than what was previously used. The refined estimate resulted in an increase of gross written premium for the twelve months ended December 31, 2023 period and has further aligned the estimation methodology across the reinsurance division globally. This change had no impact on the total written premium to be recognized over the term of the treaty.  There was no impact on net earned premium and therefore, no impact on income from continuing operations, net income, or any related per-share amounts. Incurred Losses and LAE. The following table presents the incurred losses and LAE for the Reinsurance segment for the periods indicated: (Some amounts may not reconcile due to rounding.) Incurred losses decreased by 4.5% to $5.7 billion in 2023, compared to $6.0 billion in 2022.  The decrease was primarily due to $397 million of favorable development on prior year attritional losses in 2023 and a decrease of $481 million in current year catastrophe losses, partially offset by an increase of $613 million in current year attritional losses. The favorable development mainly related to a combination of well seasoned mortgage and short-tail business.  The increase in current year attritional losses was mainly related to the impact of the increase in premiums earned. The current year catastrophe losses of $449 million in 2023 related primarily to the 2023 Turkey earthquakes ($103 million), Hurricane Otis ($100 million), the 2023 Italy convective storm ($57 million), the 2023 New Zealand storms ($43 million), the 2023 Morocco earthquake ($40 million), the 2023 Hawaii wildfire ($27 million), and Hurricane Idalia ($23 million), with the remaining losses resulting from various storm events.  The $930 million of current year catastrophe losses in 2022 related primarily to Hurricane Ian ($599 million), the 2022 Australia floods ($88 million), the Western Europe hailstorms ($69 million), the 2022 South Africa flood ($50 million), and the 2022 Western Europe Convective storm ($29 million), with the remaining losses resulting from various storm events. Segment Expenses. Commission and brokerage expense increased by 19.1% to $2.5 billion in 2023 compared to $2.1 billion in 2022.  The increase was mainly due to the impact of the increase in premiums earned and changes in the mix of business.  2023 commissions include approximately $94 million of profit commission expense related to the release of prior year reserves.  Segment other underwriting expenses increased to $255 million in 2023 from $217 million in 2022.  The increase was in line with the increase in written premium attributable to the planned expansion of the business. 44 Table of Contents Insurance. The following table presents the underwriting results and ratios for the Insurance segment for the periods indicated: (Some amounts may not reconcile due to rounding.) Premiums. Gross written premiums increased by 10.0% to $5.2 billion in 2023 compared to $4.7 billion in 2022.  The increase in insurance premiums reflects growth across multiple lines of business, particularly specialty casualty, property/short tail business and other specialty business, driven by positive rate and exposure increases, new business and strong renewal retention.  Net written premiums increased by 14.7% to $3.9 billion in 2023 compared to $3.4 billion in 2022.  The higher percentage increase in net written premiums compared to gross written premiums was mainly due to higher net retention resulting from changes in the mix of business. Premiums earned increased 14.3% to $3.6 billion in 2023 compared to $3.2 billion in 2022.  The change in premiums earned relative to net written premiums is primarily the result of timing; premiums are earned ratably over the coverage period whereas written premiums are generally recorded at the initiation of the coverage period. 45 Table of Contents Incurred Losses and LAE. The following table presents the incurred losses and LAE for the Insurance segment for the periods indicated: (Some amounts may not reconcile due to rounding.) Incurred losses and LAE increased by 28.0% to $2.7 billion in 2023 compared to $2.1 billion in 2022.  The increase was mainly due to unfavorable development on prior years attritional losses of $392 million in 2023, mainly related to casualty lines in accident years 2016 through 2019 that were impacted by social inflation and an increase of $303 million in current year attritional losses, partially offset by a decrease in current year catastrophe losses of $105 million.  The increase in current year attritional losses was primarily due to the impact of the increase in premiums earned.  The current year catastrophe losses of $20 million primarily related to the 2023 third quarter U.S. storms ($5 million), the 2023 Hawaii wildfire ($5 million) and the 2023 December U.S. East Coast flooding ($5 million), with the remaining losses resulting from various storm events.  The $125 million of current year catastrophe losses in 2022 primarily related to Hurricane Ian ($99 million), with the remaining losses resulting from various storm events. Segment Expenses. Commission and brokerage increased by 4.6% to $432 million in 2023 compared to $413 million in 2022.  Segment other underwriting expenses increased to $591 million in 2023 compared to $464 million in 2022.  These increases were mainly due to the impact of the increase in premiums earned and increased expenses related to the continued build out of the insurance business, including an expansion of the international insurance platform. Critical Accounting Estimates The following is a summary of the critical accounting estimates related to accounting estimates that (1) require management to make assumptions about highly uncertain matters and (2) could materially impact the consolidated financial statements if management made different assumptions. Loss and LAE Reserves. Our most critical accounting estimate is the determination of our loss and LAE reserves.  We maintain reserves equal to our estimated ultimate liability for losses and LAE for reported and unreported claims for our insurance and reinsurance businesses.  Because reserves are based on estimates of ultimate losses and LAE by underwriting or accident year, we use a variety of statistical and actuarial techniques to monitor reserve adequacy over time, evaluate new information as it becomes known and adjust reserves whenever an adjustment appears warranted.  We consider many factors when setting reserves including:  (1) our exposure base and projected ultimate premiums 46 Table of Contents earned; (2) our expected loss ratios by product and class of business, which are developed collaboratively by underwriters and actuaries; (3) actuarial methodologies and assumptions which analyze our loss reporting and payment experience, reports from ceding companies and historical trends, such as reserving patterns, loss payments and product mix; (4) current legal interpretations of coverage and liability; and (5) economic conditions.  Our insurance and reinsurance loss and LAE reserves represent management’s best estimate of our ultimate liability. Actual losses and LAE ultimately paid may deviate, perhaps substantially, from such reserves.  Our net income (loss) will be impacted in a period in which the change in estimated ultimate losses and LAE is recorded.  See also ITEM 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” - Note 1 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. It is more difficult to accurately estimate loss reserves for reinsurance liabilities than for insurance liabilities.  At December 31, 2023, we had reinsurance loss reserves of $17.4 billion, of which $246 million were loss reserves for A&E liabilities, and insurance loss reserves of $7.0 billion.  A detailed discussion of additional considerations related to A&E exposures follows later in this section. The detailed data required to evaluate ultimate losses for our insurance business is accumulated from our underwriting and claim systems.  Reserving for reinsurance requires evaluation of loss information received from ceding companies.  Ceding companies report losses to us in many ways depending on the type of contract and the agreed or contractual reporting requirements. Generally, proportional/quota share contracts require the submission of a monthly/quarterly account, which includes premium and loss activity for the period with corresponding reserves as established by the ceding company. This information is recorded into our records. For certain proportional contracts, we may require a detailed loss report for claims that exceed a certain dollar threshold or relate to a particular type of loss.  Excess of loss and facultative contracts generally require individual loss reporting with precautionary notices provided when a loss reaches a significant percentage of the attachment point of the contract or when certain causes of loss or types of injury occur.  Our experienced Claims staff handles individual loss reports and supporting claim information.  Based on our evaluation of a claim, we may establish additional case reserves (ACRs) in addition to the case reserves reported by the ceding company. To ensure ceding companies are submitting required and accurate data, the Underwriting, Claim, Reinsurance Accounting and Internal Audit departments of the Company perform various reviews of our ceding companies, particularly larger ceding companies, including on-site audits of domestic ceding companies. We sort both our reinsurance and insurance reserves into exposure groupings for actuarial analysis.  We assign our business to exposure groupings so that the underlying exposures have reasonably homogeneous loss development characteristics and are large enough to facilitate credible estimation of ultimate losses.  We periodically review our exposure groupings, and we may change our groupings over time as our business changes.  We currently use over 200 exposure groupings to develop our reserve estimates.  One of the key selection characteristics for the exposure groupings is the historical duration of the claims settlement process.  Business in which claims are reported and settled relatively quickly are commonly referred to as short tail lines, principally property lines.  Casualty claims tend to take longer to be reported and settled and casualty lines are generally referred to as long tail lines.  Our estimates of ultimate losses for shorter tail lines, with the exception of loss estimates for large catastrophic events, generally exhibit less volatility than those for the longer tail lines. We use similar actuarial methodologies, such as expected loss ratio, chain ladder reserving methods and Bornhuetter-Ferguson, supplemented by judgment where appropriate, to estimate our ultimate losses and LAE for each exposure group. Although we use similar actuarial methodologies for both short tail and long tail lines, the faster reporting of experience for the short tail lines allows us to have greater confidence in our estimates of ultimate losses for short tail lines at an earlier stage than for long tail lines.  As a result, we utilize, as well, exposure-based methods to estimate our ultimate losses for longer tail lines, especially for immature accident years.  For both short and long tail lines, we supplement these general approaches with analytically based judgments.  We cannot estimate losses from widespread catastrophic events, such as hurricanes and earthquakes, using traditional actuarial methods.  We estimate losses for these types of events based on information derived from catastrophe models, quantitative and qualitative exposure analyses, reports and communications from ceding companies and development patterns for historically similar events.  Due to the inherent uncertainty in estimating such losses, these estimates are subject to variability, which increases with the severity and complexity of the underlying event. Our key actuarial assumptions contain no explicit provisions for reserve uncertainty, nor do we supplement the actuarially determined reserves for uncertainty. Our carried reserves at each reporting date are management’s best estimate of ultimate unpaid losses and LAE at that date.  We complete detailed reserve studies for each exposure group annually for our reinsurance and insurance 47 Table of Contents operations.  The completed annual reinsurance reserve studies are “rolled forward” for each accounting period until the subsequent reserve study is completed.  Analyzing the roll-forward process involves comparing actual reported losses to expected losses based on the most recent reserve study.  We analyze significant variances between actual and expected losses and also consider recent market, underwriting and management criteria to determine management’s best estimate of ultimate unpaid losses and LAE.  Management’s best estimate is developed through collaboration with actuarial, underwriting, claims, legal and finance departments and culminates with the input of reserve committees. Each segment reserve committee includes the participation of the relevant parties from actuarial, finance, claims and segment senior management and has the responsibility for recommending and approving management’s best estimate.  Reserves are further reviewed by Everest’s Chief Reserving Actuary and senior management.  The objective of such process is to determine a single best estimate viewed by management to be the best estimate of its ultimate loss liability.   As a result of these additional factors, in some instances the selected reserve level may be higher or lower than the actuarial indicated estimate. Given the inherent variability in our loss reserves, we have developed an estimated range of possible gross reserve levels.  A table of ranges by segment, accompanied by commentary on potential and historical variability, is included in “Financial Condition - Loss and LAE Reserves”.  The ranges are developed using the exposure groups used in the published global loss triangles.  For each exposure group, our actuaries calculate a range of possible ultimate losses for each accident year. These ranges are calculated by applying a variety of different acceptable actuarial methods, and varying the parameter selections withing a reasonable set of possibilities.  Our estimates of our reserve variability may not be comparable to those of other companies because there are no consistently applied actuarial or accounting standards governing such presentations.  Our recorded reserves reflect our best point estimate of our liabilities and our actuarial methodologies focus on developing such point estimates.  We calculate the ranges subsequently, based on the historical variability of such reserves. Asbestos and Environmental Exposures. We continue to receive claims under expired insurance and reinsurance contracts asserting injuries and/or damages relating to or resulting from environmental pollution and hazardous substances, including asbestos.  Environmental claims typically assert liability for (a) the mitigation or remediation of environmental contamination or (b) bodily injury or property damage caused by the release of hazardous substances into the land, air or water.  Asbestos claims typically assert liability for bodily injury from exposure to asbestos or for property damage resulting from asbestos or products containing asbestos. Our reserves include an estimate of our ultimate liability for A&E claims.  There are significant uncertainties surrounding our estimates of our potential losses from A&E claims. Among the uncertainties are: (a) potentially long waiting periods between exposure and manifestation of any bodily injury or property damage; (b) difficulty in identifying sources of asbestos or environmental contamination; (c) difficulty in properly allocating responsibility and/or liability for asbestos or environmental damage; (d) changes in underlying laws and judicial interpretation of those laws; (e) the potential for an asbestos or environmental claim to involve many insurance providers over many policy periods; (f) questions concerning interpretation and application of insurance and reinsurance coverage; and (g) uncertainty regarding the number and identity of insureds with potential asbestos or environmental exposure. Due to the uncertainties discussed above, the ultimate losses attributable to A&E, and particularly asbestos, may be subject to more variability than are non-A&E reserves and such variation could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and/or cash flows.  See also ITEM 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” - Notes 1 and 4 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Reinsurance Recoverables. We have purchased reinsurance to reduce our exposure to adverse claim experience, large claims and catastrophic loss occurrences.  Our ceded reinsurance provides for recovery from reinsurers of a portion of losses and loss expenses under certain circumstances.  Such reinsurance does not relieve us of our obligation to our policyholders.  In the event our reinsurers are unable to meet their obligations under these agreements or are able to successfully challenge losses ceded by us under the contracts, we will not be able to realize the full value of the reinsurance recoverable balance.  In some cases, we may hold full or partial collateral for the receivable, including letters of credit, trust assets and cash.  Additionally, creditworthy foreign reinsurers of business written in the U.S., as well as capital markets’ reinsurance mechanisms, are generally required to secure their obligations.  We have established reserves for uncollectible balances based on our assessment of the collectability of the outstanding balances. The allowance for uncollectible reinsurance reflects management’s best estimate of reinsurance cessions that may be uncollectible in the future due to reinsurers’ unwillingness or inability to pay. The allowance for uncollectible reinsurance comprises an allowance and an allowance for disputed balances. Based on this analysis, the Company may adjust the allowance for uncollectible reinsurance or charge off reinsurer balances that are determined to be uncollectible. 48 Table of Contents Due to the inherent uncertainties as to collection and the length of time before reinsurance recoverable become due, it is possible that future adjustments to the Company’s reinsurance recoverable, net of the allowance, could be required, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated results of operations or cash flows in a particular quarter or annual period. The allowance is estimated as the amount of reinsurance recoverable exposed to loss multiplied by estimated factors for the probability of default. The reinsurance recoverable exposed is the amount of reinsurance recoverable net of collateral and other offsets, considering the nature of the collateral, potential future changes in collateral values, and historical loss information for the type of collateral obtained.  The probability of default factors are historical insurer and reinsurer defaults for liabilities with similar durations to the reinsured liabilities as estimated through multiple economic cycles. Credit ratings are forward-looking and consider a variety of economic outcomes. The Company's evaluation of the required allowance for reinsurance recoverable considers the current economic environment as well as macroeconomic scenarios. The Company records credit loss expenses related to reinsurance recoverable in Incurred losses and loss adjustment expenses in the Company’s consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income (loss).  Write-offs of reinsurance recoverable and any related allowance are recorded in the period in which the balance is deemed uncollectible. Premiums Written and Earned. Premiums written by us are earned ratably over the coverage periods of the related insurance and reinsurance contracts.  We establish unearned premium reserves to cover the unexpired portion of each contract.  Such reserves, for assumed reinsurance, are computed using pro rata methods based on statistical data received from ceding companies.  Premiums earned, and the related costs, which have not yet been reported to us, are estimated and accrued.  Because of the inherent lag in the reporting of written and earned premiums by our ceding companies, we use standard accepted actuarial methodologies to estimate earned but not reported premium at each financial reporting date. These earned but not reported premiums are combined with reported earned premiums to comprise our total premiums earned for determination of our incurred losses and loss and LAE reserves.  Commission expense and incurred losses related to the change in earned but not reported premium are included in current period company and segment financial results.  See also ITEM 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” -  Note 1 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The following table displays the estimated components of net earned but not reported premiums by segment for the periods indicated: (Some amounts may not reconcile due to rounding.) Investment Valuation. Our fixed income investments are classified for accounting purposes as either available for sale or held to maturity.  The available for sale fixed maturity securities are carried at fair value and the held to maturity fixed maturity portfolio is carried at amortized cost, net of current expected credit allowance on our consolidated balance sheets.  Our equity securities are all carried at fair value.  Most securities we own are traded on national exchanges where market values are readily available.  Some of our CMBS are valued using cash flow models and risk-adjusted discount rates.  We hold some privately placed securities, less than 10% of the portfolio, which are either valued by investment advisors or the Company.  In some instances, values provided by an investment advisor are supported with opinions from qualified independent third parties.  The Company has procedures in place to review the values received from its investment advisors.  At December 31, 2023 and 2022, our investment portfolio included a total of $4.5 billion  and $3.8 billion of limited partnership investments, whose values are reported pursuant to the equity method of accounting, and Company Owned Life Insurance (“COLI”) policies, whose values are reported at cash surrender value.  We carry the limited partnership investments at values provided by the managements of the limited partnerships and due to inherent reporting lags, the carrying values are based on values with “as of” dates from one month to one quarter prior to our financial statement date. At December 31, 2023, we had net unrealized losses on our available for sale fixed maturity securities, net of tax, of $723 million compared to net unrealized losses on our available for sale fixed maturity securities, net of tax, of $1.7 billion at 49 Table of Contents December 31, 2022.  Gains (losses) from market fluctuations on available for sale fixed maturity securities  at fair  value are reflected as accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in the consolidated balance sheets.  Market value declines for available for sale fixed income portfolio, which are considered credit related, are reflected in our consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income (loss), as realized capital losses.  We consider many factors when determining whether a market value decline is credit related, including:  (1) we have no intent to sell and, more likely than not, will not be required to sell prior to recovery, (2) the credit strength of the issuer, (3) the issuer’s market sector, (4) the length of time to maturity and (5) for asset-backed securities, changes in prepayments, credit enhancements and underlying default rates.  If management’s assessments change in the future, we may ultimately record a realized loss after management originally concluded that the decline in value was not attributed to credit related factors. Fixed maturity securities designated as held to maturity consist of debt securities for which the Company has both the positive intent and ability to hold to maturity or redemption and are reported at amortized cost, net of the current expected credit loss allowance.  Interest income for fixed maturity securities held to maturity is determined in the same manner as interest income for fixed maturity securities available for sale.  The Company evaluates fixed maturity securities classified as held to maturity for current expected credit losses utilizing risk characteristics of each security, including credit rating, remaining time to maturity, adjusted for prepayment considerations, and subordination level, and applying default and recovery rates, which include the incorporation of historical credit loss experience and macroeconomic forecasts, to develop an estimate of current expected credit losses. Tax. With the assent of the governor on December 27, 2023, the Bermuda Corporate Income Tax Act of 2023 (“The 2023 Act”) became law. Beginning in 2025, a 15% corporate income tax will be applicable to Bermuda businesses that are part of multinational enterprise groups with annual revenue of €750 million or more.  Group’s Bermuda entities will be subject to the new corporate income tax. The Company has evaluated The 2023 Act and has recorded $578 million of net deferred income tax benefits in 2023 related to it. The net deferred income tax benefits relate primarily to a default provision in the law which allows for what is called an “Economic Transition Adjustment” (“ETA”). The ETA allows companies to establish deferred tax assets or liabilities related to the revaluation of intangible assets, excluding goodwill, and their other assets and liabilities, based on fair value as of September 30, 2023.  The deferred tax assets or liabilities are then amortized in accordance with The 2023 Act. The net deferred tax assets principally relate to the identifiable intangible assets.  We estimated the fair value of the identifiable intangible assets using discounted future cash flow models.  The significant assumptions utilized in the discounted future cash flow models include the forecasted revenues and expected profits to be generated by the identifiable intangible assets and discount rates. See also ITEM 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” - Note 1 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. FINANCIAL CONDITION Investments. Total investments were $35.7 billion at December 31, 2023, an increase of $7.2 billion compared to $28.5 billion at December 31, 2022. The rise in investments was primarily related to an increase in fixed maturity securities, short-term investments and other invested assets. The increases in fixed maturity securities and short-term investments were primarily driven by reinvestment of the Company’s operating cash flow of $4.6 billion in 2023. The Company’s limited partnership investments are comprised of limited partnerships that invest in private equity, private credit and private real estate.  Generally, the limited partnerships are reported on a month or quarter lag.  We receive annual audited financial statements for all of the limited partnerships which are mostly prepared using fair value accounting in accordance with US GAAP guidance.  For the quarterly reports, the Company reviews the financial reports for any unusual changes in carrying value.  If the Company becomes aware of a significant decline in value during the lag reporting period, the loss will be recorded in the period in which the Company identifies the decline. The table below summarizes the composition and characteristics of our investment portfolio as of the dates indicated: 50 Table of Contents Reinsurance Recoverables. Reinsurance recoverables for both paid and unpaid losses totaled $2.3 billion at December 31, 2023 and $2.2 billion at December 31, 2022. At December 31, 2023, $413 million, or 18.3%, was recoverable from Mt. Logan Re collateralized segregated accounts; $266 million, or 11.8%, was recoverable from Munich Reinsurance America, Inc.; $185 million, or 8.2%, was recoverable from Associated Electric and Gas Insurance Services Limited; $163 million, or 7.2%, was recoverable from Endurance Assurance Corporation of America and $120 million or 5.3% was recoverable from Hannover Rueckversicherung Se.  No other retrocessionaire accounted for more than 5% of our recoverables. Loss and LAE Reserves. Gross loss and LAE reserves totaled $24.6 billion and $22.1 billion at December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. The following tables summarize gross outstanding loss and LAE reserves by segment, classified by case reserves and IBNR reserves, for the periods indicated: (Some amounts may not reconcile due to rounding.) (Some amounts may not reconcile due to rounding.) Changes in premiums earned and business mix, reserve re-estimations, catastrophe losses and changes in catastrophe loss reserves and claim settlement activity all impact loss and LAE reserves by segment and in total. Our carried loss and LAE reserves represent management’s best estimate of our ultimate liability for unpaid claims.  We continuously re-evaluate our reserves, including re-estimates of prior period reserves, taking into consideration all available information and, in particular, newly reported loss and claim experience.  Changes in reserves resulting from such re-evaluations are reflected in incurred losses in the period when the re-evaluation is made.  Our analytical methods and processes operate at multiple levels including individual contracts, groupings of like contracts, classes and lines of business, internal business units, segments, accident years, legal entities, and in the aggregate.  In order to set appropriate reserves, we make qualitative and quantitative analyses and judgments at these various levels.  We utilize actuarial science, business expertise and management judgment in a manner intended to ensure the accuracy and consistency of our reserving practices.  Management’s best estimate is developed through collaboration with actuarial, underwriting, claims, legal and finance departments and culminates with the input of reserve committees. Each segment reserve committee includes the participation of the relevant parties from actuarial, finance, claims and segment senior management and has the responsibility for recommending and approving management’s best estimate.  Reserves are further reviewed by Everest’s Chief Reserving Actuary and senior management.  The objective of such process is to determine a single best estimate viewed by management to be the best estimate of its ultimate loss liability.   Nevertheless, our reserves are estimates, which are subject to variation, which may be significant. There can be no assurance that reserves for, and losses from, claim obligations will not increase in the future, possibly by a material amount.  However, we believe that our existing reserves and reserving methodologies lessen the probability that any such increase would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 51 Table of Contents We have included ranges for loss reserve estimates determined by our actuaries, which have been developed through a combination of objective and subjective criteria.  Our presentation of this information may not be directly comparable to similar presentations of other companies as there are no consistently applied actuarial or accounting standards governing such presentations.  Our recorded reserves are an aggregation of our best point estimates for approximately 200 reserve groups and reflect our best point estimate of our liabilities. Our actuarial methodologies develop point estimates rather than ranges and the ranges are developed subsequently based upon historical and prospective variability measures. The following table below represents the reserve levels and ranges for each of our business segments for the period indicated: (Some amounts may not reconcile due to rounding.) (1) There can be no assurance that reserves will not ultimately exceed the indicated ranges requiring additional income (loss) statement expense. Depending on the specific segment, the range derived for the loss reserves, excluding reserves for A&E exposures, ranges from minus 9.0% to minus 13.6% for the low range and from plus 9.0% to plus 13.6% for the high range.  Both the higher and lower ranges are associated with the Insurance segment.  The size of the range is dependent upon the level of confidence associated with the reserve estimates.  Within each range, management’s best estimate of loss reserves is based upon the point estimate derived by our actuaries in detailed reserve studies.  Such ranges are necessarily subjective due to the lack of generally accepted actuarial standards with respect to their development.  There can be no assurance that our claim obligations will not vary outside of these ranges. Additional losses, including those relating to latent injuries, and other exposures, which are as yet unrecognized, the type or magnitude of which cannot be foreseen by us or the reinsurance and insurance industry generally, may emerge in the future.  Such future emergence, to the extent not covered by existing retrocessional contracts, could have material adverse effects on our future financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Asbestos and Environmental Exposures. A&E exposures represent a separate exposure group for monitoring and evaluating reserve adequacy. With respect to asbestos only, at December 31, 2023, we had net asbestos loss reserves of $209 million, or 90.4%, of total net A&E reserves, all of which was for assumed business. See Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a summary of Asbestos and Environmental Exposures. Ultimate loss projections for A&E liabilities cannot be accomplished using standard actuarial techniques.  We believe that our A&E reserves represent management’s best estimate of the ultimate liability; however, there can be no assurance that ultimate loss payments will not exceed such reserves, perhaps by a significant amount. Industry analysts use the “survival ratio” to compare the A&E reserves among companies with such liabilities.  The survival ratio is typically calculated by dividing a company’s current net reserves by the three year average of annual paid losses.  Hence, the survival ratio equals the number of years that it would take to exhaust the current reserves if future loss payments were to continue at historical levels.  Using this measurement, our net three year asbestos survival ratio was 6.5 years at December 31, 2023.  These metrics can be skewed by individual large settlements occurring in the prior three years and therefore, may not be indicative of the timing of future payments. 52 Table of Contents LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Capital. Shareholders’ equity at December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022 was $13.2 billion and $8.4 billion, respectively.  Management’s objective in managing capital is to ensure its overall capital level, as well as the capital levels of its operating subsidiaries, exceed the amounts required by regulators, the amount needed to support our current financial strength ratings from rating agencies and our own economic capital models.  The Company’s capital has historically exceeded these benchmark levels. Our two main operating companies Bermuda Re and Everest Re are regulated by the Bermuda Monetary Authority (“BMA”) and the State of Delaware, Department of Insurance, respectively.  Both regulatory bodies have their own capital adequacy models based on statutory capital as opposed to GAAP basis equity.  Bermuda Re is subject to the Bermuda Solvency Capital Requirement (“BSCR”) administered by the BMA and Everest Re is subject to the RBC developed by the The U.S. National Association of Insurance Commissioners (“NAIC”).  Failure to meet the required statutory capital levels could result in various regulatory restrictions, including with respect to business activity and the payment of dividends to their parent companies. The regulatory targeted capital and the actual statutory capital for Bermuda Re and Everest Re were as follows: (1) Regulatory targeted capital represents the target capital level from the applicable year's BSCR calculation. (2) Regulatory targeted capital represents 200% of the RBC authorized control level calculation for the applicable year. (3) The 2023 BSCR calculation is not yet due to be completed; however, the Company anticipates that Bermuda Re's December 31, 2023 actual capital will exceed the targeted capital level.  In accordance with guidance issued by the BMA in February 2024, Bermuda Re has not reflected the impacts of the Economic Transition Adjustment recognized in response to the Bermuda Corporate Income Tax Act of 2023 (“the 2023 Act”) in its 2023 regulatory targeted capital or actual capital. The BMA expects to complete its assessment before the 2023 Act becomes effective and to issue directives within a timeline that will be compatible with the 2023 Act coming into effect. Our financial strength ratings as determined by A.M. Best, Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s are important as they provide our customers and investors with an independent assessment of our financial strength using a rating scale that provides for relative comparisons.  We continue to possess significant financial flexibility and access to debt and equity markets as a result of our financial strength, as evidenced by the financial strength ratings as assigned by independent rating agencies.  See also ITEM 1, Business - “Financial Strength Ratings”. We maintain our own economic capital models to monitor and project our overall capital as well as the capital at our operating subsidiaries.  A key input to the economic models is projected income and this input is continually compared to actual results, which may require a change in the capital strategy. In 2023, we repurchased no shares in the open market and paid $288 million in dividends.  During 2022, we repurchased 241,273 shares for $61 million in the open market and paid $255 million in dividends.  We may at times enter into a Rule 10b5-1 repurchase plan agreement to facilitate the repurchase of shares.  On May 22, 2020, our existing Board authorization to purchase up to 30 million of our shares was amended to authorize the purchase of up to 32 million shares.  As of December 31, 2023, we had repurchased 30.8 million shares under this authorization. On May 19, 2023, the Company completed the public offering of 4,140,000 common shares, which includes full exercise of the underwriters’ option to purchase an additional 540,000 common shares, at a public offering price of $360.00 per share. Total net proceeds from the public offering were $1,445 million, after underwriting discount and expenses. The Company intends to use the net proceeds from this offering for long-term reinsurance opportunities and continuing build out of the global insurance business. We repurchased $6 million of our long-term subordinated notes during the third quarter of 2022 and recognized a gain of $1 million on the repurchase.  We may continue, from time to time, to seek to retire portions of our outstanding debt securities through cash repurchases, in open-market purchases, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. Such repurchases, if any, will be subject to and depend on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors. The amounts involved in any such transactions, individually or in the aggregate, may be material. 53 Table of Contents On October 4, 2021, we issued an additional $1.0 billion of 31 year senior notes with an interest coupon rate of 3.125%.  These senior notes will mature on October 15, 2052 and will pay interest semi-annually. Liquidity. Our liquidity requirements are generally met from positive cash flow from operations.  Positive cash flow results from reinsurance and insurance premiums being collected prior to disbursements for claims with disbursements generally taking place over an extended period after the collection of premiums, sometimes a period of many years.  Collected premiums are generally invested, prior to their use in such disbursements, and investment income provides additional funding for loss payments.  Our net cash flows from operating activities were $4.6 billion and $3.7 billion for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively.  Additionally, these cash flows reflected net catastrophe loss payments of $858 million and $677 million for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively and net tax payments of $196 million and $171 million for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. If disbursements for losses and LAE, policy acquisition costs and other operating expenses were to exceed premium inflows, cash flow from reinsurance and insurance operations would be negative.  The effect on cash flow from insurance operations would be partially offset by cash flow from investment income. Additionally, cash inflows from investment maturities - both short-term investments and longer-term maturities are available to supplement other operating cash flows.  We do not expect to supplement negative insurance operations cash flows from investment dispositions. As the timing of payments for losses and LAE cannot be predicted with certainty, we maintain portfolios of long term invested assets with varying maturities, along with short-term investments that provide additional liquidity for payment of claims.  At December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, we held cash and short-term investments of $3.6 billion and $2.4 billion, respectively.  Our short-term investments are generally readily marketable and can be converted to cash.  In addition to these cash and short-term investments, at December 31, 2023, we had $1.3 billion of available for sale fixed maturity securities maturing within one year or less, $6.9 billion maturing within one to five years and $7.9 billion maturing after five years.  We believe that these fixed maturity securities, in conjunction with the short-term investments and positive cash flow from operations, provide ample sources of liquidity for the expected payment of losses and LAE in the near future.  We do not anticipate selling a significant amount of securities.  Sales of securities might result in realized gains or losses.  At December 31, 2023 we had $780 million of net pre-tax unrealized depreciation related to fixed maturity - available for sale securities, comprised of $1.1 billion of pre-tax unrealized depreciation and $358 million of pre-tax unrealized appreciation. Management generally expects annual positive cash flow from operations, which reflects the strength of overall pricing as well as the growth in business written.  However, given catastrophic events observed in recent periods, cash flow from operations may decline and could become negative in the near term as significant claim payments are made related to the catastrophes.  However, as indicated above, the Company has ample liquidity to settle its catastrophe claims and/or any payments due for its catastrophe bond program. In addition to our cash flows from operations and liquid investments, we also have multiple active credit facilities that provide commitments of up to $1.7 billion of collateralized standby letters of credit to support business written by our Bermuda operating subsidiaries.  In addition, the Company has the ability to request access to an additional $240 million of uncommitted credit facilities, which would require approval from the applicable lender.  There is no guarantee the uncommitted capacity will be available to us on a future date.  See Note 7 - Credit Facilities for further details. Exposure to Catastrophes. Like other insurance and reinsurance companies, we are exposed to multiple insured losses arising out of a single occurrence, whether a natural event, such as a hurricane or an earthquake, or other catastrophe, such as an explosion at a major factory. A large catastrophic event can be expected to generate insured losses to multiple reinsurance treaties, facultative certificates and direct insurance policies across various lines of business. We focus on potential losses that could result from any single event, or series of events as part of our evaluation and monitoring of our aggregate exposures to catastrophic events. Accordingly, we employ various techniques to estimate the amount of loss we could sustain from any single catastrophic event or series of events in various geographic areas. These techniques range from deterministic approaches, such as tracking aggregate limits exposed in catastrophe-prone zones and applying reasonable damage factors, to modeled approaches that attempt to scientifically measure catastrophe loss exposure using sophisticated Monte Carlo simulation techniques that forecast frequency and severity of potential losses on a probabilistic basis. No single computer model or group of models is currently capable of projecting the amount and probability of loss in all global geographic regions in which we conduct business. In addition, the form, quality and granularity of underwriting 54 Table of Contents exposure data furnished by (re)insureds is not uniformly compatible with the data requirements for our licensed models, which adds to the inherent imprecision in the potential loss projections. Further, the results from multiple models and analytical methods must be combined to estimate potential losses by and across business units.  Also, while most models have been updated to incorporate claims information from recent catastrophic events, catastrophe model projections are still inherently imprecise.  In addition, uncertainties with respect to future climatic patterns and cycles could add further uncertainty to loss projections from models based on historical data. Nevertheless, when combined with traditional risk management techniques and sound underwriting judgment, catastrophe models are a useful tool for underwriters to price catastrophe exposed risks and for providing management with quantitative analyses with which to monitor and manage catastrophic risk exposures by zone and across zones for individual and multiple events. Projected catastrophe losses are generally summarized in terms of the probable maximum loss (“PML”).  We define PML as our anticipated loss, taking into account contract terms and limits, caused by a single catastrophe affecting a broad contiguous geographic area, such as that caused by a hurricane or earthquake.  The PML will vary depending upon the modeled simulated losses and the make-up of the in-force book of business.  The projected severity levels are described in terms of “return periods”, such as “100-year events” and “250-year events”. For example, a 100-year PML is the estimated loss to the current in-force portfolio from a single event which has a 1% probability of being exceeded in a twelve month period.  In other words, it corresponds to a 99% probability that the loss from a single event will fall below the indicated PML.  It is important to note that PMLs are estimates.  Modeled events are hypothetical events produced by a stochastic model.  As a result, there can be no assurance that any actual event will align with the modeled event or that actual losses from events similar to the modeled events will not vary materially from the modeled event PML. From an enterprise risk management perspective, management sets limits on the levels of catastrophe loss exposure we may underwrite.  The limits are revised periodically based on a variety of factors, including but not limited to our financial resources and expected earnings and risk/reward analyses of the business being underwritten. Management estimates that the projected net economic loss from its largest 100-year event in a given zone is to an Earthquake event affecting California which represents approximately 7.8% of its December 31, 2023 shareholders’ equity.  Economic loss is the PML exposure, net of third party reinsurance including catastrophe industry loss warranty cover, reduced by estimated reinstatement premiums to renew coverage and estimated income taxes.  The impact of income taxes on the PML depends on the distribution of the losses by corporate entity, which is also affected by inter-affiliate reinsurance.  Management also monitors and controls its largest PMLs at multiple points along the loss distribution curve, such as loss amounts at the 20, 50, 100, 250, and 500 year return periods.  This process enables management to identify and control exposure accumulations and to integrate such exposures into enterprise risk, underwriting and capital management decisions. Our catastrophe loss projections, segmented by risk zones, are updated quarterly and reviewed as part of a formal risk management review process.  Each segment and business unit manages its underwriting risk in accordance with established guidelines. These guidelines place dollar limits on the amount of business that can be written based on a variety of factors, including (re)insured company profile, line of business, geographic location and risk hazards. In each case, the guidelines permit limited exceptions, which must be authorized by the Company’s senior management. Management regularly reviews and revises these guidelines in response to changes in business unit product offerings, market conditions, risk versus reward analyses and our enterprise and underwriting risk management processes. Our operating results and financial condition can be adversely affected by catastrophe and other large losses. We manage our exposure to catastrophes and other large losses by: • selective underwriting practices; • diversifying our risk portfolio by geographic area and by types and classes of business; • limiting our aggregate catastrophe loss exposure in any particular geographic zone and contiguous zones; • purchasing reinsurance and/or retrocessional protection to the extent that such coverage can be secured cost-effectively. See “Reinsurance and Retrocession Arrangements”. 55 Table of Contents We believe that our methods of monitoring, analyzing and managing catastrophe exposures provide a credible risk management framework, which is integrated with our enterprise risk management, underwriting and capital management plans. However, there is much uncertainty and imprecision inherent in the catastrophe models and the catastrophe loss estimation process generally. As a result, there can be no assurance that we will not experience losses from individual events that exceed the PML or other return period projections, perhaps by a material amount. Nor can there be assurance that we will not experience events impacting multiple zones, or multiple severe events that could, in the aggregate, exceed our PML expectations by a significant amount. The table below reflects our PML exposure, net of third-party reinsurance including catastrophe industry loss warranty cover, at various return periods for our top four zones/perils (as ranked by the largest 1 in 100 year economic loss) based on loss projection data as of January 1, 2024: The projected net economic losses, defined as PML exposures, net of third-party reinsurance including catastrophe industry loss warranty cover, reinstatement premiums and estimated income taxes, for the top four zones/perils scheduled above are as follows: We believe that our greatest worldwide 1 in 100 year exposure to a single catastrophic event is to an earthquake event affecting California, where we estimate we have a PML exposure, net of third party reinsurance including catastrophe industry loss warranty cover, of $1.5 billion. If such a single catastrophe loss were to occur, management estimates that the net economic loss to us would be approximately $1.0 billion.  The estimate involves multiple variables, including which Everest entity would experience the loss, and as a result there can be no assurance that this amount would not be exceeded. We may purchase reinsurance to cover specific business written or the potential accumulation or aggregation of exposures across some or all of our operations.  Reinsurance purchasing decisions consider both the potential coverage and market conditions including the pricing, terms, conditions, availability and collectability of coverage, with the aim of securing cost effective protection from financially secure counterparts.  The amount of reinsurance purchased has varied over time, reflecting our view of our exposures and the cost of reinsurance.  In recent years, we have increased our use of reinsurance offered through capital market facilities. We participate in “common account” retrocessional arrangements for certain reinsurance treaties whereby a ceding company purchases reinsurance for the benefit of itself and its reinsurers under one or more of its reinsurance treaties. Common account retrocessional arrangements reduce the effect of individual or aggregate losses to all participating companies, including the ceding company, with respect to the involved treaties. 56 Table of Contents Information Technology. Everest’s information technology is a key component of its business operations.  Information technology systems and services are hosted at public and private cloud service providers across multiple data centers with processing performed at the office locations of our operating subsidiaries and branches.  We have implemented security procedures, and regularly assess and enhance our security protocols, to ensure that our key business systems are protected, secured and backed up at off-site locations so that they can be restored promptly if necessary.  We have business continuity plans and disaster recovery plans along with periodic testing of those plans to ensure we are capable of providing uninterrupted technology services in the event of major systems outages with alternative secure data centers available in case of broader outages. Our business operations depend on the proper functioning and availability of our information technology platform, which includes data processing and related electronic communications.  We communicate electronically internally and externally with our brokers, program managers, clients, third-party vendors, regulators, and others.  These communications and the data we handle may include personal, confidential or proprietary information.  We ensure that all our systems, data and electronic transmissions are appropriately protected with the latest technology safeguards and meet regulatory standards. Despite these safeguards, a significant cyber incident, including system failure, security breach and disruption by malware or other damage could interrupt or delay our operations and possibly our results.  This type of incident may result in a violation of applicable data security, privacy, or other laws, damage our reputation, cause a loss of customers or give rise to regulatory scrutiny as well as monetary fines and other penalties.  Management is not aware of a cybersecurity incident that has had a material impact on our operations. Expected Cash Outflows. The following table shows our significant expected cash outflows for the period indicated. (Some amounts may not reconcile due to rounding.) (1) Interest expense on long-term notes is calculated at the variable floating rate of 8.03%  as of December 31, 2023. (2) Loss and LAE reserves represent management’s best estimate of losses from claim and related settlement costs.  Both the amounts and timing of such payments are estimates, and the inherent variability of resolving claims as well as changes in market conditions make the timing of cash flows uncertain.  Therefore, the ultimate amount and timing of loss and LAE payments could differ from our estimates. The cash outflows for senior notes and long-term notes are the responsibility of Holdings.  We strive to ensure that we have sufficient cash flow, liquidity, investments and access to capital markets to satisfy these obligations.  Holdings generally depends upon dividends from Everest Re, its operating insurance subsidiary for its funding, capital contributions from Group or access to the capital markets.  Our various operating insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries have sufficient cash flow, liquidity and investments to settle outstanding reserves for losses and LAE.  Management believes that we, and each of our entities, have sufficient financial resources or ready access thereto, to meet all obligations. Dividends. During 2023 and 2022, we declared and paid common shareholder dividends of $288 million and $255 million, respectively.  As an insurance holding company, we are partially dependent on dividends and other permitted payments from our subsidiaries to pay cash dividends to our shareholders.  The payment of dividends to Group by Holdings Ireland and Everest Dublin Holdings is subject to Irish corporate and regulatory restrictions; the payment of dividends to Holdings Ireland by Holdings and to Holdings by Everest Re is subject to Delaware regulatory restrictions; and the payment of dividends to Group by Bermuda Re, Everest International, Everest Preferred International Holdings (“Preferred Holdings”), Everest Re Advisors Ltd. (“Advisors Re”) or Mt. Logan Re is subject to Bermuda insurance regulatory restrictions.  Management expects that, absent extraordinary catastrophe losses, such restrictions should not affect Everest Re’s ability to declare and pay dividends sufficient to support Holdings’ general corporate needs and that 57 Table of Contents Holdings Ireland, Everest Dublin Holdings, Bermuda Re and Everest International will have the ability to declare and pay dividends sufficient to support Group’s general corporate needs.  For the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, Everest Re paid $0 million and $250 million of cash dividends to Holdings.   For the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, Bermuda Re paid cash dividends to Group of $235 million and $430 million, respectively; Everest International paid no cash dividends to Group; Preferred Holdings paid cash dividends to Group of $48 million and $46 million, respectively; Advisors Re paid cash dividends to Group of $67 million and $0 million, respectively; and Mt. Logan Re paid cash dividends to Group of $15 million and $0 million, respectively.  See ITEM 1, “Business - Regulatory Matters - Dividends” and ITEM 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” - Note 17 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Market Sensitive Instruments. The SEC’s Financial Reporting Release #48 requires registrants to clarify and expand upon the existing financial statement disclosure requirements for derivative financial instruments, derivative commodity instruments and other financial instruments (collectively, “market sensitive instruments”).  We do not generally enter into market sensitive instruments for trading purposes. Our current investment strategy seeks to maximize after-tax income through a high quality, diversified, fixed maturity portfolio, while maintaining an adequate level of liquidity.  Our mix of investments is adjusted periodically, consistent with our current and projected operating results and market conditions.  The fixed maturity securities in the investment portfolio are comprised of non-trading securities.  Additionally, we have invested in equity securities. The overall investment strategy considers the scope of present and anticipated Company operations.  In particular, estimates of the financial impact resulting from non-investment asset and liability transactions, together with our capital structure and other factors, are used to develop a net liability analysis.  This analysis includes estimated payout characteristics for which our investments provide liquidity.  This analysis is considered in the development of specific investment strategies for asset allocation, duration and credit quality.  The change in overall market sensitive risk exposure principally reflects the asset changes that took place during the period. Interest Rate Risk. Our $37.1 billion investment portfolio at December 31, 2023, is principally comprised of fixed maturity securities, which are generally subject to interest rate risk and some foreign currency exchange rate risk, and some equity securities, which are subject to price fluctuations and some foreign exchange rate risk.  The overall economic impact of the foreign exchange risks on the investment portfolio is partially mitigated by changes in the dollar value of foreign currency denominated liabilities and their associated income statement impact. Interest rate risk is the potential change in value of the fixed maturity securities portfolio from a change in market interest rates.  In a declining interest rate environment, it includes prepayment risk on the $6.2 billion of mortgage-backed securities in the $28.6 billion fixed maturity portfolio.  Prepayment risk results from potential accelerated principal payments that shorten the average life and thus the expected yield of the security. The tables below display the potential impact of market value fluctuations and after-tax unrealized appreciation on our fixed maturity portfolio (including $2.1 billion of short-term investments) for the period indicated based on upward and downward parallel shifts of 100 and 200 basis points in interest rates.  The market value change under the various interest rate changes scenarios was estimated taking duration into account with modeling done at the individual security level. 58 Table of Contents We had $24.6 billion and $22.1 billion of gross reserves for losses and LAE as of December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively.  These amounts are recorded at their nominal value, as opposed to present value, which would reflect a discount adjustment to reflect the time value of money.  Since losses are paid out over a period of time, the present value of the reserves is less than the nominal value.  As interest rates rise, the present value of the reserves decreases and, conversely, as interest rates decline, the present value increases.  These movements are the opposite of the interest rate impacts on the fair value of investments.  While the difference between present value and nominal value is not reflected in our financial statements, our financial results will include investment income over time from the investment portfolio until the claims are paid.  Our loss and loss reserve obligations have an expected duration of approximately 3.9 years, which is reasonably consistent with our fixed income portfolio.  If we were to discount our loss and LAE reserves, net of ceded reserves, the discount would be approximately $4.3 billion resulting in a discounted reserve balance of approximately $18.3 billion, representing approximately 59.3% of the value of the fixed maturity investment portfolio funds. Foreign Currency Risk. Foreign currency risk is the potential change in value, income and cash flow arising from adverse changes in foreign currency exchange rates.  Each of our non-U.S./Bermuda operations maintains capital in the currency of the country of its geographic location consistent with local regulatory guidelines.  Each non-U.S. operation may conduct business in its local currency, as well as the currency of other countries in which it operates.  The primary foreign currency exposures for these non-U.S. operations are the Canadian Dollar, the Singapore Dollar, the British Pound Sterling and the Euro.  We mitigate foreign exchange exposure by generally matching the currency and duration of our assets to our corresponding operating liabilities.  In accordance with US GAAP guidance, the impact on the fair value of available for sale fixed maturities due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, in relation to functional currency, is reflected as part of other comprehensive income.  Conversely, the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, in relation to functional currency, on other assets and liabilities is reflected through net income as a component of other income (expense).  In addition, we translate the assets, liabilities and income of non-U.S. dollar functional currency legal entities to the U.S. dollar.  This translation amount is reported as a component of other comprehensive income. The tables below display the potential impact of a parallel and immediate 10% and 20% increase and decrease in foreign exchange rates on the valuation of invested assets subject to foreign currency exposure for the periods indicated.  This analysis includes the after-tax impact of translation from transactional currency to functional currency as well as the after-tax impact of translation from functional currency to the U.S. dollar reporting currency.