********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

In addition to factors described elsewhere in this Annual Report, the following are the material known factors, risks, and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report and elsewhere from time to time. See "Forward-Looking Statements". The risks described below should be carefully considered, some of which have manifested and any of which may occur in the future, in addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report, before making an investment decision with respect to any of the Company's securities. The following risk factors are not necessarily presented in the order of importance. In addition, there may be other factors not currently known to the Company, which could, in the future, materially adversely affect the Company, its business, financial condition, or results of operations. This and other related disclosures made by the Company in this Annual Report, and elsewhere from time to time represent management's best judgment as of the date the information is given. The Company does not undertake responsibility for updating any of such information, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as required by law. Investors are advised, however, to consult any further public Company disclosures (such as in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in Company press releases, or in other public Company presentations) on related subjects. Risks Related to Global Economy and Industry Conditions Continued uncertain conditions in the global economy, labor market, and financial markets could negatively impact the Company. The Company's business and operating results were impacted by the last global recession, and its related impacts, such as the credit market crisis, declining consumer and business confidence, fluctuating commodity prices, volatile exchange rates, and other challenges that impacted the global economy. Similarly, as a company which operates and sells products worldwide, uncertainty in the global economy, labor market, and capital markets (including impacts from inflation, higher interest rates, and subsequent changes and disruptions in business, political, and economic conditions) have impacted and may adversely impact demand for and the costs of certain Eastman products and accordingly results of operations, and may adversely impact the Company's financial condition and cash flows and ability to access the credit and capital markets under attractive rates and terms and negatively impact the Company's liquidity or ability to pursue certain growth initiatives. In addition, the Federal Reserve in the U.S. and other central banks in various countries have raised interest rates in response to concerns about inflation, which, coupled with reduced government spending and volatility in financial markets, may have the effect of further increasing economic uncertainty and heightening these risks. Interest rate increases or other government actions taken to reduce inflation could also result in recessionary pressures in many parts of the world. 21 Volatility in costs for strategic raw material and energy commodities or disruption in the supply and transportation of these commodities and in transportation of company products could adversely impact the Company's financial results. Eastman is reliant on certain strategic raw material and energy commodities for its operations and utilizes certain risk management tools to mitigate market fluctuations in raw material and energy costs. The cost and availability of these raw materials and energy commodities can be adversely impacted by factors such as business and economic conditions, anomalous severe weather events, natural disasters, global pandemics, plant interruptions, supply chain and transportation disruptions, changes in laws or regulations, levels of unemployment and inflation, currency exchange rates, higher interest rates, war or other outbreak of hostilities or terrorism (such as the ongoing Russia/Ukraine and Middle East conflicts), and breakdown or degradation of transportation and supply chain infrastructure. Inflationary pressures affecting the general economy, energy markets, and certain raw materials have increased the Company's operating costs. While the Company has undertaken efforts to offset many of these costs through various pricing actions, these risk mitigation measures do not eliminate all exposure to market fluctuations. In addition to these inflationary pressures, the Company has experienced certain supply chain challenges impacting its ability to secure certain raw materials and timely distribute products to customers. To mitigate the effects of these and other supply chain disruptions, the Company has implemented multifaceted sourcing, warehousing, and delivery strategies to focus on building resilient and redundant supply positions, and minimizing disruptions to customers by using alternate shipping methods to expedite delivery times. The Company's geographic footprint has also helped reduce exposure to localized risks. Prolonged periods of heightened inflation or supply chain disruptions could have a material, adverse impact on the Company's financial performance and results of operations. The Company's substantial global operations subject it to risks of doing business in other countries which could adversely impact its business, financial condition, and results of operations. More than half of Eastman's sales for 2023 were to customers outside of North America. The Company expects sales from international markets to continue to represent a significant portion of its sales. Also, a significant portion of the Company's manufacturing capacity is located outside of the United States. Accordingly, the Company's business is subject to risks related to the differing legal, political, cultural, social and regulatory requirements, and economic conditions of many jurisdictions. Fluctuations in exchange rates may impact product demand and may adversely impact the profitability in U.S. dollars of products and services provided in foreign countries. The U.S. and foreign countries may also adopt or increase restrictions on foreign trade or investment, including currency exchange controls, tariffs or other taxes, or limitations on imports or exports (including recent and proposed changes in U.S. trade policy and resulting retaliatory actions by other countries, including China, which have recently reduced and which may increasingly reduce demand for and increase costs of impacted products or result in U.S.-based trade counterparties limiting trade with U.S.-based companies or non-U.S. customers limiting their purchases from U.S.-based companies). Certain legal and political risks are also inherent in the operation of a company with Eastman's global scope. For example, it may be more difficult for Eastman to enforce its agreements or collect receivables through foreign legal systems. There is also a risk that foreign governments may nationalize private enterprises in certain countries where Eastman operates. Also, changes in general economic and political conditions in countries where Eastman operates are a risk to the Company's financial performance. As Eastman continues to operate its business globally, its success will depend, in part, on its ability to anticipate and effectively manage and mitigate these and other related risks. There can be no assurance that the consequences of these and other factors relating to its multinational operations will not have an adverse impact on Eastman's business, financial condition, or results of operations. Risks Related to the Company's Business and Strategy The Company's business is subject to operating risks common to chemical and specialty materials manufacturing businesses, any of which could disrupt manufacturing operations or related infrastructure and adversely impact results of operations. As a global specialty materials company, Eastman's business is subject to operating risks common to chemical manufacturing, storage, handling, and transportation, including explosions, fires, inclement weather, natural disasters, mechanical failure, unscheduled downtime, transportation and supply chain interruptions, remediation, chemical spills, and discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases. Significant limitation on the Company's ability to manufacture products due to disruption of manufacturing operations or related infrastructure could have a material adverse impact on the Company's sales revenue, costs, results of operations, credit ratings, and financial condition. Disruptions could occur due to internal factors such 22 as computer or equipment malfunction (accidental or intentional), operator error, or process failures; or external factors such as supply chain disruption, computer or equipment malfunction at third-party service providers, natural disasters, changes in laws or regulations, war or other outbreak of hostilities or terrorism, cyber-attacks, or breakdown or degradation of transportation and supply chain infrastructure used for delivery of supplies to the Company or for delivery of products to customers. Unplanned disruptions of manufacturing operations or related infrastructure could be significant in scale and could negatively impact operations, neighbors, and the environment, and could have a negative impact on the Company's results of operations. The Company is subject to operating risks related to its information technology infrastructure, including service interruptions, data corruption, cyber-based attacks or network security incidents, which could cause operations to be disrupted, product manufacturing to be delayed or data confidentiality to be impaired. Eastman depends on information technology ("IT") to enable the Company to operate safely, interface with employees, vendors and customers, and maintain its internal control environment. The Company's IT systems are maintained with a risk-based approach for the implementation of security protocols, system updates, employee training, and engagement of external experts. Eastman's risk-based approach is integrated with the Company's overall risk management strategy. Eastman's IT capabilities are delivered through a combination of internal and external services and service providers. Despite the Company's efforts to mitigate cybersecurity risk, its business may be impacted by system shutdowns, service disruptions, or cybersecurity incidents. Such an incident could result in unauthorized access or disclosure of confidential or personal information, and loss of trade secrets and intellectual property. In addition, the Company may suffer financial and reputational damage because of lost or misappropriated confidential information belonging to the Company, its current or former employees, customers, or suppliers, and may become exposed to legal action, governmental investigations, enforcement actions and regulatory fines. The Company may also be required to spend additional resources to restore systems or repair damage caused by a cybersecurity incident. These risks may also be present for the Company's joint venture partners, suppliers, or acquired businesses. The Company has been in the past, and likely will be in the future, subject to cyber-attacks related to its information systems. Although none of the previous cyber-attacks have had a material adverse impact on the Company's operations or financial results, no assurances can be provided that any future disruptions due to these, or other, circumstances will not have such an impact. See "Cybersecurity" in Part I, Item 1C of this Annual Report. Growth initiatives may not achieve desired business or financial objectives and may require significant resources in addition to or different from those available or in excess of those estimated or budgeted for such initiatives. Eastman continues to identify and pursue growth opportunities through both organic and inorganic initiatives, such as Eastman's sustainable innovation initiatives, which aim to develop a more "circular economy." These and other growth opportunities include development and commercialization or licensing of innovative new products and technologies, expansion into new markets and geographic regions through, among other means, alliances, ventures, and acquisitions that complement and extend the Company's portfolio of businesses and capabilities. Such initiatives are necessarily constrained by availability and development of additional resources. There can be no assurance that such innovation, development and commercialization or licensing efforts, investments, or acquisitions and alliances (including integration of acquired businesses) will receive necessary governmental or regulatory approvals, or result in financially successful commercialization of products, or acceptance by existing or new customers, or successful entry into new markets or otherwise achieve their underlying strategic business objectives or that they will be beneficial to the Company's results of operations. There also can be no assurance that capital projects for growth efforts can be completed within the time or at the costs projected due to, among other things, demand for and availability of construction materials and labor, obtaining regulatory approvals and operating permits, and reaching agreement on terms of key agreements and arrangements with potential suppliers and customers. Any such delays or cost overruns or the inability to obtain such approvals or to reach such agreements on acceptable terms could negatively impact the returns from any proposed or current investments and projects. The Company is the subject of various legal proceedings, and may be subject to future claims, that could have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition, and results of operations. From time to time, Eastman is involved in various legal proceedings or other commercial disputes and other legal and regulatory proceedings relating to its business. Due to the inherent uncertainties of litigation, commercial disputes, or other legal or regulatory proceedings, management cannot accurately predict their ultimate outcome, including the outcome of any related appeals. Although management establishes reserves based on the assessment of contingencies related to legal claims 23 asserted against the Company, subsequent developments may affect our assessment and estimates of the loss contingency recorded as a reserve and require payments in excess of the Company's reserves, which could have an adverse effect on Eastman's business, financial conditions, and results of operations. Although the Company maintains liability insurance coverage, potential litigation claims could be excluded, limited by self-insured retentions, or exceed coverage limits under the terms of our insurance policies. If Eastman is unable to protect its intellectual property rights, the Company's competitive position, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely impacted. Eastman relies on its intellectual property rights both in the U.S. and in foreign countries, including patents, trade secrets, trademarks, trade names, and copyrights to protect its investment in research and development and its competitive commercial positions in manufacturing and branding its products. Because of the differences in foreign trademark, patent, and other laws concerning intellectual property rights, the intellectual property rights may not receive the same degree of protection in foreign countries as they would in the U.S., which could result in inconsistent protection or loss of valuable intellectual property rights in some countries. If the Company is not successful in protecting its intellectual property rights, Eastman's business, financial condition, and results of operations may be adversely affected. Significant acquisitions or divestitures could expose the Company to risks and uncertainties, the occurrence of any of which could materially adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations. While acquisitions and divestitures have been and continue to be a part of Eastman's strategy, acquisitions of large companies and acquisitions or divestitures of businesses subject the Company to a number of risks and uncertainties, the occurrence of any of which could have a material adverse effect on Eastman. These include, but are not limited to, the possibility that the actual and projected future financial performance of the acquired or remaining business may be significantly worse than expected. In the case of an acquired business and as reported in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Estimates – Impairment of Long-Lived Assets - Goodwill" in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report, the carrying values of goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets, and certain assets from acquisitions may, as has been the case for certain acquired assets, be impaired resulting in non-cash charges to future earnings. In the case of a divested business, the divestiture could reduce Eastman's revenue and, potentially, margins and increase its costs and liabilities in the form of transition costs and retained liabilities from the operations divested, including environmental liabilities. If Eastman were to incur significant additional indebtedness, it may constrain the Company's ability to access the credit and capital markets at attractive interest rates and favorable terms, which may negatively impact the Company's liquidity or ability to pursue certain growth initiatives. The Company also may not be able to achieve the cost, revenue, tax, or other "synergies" expected from any acquisition, or that there may be delays in achieving any such synergies. In addition, management's time and effort may be dedicated to the integration of the new business or specific assets or product lines or separation of the divested business or specific assets or product lines resulting in a loss of focus on the successful operation of the Company's legacy businesses. The Company also may be required to expend significant additional resources in order to integrate any acquired business or specific assets or product lines into Eastman or separate any divested business or specific assets or product lines from Eastman. As such, the integration or separation efforts may not achieve the expected benefits. The Company may be subject to indemnity claims relating to properties or businesses it has divested. In connection with the sale of certain properties and businesses, Eastman has agreed to indemnify the purchasers of such properties for certain types of matters, including unknown contingent liabilities for environmental matters or tax liabilities. With respect to environmental matters, the discovery of contamination arising from properties that the Company has divested may expose it to indemnity obligations under the sale agreements with the buyers of such properties or cleanup obligations and other damages under applicable environmental laws. Eastman may not have insurance coverage for such indemnity obligations or cash flows to make such indemnity or other payments. Certain agreements by which the Company has acquired companies require the former owners to indemnify Eastman against certain liabilities related to the operation of those companies prior to Eastman's acquisition. Similarly, the purchasers of the Company's disposed operations may, from time to time, agree to indemnify it for operations of such businesses after the closing. There can be no assurance that the indemnity agreements will be sufficient to protect Eastman against the full amount of any liabilities that may arise, or that the indemnitors will be able to fully satisfy their indemnification obligations. The failure to receive amounts for which Eastman is entitled to indemnification could adversely affect Eastman's financial condition and results of operations. 24 Failure to attract and retain talented personnel could adversely affect the Company's ability to compete and achieve its strategic objectives. Eastman's future success in achieving its performance and growth goals depends on its ability to attract, retain, develop and motivate highly skilled personnel. The Company has experienced, and continues to experience, an increasingly competitive hiring environment for skilled employees at its manufacturing and other sites, which has generally increased the cost of hiring or retaining talented employees essential to its success. In addition, effective succession planning is paramount to its long-term success. It is critical that Eastman identifies and develops succession candidates for senior management and other key positions throughout the organization. Failure to timely identify and develop succession candidates heightens the risk associated with the unexpected departure of key employees. Eastman's inability to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and transitions involving key employees could adversely impact its strategic planning and execution, which could adversely affect Eastman's business, financial condition, and results of operations. Risks Related to Regulatory Changes and Compliance Legislative, regulatory, or voluntary actions could increase the Company's future health, safety, and environmental compliance costs. Eastman, its facilities, and its businesses are subject to complex health, safety, and environmental laws, regulations, and related voluntary actions, both in the U.S. and internationally, which require and will continue to require significant expenditures to remain in compliance with such laws, regulations, and voluntary actions. The Company's manufacturing activities, both inside and outside of the U.S., are subject to regulation by various federal, state, local and foreign laws, regulations, rules and government agencies concerning, among other things, air emissions, discharges to land and water, and the generation, handling, treatment, and disposal of hazardous waste and other materials. Actual or alleged violations of environmental, health or safety laws and regulations could result in restrictions or prohibitions on manufacturing operations as well as substantial damages, penalties, fines, civil or criminal sanctions and remediation costs. Eastman has incurred, and will continue to incur, significant costs and capital expenditures to comply with these laws and regulations, which may adversely impact its business and financial results. Future developments and more stringent environmental regulations may require the Company to make significant expenditures for environmental protection equipment, compliance, and remediation. The Company's accruals for such costs and associated liabilities are subject to changes in estimates on which the accruals are based. For example, any amount accrued for environmental matters reflects the Company's assumptions about remediation requirements at the contaminated site, the nature of the remedy, the outcome of discussions with regulatory agencies and other potentially responsible parties at multi-party sites, and the number of and financial viability of other potentially responsible parties. Changes in the estimates on which the accruals are based, unanticipated government enforcement action, or changes in health, safety, environmental, chemical control regulations and actions, and testing requirements could result in higher costs. Financial, regulatory, physical and transition risks associated with climate change could materially adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations. Extreme weather events linked to climate change, including hurricanes and other storms, flooding, extreme heat and drought, create physical risks to Eastman's manufacturing operations, as well as those of its key suppliers, which could result in operating disruptions and additional costs. While the Company's sustainability and "circular economy" innovation initiatives are sources of competitive strength (see "Business - Corporate Overview - Business Strategy - Circular Economy and Sustainability" in Part I, Item 1 of this Annual Report), future changes in legislation and regulation and related voluntary actions associated with physical impacts of climate change may increase the likelihood that the Company's manufacturing facilities will in the future be impacted by carbon requirements, regulation of greenhouse gas emissions, and energy policy. In addition, such changes may require additional capital expenditures, increase costs or limit the supply of raw materials and energy choices, and result in other direct and indirect compliance or other costs. Such changes could also result in decreased demand for products related to carbon-based energy sources or increased demand for goods that result in lower emissions than competing products. See "Business - Eastman Chemical Company General Information - Compliance with Environmental and Other Government Regulations" in Part I, Item 1 of this Annual Report. 25 Changes in tax laws, regulations or treaties or adverse determinations by taxing or other governmental authorities could increase the Company's tax liabilities or otherwise affect its business, financial condition or results of operations. The multinational nature of Eastman's business subjects it to taxation in the United States and other foreign jurisdictions. Changes to income tax laws and regulations or in the interpretation of such laws in any of the jurisdictions in which it operates, or the unfavorable resolution of tax matters could significantly increase the Company's effective tax rate and adversely impact its financial condition or results of operations. Eastman could also be affected by, among other things, changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, expirations of tax holidays, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, and changes in liabilities for uncertain tax positions. In addition, the U.S. and foreign countries may impose additional taxes or otherwise tax Eastman's income. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Estimates - Income Taxes" in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report. For example, the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development ("OECD") has introduced a framework to implement a global minimum tax. Several jurisdictions in which Eastman operates have enacted laws effective January 1, 2024, consistent with the OECD's framework. While details around the global minimum tax in each jurisdiction are uncertain, the Company may experience an increase in tax obligations in jurisdictions it conducts business. The Company's insurance may not fully cover all potential exposures. Eastman maintains property, casualty, business interruption, and other insurance, but coverage limits may not be sufficient to cover all risks associated with the hazards of its business. As a result of market conditions, premiums and deductibles for certain insurance policies can increase substantially and, in some instances, certain insurance policies may become unavailable or available only for reduced amounts of coverage. In addition, from time to time, various types of insurance for specialty chemical companies have not been available on commercially acceptable terms or, in some cases, have not been available at all. For some risks, the Company may elect not to obtain insurance but instead self-insure. Losses and liabilities from uninsured or underinsured events and delay in the payment of insurance proceeds could have a material adverse effect on Eastman's business, financial condition, and results of operations.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

This Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A") is based upon the consolidated financial statements of Eastman Chemical Company ("Eastman" or the "Company"), which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP"), and should be read in conjunction with the Company's consolidated financial statements and related notes, included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (this "Annual Report"). All references to earnings per share ("EPS") contained in this report are to diluted EPS unless otherwise noted. EBIT is the GAAP measure earnings before interest and taxes. For a discussion of the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to the year ended December 31, 2021, please read "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Part II, Item 7 of Eastman's for the year ended December 31, 2022. 34 MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES In preparing the consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP, management must make decisions which impact the reported amounts and the related disclosures. Such decisions include the selection of the appropriate accounting principles to be applied and assumptions on which to base estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, sales revenue and expenses, fair value of disposal groups, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, Eastman evaluates its estimates, including those related to impairment of long-lived assets, environmental costs, pension and other postretirement benefits, and income taxes. The Company bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Management believes the critical accounting estimates described below are the most important to the fair presentation of the Company's financial condition and results. These estimates require management's most significant judgments in the preparation of the Company's consolidated financial statements. Impairment of Long-Lived Assets Definite-lived Assets Properties and equipment and definite-lived intangible assets to be held and used by Eastman are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. The review of properties and equipment and the review of definite-lived intangible assets is performed at the asset group level, which is the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities. If the carrying amount is not considered to be recoverable, an analysis of potential impairment is triggered. An impairment is recognized for the excess of the carrying amount of the asset over the estimated fair value. The Company's assumptions to estimate cash flows in the evaluation of impairment related to long-lived assets are subject to change and impairments may be required in the future. If estimates of fair value less costs to sell are decreased, the carrying amount of the related asset is reduced, resulting in a charge to earnings. Goodwill Goodwill is an asset determined as the residual of the purchase price over the fair value of identified assets and liabilities acquired in a business combination. Eastman conducts testing of goodwill for impairment annually in the fourth quarter or more frequently when events and circumstances indicate an impairment may have occurred. The testing of goodwill is performed at the "reporting unit" level which the Company has determined to be its "components". Components are defined as an operating segment or one level below an operating segment, and in order to be a reporting unit, the component must 1) be a "business" as defined by applicable accounting standards (an integrated set of activities and assets that is capable of being conducted and managed for the purpose of providing a return in the form of dividends, lower costs, or other economic benefits directly to the investors or other owners, members, or participants); 2) have discrete financial information available; and 3) be reviewed regularly by Company operating segment management. The Company aggregates certain components into reporting units based on economic similarities. An impairment is recognized when the reporting unit's estimated fair value is less than its carrying value. The Company elected to perform a qualitative impairment assessment of goodwill in 2023. The qualitative assessment identified three reporting units where a quantitative assessment was needed to confirm that goodwill was not impaired. For those reporting units, the Company used an income approach, specifically a discounted cash flow model, in testing the carrying value of goodwill for each reporting unit for impairment. Key assumptions and estimates used in the Company's 2023 goodwill impairment testing included projections of revenues and EBIT determined using the Company's annual multi-year strategic plan, the estimated weighted average cost of capital ("WACC"), and a projected long-term growth rate. The Company believes these assumptions are consistent with those a hypothetical market participant would use given circumstances that were present at the time the estimates were made. However, actual results and amounts may be significantly different from the Company's estimates. In addition, the use of different estimates or assumptions could result in materially different estimated fair values of reporting units. The WACC is calculated incorporating weighted average returns on debt and equity from market participants. Therefore, changes in the market, which are beyond the control of the Company, may have an impact on future estimates of fair value. 35 MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The Company had $3.6 billion of goodwill as of December 31, 2023. As a result of the goodwill impairment testing performed during fourth quarter 2023, fair values were determined to exceed the carrying values for each reporting unit tested. Declines in market conditions or forecasted revenue and EBIT could result in a future impairment of goodwill. Indefinite-lived Intangible Assets Indefinite-lived intangible assets, consisting primarily of tradenames, are tested for potential impairment by comparing the estimated fair value to the carrying amount. The Company elected to perform a qualitative impairment assessment of indefinite-lived intangible assets in 2023. The qualitative assessment did not identify indicators of impairment, and it was determined that it is more likely than not the fair value of indefinite-lived intangible assets was greater than their carrying value. When a quantitative impairment assessment is performed, the Company uses an income approach, specifically the relief from royalty method, to test indefinite-lived intangible assets for potential impairment. The estimated fair value of tradenames is determined based on projections of revenue and an assumed royalty rate savings, discounted by the calculated market participant WACC plus a risk premium. The Company had $357 million in indefinite-lived intangible assets at December 31, 2023. There was no impairment of the Company's indefinite-lived intangible assets as a result of the tests performed during fourth quarter 2023. Declines in market conditions or forecasted revenue could result in impairment of indefinite-lived intangible assets. The Company will continue to monitor both goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for any indication of events which might require additional testing before the next annual impairment test and could result in material impairment charges. For additional information related to impairment of long-lived assets, see Note 1, "Significant Accounting Policies", Note 4, "Properties and Accumulated Depreciation", Note 5, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets", and Note 16, "Asset Impairments and Restructuring Charges, Net", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report. Environmental Costs Eastman recognizes environmental remediation costs when it is probable that the Company has incurred a liability at a contaminated site and the amount can be reasonably estimated. When a single amount cannot be reasonably estimated but the cost can be estimated within a range, the Company recognizes the minimum undiscounted amount. This undiscounted amount reflects liabilities expected to be paid within approximately 30 years and the Company's assumptions about remediation requirements at the contaminated site, the nature of the remedy, the outcome of discussions with regulatory agencies and other potentially responsible parties at multi-party sites, and the number and financial viability of other potentially responsible parties. Changes in the estimates on which the accruals are based, unanticipated government enforcement action, or changes in health, safety, environmental, and chemical control regulations and testing requirements could result in higher or lower costs. Estimated future environmental expenditures for undiscounted remediation costs ranged from the best estimate or minimum of $252 million to the maximum of $497 million at December 31, 2023. The best estimate or minimum estimated future environmental expenditures are considered to be probable and reasonably estimable and include the amounts recognized at December 31, 2023. For additional information, see Note 13, "Environmental Matters and Asset Retirement Obligations", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report. Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits Eastman maintains defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans that provide eligible employees with retirement benefits. The estimated amounts of the costs and obligations related to these benefits primarily reflect the Company's assumptions related to discount rates and expected return on plan assets. For the Company's U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans, the Company assumed weighted average discount rates of 5.22 percent and 3.83 percent, respectively, and weighted average expected returns on plan assets of 7.50 percent and 4.74 percent, respectively, at December 31, 2023. The Company assumed a weighted average discount rate of 5.21 percent for its other postretirement benefit plans at December 31, 2023. The estimated cost of providing plan benefits also depends on demographic assumptions including retirements, mortality, turnover, and plan participation. 36 MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The projected benefit obligation as of December 31, 2023 and expense for 2024 are affected by year-end 2023 assumptions. The following table illustrates the sensitivity to changes in the Company's long-term assumptions in the assumed discount rate and expected return on plan assets for all pension and other postretirement benefit plans. The sensitivities below are specific to the time periods noted. They also may not be additive, so the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities shown. The assumed discount rate and expected return on plan assets used to calculate the Company's pension and other postretirement benefit obligations are established each December 31. The assumed discount rate is based upon a portfolio of high-grade corporate bonds, which are used to develop a yield curve. This yield curve is applied to the expected cash flows of the pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. Because future health care benefits under the U.S. benefit plan have been fixed at a certain contribution amount, changes in the health care cost trend assumptions do not have a material impact on results of operations. The expected return on plan assets is based upon prior performance and the long-term expected returns in the markets in which the plans invest their funds, primarily in U.S. and non-U.S. fixed income securities, U.S. and non-U.S. public equity securities, private equity, and real estate. Moreover, the expected return on plan assets is a long-term assumption and on average is expected to approximate the actual return on plan assets. Actual returns will be subject to year-to-year variances and could vary materially from assumptions. The Company calculates service and interest cost components of net periodic benefit costs for its significant defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans by applying the specific spot rates along the yield curve to the plans' projected cash flows. This cost approach does not affect the measurement of the total benefit obligation or the annual net periodic benefit cost or credit of the plans because the change in the service and interest costs will be offset in the mark-to-market ("MTM") actuarial gain or loss. The MTM gain or loss, as described in the next paragraph, is typically recognized in the fourth quarter of each year or in any other quarters in which an interim remeasurement is triggered. The Company uses fair value accounting for plan assets. If actual experience differs from actuarial assumptions, primarily discount rates and long-term assumptions for asset returns which were used in determining the current year expense, the difference is recognized as part of the MTM net gain or loss in fourth quarter each year, and any other quarter in which an interim remeasurement is triggered. See the calculation of the MTM pension and other post-retirement benefits (gain) loss table below in "NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES - Non-GAAP Financial Measures - Non-Core and Unusual Items Excluded from Earnings". 37 MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS While changes in obligations do not correspond directly to cash funding requirements, it is an indication of the amount the Company will be required to contribute to the plans in future years. The amount and timing of such cash contributions is dependent upon interest rates, actual returns on plan assets, retirements, attrition rates of employees, and other factors. For further information regarding pension and other postretirement benefit obligations, see Note 11, "Retirement Plans", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report. Income Taxes Amounts of deferred tax assets and liabilities on Eastman's Consolidated Statements of Financial Position are based on temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, applying enacted tax rates expected to be in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. The ability to realize deferred tax assets is evaluated through the forecasting of taxable income, using historical and projected future operating results, the reversal of existing temporary differences, and the availability of tax planning opportunities. Valuation allowances are recognized to reduce deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will not be realized. In the event that the actual outcome of future tax consequences differs from management estimates and assumptions, the resulting change to the provision for income taxes could have a material impact on the consolidated results of operations and statements of financial position. As of December 31, 2023, valuation allowances of $183 million have been provided against the deferred tax assets. The calculation of income tax liabilities involves uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws and regulations, which are subject to legal interpretation and management judgment. Eastman's income tax returns are regularly examined by federal, state and foreign tax authorities, and those audits may result in proposed adjustments which could result in additional income tax liabilities and income tax expense. Income tax expense could be materially impacted to the extent the Company prevails in a tax position, when the statute of limitations expires for a tax position for which there is an established liability for unrecognized tax benefits, or to the extent payments are required in excess of the established liability for unrecognized tax benefits. For further information, see Note 8, "Income Taxes", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report. NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES Non-GAAP financial measures, and the accompanying reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most comparable GAAP measures, are presented below in this section and in "Overview", "Results of Operations", "Summary by Operating Segment", and "Liquidity and Other Financial Information - Cash Flows" in this MD&A. Management discloses non-GAAP financial measures, and the related reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP financial measures, because it believes investors use these metrics in evaluating longer term period-over-period performance, and to allow investors to better understand and evaluate the information used by management to assess the Company's and its operating segments' performances, make resource allocation decisions, and evaluate organizational and individual performances in determining certain performance-based compensation. Non-GAAP financial measures do not have definitions under GAAP, and may be defined differently by, and not be comparable to, similarly titled measures used by other companies. As a result, management cautions investors not to place undue reliance on any non-GAAP financial measure, but to consider such measures alongside the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. 38 MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Company Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures Non-Core Items and any Unusual or Non-Recurring Items Excluded from Non-GAAP Earnings In addition to evaluating Eastman's financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows as reported in accordance with GAAP, management evaluates Company and operating segment performance, and makes resource allocation and performance evaluation decisions, excluding the effect of transactions, costs, and losses or gains that do not directly result from Eastman's normal, or "core", business and operations, or are otherwise of an unusual or non-recurring nature. • Non-core transactions, costs, and losses or gains relate to, among other things, cost reductions, growth and profitability improvement initiatives, changes in businesses and assets, and other events outside of core business operations, and have included asset impairments and restructuring charges and gains, costs of and related to acquisitions, gains and losses from and costs related to dispositions, closure, or shutdowns of businesses or assets, financing transaction costs, environmental costs related to previously divested businesses or non-operational sites and product lines, and mark-to-market losses or gains for pension and other postretirement benefit plans. • In 2023, the Company recognized unusual insurance proceeds, net of costs, and in 2022, the Company recognized unusual costs, net of insurance proceeds, from the previously reported January 31, 2022 operational incident at its Kingsport site as a result of a steam line failure (the "steam line incident"). Management considered the operational incident unusual because of the Company's operational and safety history and the magnitude of the unplanned disruption. Because non-core, unusual, or non-recurring transactions, costs, and losses or gains may materially affect the Company's, or any particular operating segment's, financial condition or results in a specific period in which they are recognized, management believes it is appropriate to evaluate the financial measures prepared and calculated in accordance with both GAAP and the related non-GAAP financial measures excluding the effect on the Company's results of these non-core, unusual, or non-recurring items. In addition to using such measures to evaluate results in a specific period, management evaluates such non-GAAP measures, and believes that investors may also evaluate such measures, because such measures may provide more complete and consistent comparisons of the Company's, and its segments', operational performance on a period-over-period historical basis and, as a result, provide a better indication of expected future trends. Non-GAAP Debt Measure Eastman from time to time evaluates and discloses to investors and securities and credit analysts the non-GAAP debt measure "net debt", which management defines as total borrowings less cash and cash equivalents. Management believes this metric is useful to investors and securities and credit analysts to provide them with information similar to that used by management in evaluating the Company's overall financial position, liquidity, and leverage and because management believes investors, securities analysts, credit analysts and rating agencies, and lenders often use a similar measure to assess and compare companies' relative financial position and liquidity. Non-GAAP Measures in this Annual Report The following non-core items are excluded by management in its evaluation of certain earnings results in this Annual Report: • Asset impairments and restructuring charges, net; • Mark-to-market pension and other postretirement benefit plans gains and losses resulting from the changes in discount rates and other actuarial assumptions and the difference between actual and expected returns on plan assets during the period; • Environmental and other costs from previously divested or non-operational sites and product lines; • Gains and losses, net on divested businesses and transaction costs; • Adjustments to contingent considerations; and • Accelerated depreciation resulting from the closure of a manufacturing facility. The following unusual item is excluded by management in its evaluation of certain earnings results in this Annual Report: • Steam line incident (insurance proceeds) costs, net. 39 MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS As described above, the alternative non-GAAP measure of debt, "net debt", is also presented in this Annual Report. Non-GAAP Financial Measures - Non-Core and Unusual Items Excluded from Earnings Below is the calculation of the "Other components of post-employment (benefit) cost, net" that are not included in the above non-core item "mark-to-market pension and other postretirement benefits loss (gain), net" and that are included in the non-GAAP results. Below is the calculation of the MTM pension and other post-retirement benefits (gain) loss disclosed above. (1) Actuarial (loss) gain resulted primarily from the change in discount rates from the prior year and changes in other actuarial assumptions. (2) Curtailment gain in a Non U.S. pension plan was triggered by the sale of the adhesives resins business. The Company retained certain plan participants while the status of the participants changed. The curtailment includes $3 million reduction in the pension benefit obligation and $4 million of prior service credits recognized. 40 MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS For more detail about MTM pension and other postretirement benefit plans net gains and losses, including actual and expected return on plan assets and the components of the net gain or loss, see "Critical Accounting Estimates - Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits" above, and Note 11, "Retirement Plans", "Summary of Changes - Actuarial (gain) loss, Actual return on plan assets, and Reserve for third party contributions", and "Summary of Benefit Costs and Other Amounts Recognized in Other Comprehensive Income - Mark-to-market pension and other postretirement benefits (gain) loss, net" to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report. This MD&A includes the effect of the foregoing on the following GAAP financial measures: • Gross profit, • Selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") expenses, • Other components of post-employment (benefit) cost, net, • Other (income) charges, net, • EBIT, • Provision for income taxes, • Net earnings attributable to Eastman, • Diluted EPS, and • Total borrowings. Other Non-GAAP Financial Measures Adjusted Tax Rate and Provision for Income Taxes In interim periods, Eastman discloses non-GAAP earnings with an adjusted effective tax rate and a resulting adjusted provision for income taxes using the Company's forecasted tax rate for the full year as of the end of the interim period. The adjusted effective tax rate and resulting adjusted provision for income taxes are equal to the Company's projected full year effective tax rate and provision for income taxes on earnings excluding non-core, unusual, or non-recurring items for completed periods. The adjusted effective tax rate and resulting adjusted provision for income taxes may fluctuate during the year for changes in events and circumstances that change the Company's forecasted annual effective tax rate and resulting provision for income taxes excluding non-core, unusual, or non-recurring items. Management discloses this adjusted effective tax rate, and the related reconciliation to the GAAP effective tax rate, to provide investors more consistent comparisons of the Company's operational performance on a period-over-period interim basis and on the same basis as management evaluates quarterly financial results to provide a better indication of expected full year results. Alternative Non-GAAP Cash Flow Measures In addition to the non-GAAP measures presented in this Annual Report and other periodic reports, management may occasionally evaluate and disclose to investors and securities analysts the non-GAAP measure cash provided by or used in operating activities excluding certain non-core, unusual, or non-recurring sources or uses of cash or including cash from or used by activities that are managed as part of core business operations ("adjusted cash provided by or used in operating activities") when analyzing, among other things, business performance, liquidity and financial position, and performance-based compensation. Management has used this non-GAAP measure in conjunction with the GAAP measure cash provided by or used in operating activities because it believes it is an appropriate metric to evaluate the cash flows from Eastman's core operations that are available for organic and inorganic growth initiatives and because it allows for a more consistent period-over-period presentation of such amounts. In its evaluation, management generally excludes the impact of certain non-core and unusual activities and decisions of management that it considers not core, ongoing components of operations and the decisions to undertake or not to undertake such activities may be made irrespective of the cash generated from operations, and generally includes cash from or used in activities that are managed as operating activities and in business operating decisions. Management has disclosed this non-GAAP measure and the related reconciliation to investors, securities analysts, credit analysts and rating agencies, and lenders to allow them to better understand and evaluate the information used by management in its decision-making processes and because management believes investors and securities analysts use similar measures to assess Company performance, liquidity, and financial position over multiple periods and to compare these with other companies. 41 MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS From time to time, Eastman may evaluate and disclose to investors and securities analysts an alternative non-GAAP measure of "free cash flow", which management defines as net cash provided by or used in operating activities less the amount of net capital expenditures (typically the GAAP measure additions to properties and equipment). In addition, Eastman may disclose to investors and securities analysts an alternative non-GAAP measure of "free cash flow yield", which management defines as annual free cash flow divided by the Company's market capitalization, and "free cash flow conversion", which management defines as annual free cash flow divided by adjusted net income. Management believes these metrics can be useful to investors and securities analysts in comparing cash flow generation with that of peer and other companies. Alternative Non-GAAP Earnings Measures From time to time, Eastman may also disclose to investors and securities analysts the non-GAAP earnings measures "Adjusted EBIT Margin", "Adjusted EBITDA", "Adjusted EBITDA Margin", "Return on Invested Capital" (or "ROIC"), and "Adjusted ROIC". Management defines Adjusted EBIT Margin as the GAAP measure EBIT adjusted to exclude the same non-core, unusual, or non-recurring items as are excluded from the Company's other non-GAAP earnings measures for the same periods divided by the GAAP measure sales revenue in the Company's Consolidated Statement of Earnings, Comprehensive Income and Retained Earnings for the same periods. Adjusted EBITDA is EBITDA (net earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) adjusted to exclude the same non-core, unusual, or non-recurring items as are excluded from the Company's other non-GAAP earnings measures for the same periods. Adjusted EBITDA Margin is Adjusted EBITDA divided by the GAAP measure sales revenue in the Company's Consolidated Statement of Earnings, Comprehensive Income and Retained Earnings for the same periods. Management defines ROIC as net earnings plus interest expense after tax divided by average total borrowings plus average stockholders' equity for the periods presented, each derived from the GAAP measures in the Company's financial statements for the periods presented. Adjusted ROIC is ROIC adjusted to exclude from net earnings the same non-core, unusual, or non-recurring items as are excluded from the Company's other non-GAAP earnings measures for the same periods. Management believes that Adjusted EBIT Margin, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA Margin, ROIC, and Adjusted ROIC are useful as supplemental measures in evaluating the performance of and returns from Eastman's operating businesses, and from time to time uses such measures in internal performance calculations. Further, management understands that investors and securities analysts often use similar measures of Adjusted EBIT Margin, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA Margin, ROIC, and Adjusted ROIC to compare the results, returns, and value of the Company with those of peer and other companies. 42 MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OVERVIEW Eastman's products and operations are managed and reported in four operating segments: Advanced Materials ("AM"), Additives & Functional Products ("AFP"), Chemical Intermediates ("CI"), and Fibers. Eastman uses an innovation-driven growth model which consists of leveraging world class scalable technology platforms, delivering differentiated application development capabilities, and relentlessly engaging the market. The Company's world class technology platforms form the foundation of sustainable growth by differentiated products through significant scale advantages in research and development ("R&D") and advantaged global market access. Molecular recycling technologies continue to be an area of investment focus for the Company and extends the level of differentiation afforded by its world class technology platforms. Differentiated application development converts market complexity into opportunities for growth and accelerates innovation by enabling a deeper understanding of the value of Eastman's products and how they perform within customers' and end-user products. Key areas of application development include thermoplastic conversion, functional films, coatings formulations, textiles and nonwovens, and personal and home care formulations. The Company engages the market by working directly with customers and downstream users, targeting attractive niche markets, and leveraging disruptive macro trends. Management believes that these elements of the Company's innovation-driven growth model, combined with disciplined portfolio management and balanced capital deployment, will result in consistent, sustainable earnings growth and strong cash flow from operations. Sales, EBIT, and EBIT excluding non-core and unusual items were as follows: Sales revenue in 2023 compared to 2022 decreased primarily due to lower sales volume. Lower sales volume was primarily attributed to deceleration of demand and customer destocking across many key end-markets, partially offset by increased sales volume of premium products in the automotive end-market. Adjusted EBIT decreased in 2023 compared to 2022 primarily due to lower sales volume and higher manufacturing costs, attributed to lower capacity utilization resulting from actions to reduce inventory, higher pension expense, higher SG&A costs, primarily due to variable compensation costs, continued investment in the circular platform, and an unfavorable shift in foreign currency exchanges rates. These factors were partially offset by lower raw material and energy costs and distribution costs, net of lower selling prices. On December 1, 2023, the Company completed the sale of its Texas City operations, which was reported in the CI segment ("Texas City Operations"). The sale excluded the plasticizer operations. On April 1, 2022, the Company completed the sale of the adhesives resins business, which included hydrocarbon resins (including Eastman Impera™ tire resins), pure monomer resins, polyolefin polymers, rosins and dispersions, and oleochemical and fatty-acid based resins product lines, of its AFP segment ("adhesives resins"). On January 31, 2022, the Company had an incident at its Kingsport site as a result of a steam line failure (the "steam line incident"). Consistent with Eastman's safety processes, all manufacturing operations at the site were safely shut down following the incident. All impacted areas of the manufacturing facility were operational as of March 31, 2022. The primary impacted area was specialty copolyesters in the AM segment. The Fibers segment was also modestly impacted. Insurance proceeds of $8 million for 2023, and incremental costs, net of insurance proceeds, of $39 million for 2022, primarily related to the repair of damaged infrastructure, were excluded from the Company's adjusted EBIT. For additional information on the sales of certain businesses and operations, see Note 2, "Divestitures", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report. Discussion of sales revenue and EBIT changes is presented in "Results of Operations" and "Summary by Operating Segment" in this MD&A. 43 MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Net earnings and EPS and adjusted net earnings and EPS were as follows: The Company generated $1.4 billion and $1.0 billion of cash from operating activities in 2023 and 2022, respectively. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Eastman's results of operations as presented in the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report are summarized and analyzed below. Sales Sales revenue decreased as a result of decreases in the CI, AFP, and AM segments, partially offset by an increase in the Fibers segment. Further discussion by operating segments is presented in "Summary of Operating Segment" in this MD&A. Gross Profit Gross profit in 2023 included insurance proceeds and in 2022 included incremental costs, net of insurance proceeds, both from the steam line incident, and 2023 included accelerated depreciation resulting from the previously reported closure of an acetate yarn manufacturing facility in Europe in the Fibers segment. Excluding these non-core and unusual items, gross profit decreased as a result of decreases in the CI, AFP, and AM segments, partially offset by an increase in the Fibers segment. Further discussion of sales revenue and EBIT changes is presented in "Summary by Operating Segment" in this MD&A. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses SG&A expenses in 2022 included transaction costs for divested businesses. Excluding this non-core item, SG&A expense increased in 2023 compared to 2022 primarily as a result of higher variable compensation costs, partially offset by lower spend during 2023 of approximately 7 percent primarily due to cost reduction initiatives. 44 MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Research and Development Expenses R&D expenses decreased in 2023 compared to 2022 primarily due to targeted cost reduction initiatives and increased focus on strategic growth programs. Asset Impairments and Restructuring Charges, Net For detailed information regarding asset impairments and restructuring charges, net see Note 16, "Asset Impairments and Restructuring Charges, Net", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report. Other Components of Post-employment (Benefit) Cost, Net For more information regarding "Other components of post-employment (benefit) cost, net" see Note 1, "Significant Accounting Policies", and Note 11, "Retirement Plans", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report. Other (Income) Charges, Net Other (income) charges, net in 2023 and 2022 included environmental and other costs related to previously divested businesses or non-operational sites and product lines, and 2022 included adjustments to contingent considerations. Excluding these non-core items, Other (income) charges, net increased in 2023 compared to 2022 primarily due to higher factoring fees and the absence of income from transition service agreements that ended in 2022 related to divestitures. For more information regarding components of foreign exchange transaction losses, see Note 10, "Derivative and Non-Derivative Financial Instruments", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report. 45 MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Earnings Before Interest and Taxes For more information regarding items that impact EBIT, see "Overview", and items described above in "Results of Operations". Net Interest Expense Net interest expense increased in 2023 compared to 2022 primarily as a result of higher interest rates. Provision for Income Taxes (1) Provision for income taxes for non-core and unusual items is calculated using the tax rate for the jurisdiction where the gains are taxable and the expenses are deductible. The 2023 provision for income taxes includes an increase related to uncertain tax positions, a decrease related to general business credits, and a decrease related to the foreign rate variance due to the Company's mix of earnings. The 2022 provision for income taxes includes decreases related to general business credits and the release of a state valuation allowance, offset by the impacts of the business divestitures. For more information, see Note 8, "Income Taxes", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report. 46 MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Net Earnings Attributable to Eastman and Diluted Earnings per Share (1) The provision for income taxes for non-core and unusual items is calculated using the tax rate for the jurisdiction where the gains are taxable and the expenses are deductible. SUMMARY BY OPERATING SEGMENT Eastman's products and operations are managed and reported in four operating segments: Advanced Materials ("AM"), Additives & Functional Products ("AFP"), Chemical Intermediates ("CI"), and Fibers. For additional financial and product information for each operating segment, see "Business - Business Segments" in Part I, Item 1 of this Annual Report and Note 20, "Segment and Regional Sales Information", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report. In 2023, the Company moved the functional amines product line from the CI segment into the AFP segment. In addition, certain organic acid products and olefin-based products moved from the AFP segment to the CI segment. These product moves are expected to increase efficiency of the Company's assets and commercial teams, and to increase portfolio transparency. To maintain comparability of segment financial statement information, the Company has recast the segment financial information for the AFP and the CI segments for each quarter from first quarter 2019 through fourth quarter 2022. The information presented below is the recast information for all periods presented. For more information, refer to the dated April 27, 2023. 47 MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Sales revenue decreased in 2023 compared to 2022 primarily due to lower sales volume partially offset by higher selling prices. Lower sales volume is primarily attributed to weak demand and significant customer destocking across key end-markets in the specialty plastics product lines, partially offset by increased sales volume of premium products in the automotive end-market for advanced interlayers product line. Lower sales volume was partially offset by higher selling prices, primarily in the advanced interlayers product line. EBIT in 2022 included asset impairments and restructuring charges as result of the closure of a North American manufacturing facility. For more information regarding asset impairments and restructuring charges, see Note 16, "Asset Impairments and Restructuring Charges, Net", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report. Excluding this non-core item, EBIT decreased primarily due to $228 million of lower sales volume and higher manufacturing costs, primarily due to lower capacity utilization. These costs were partially offset by $172 million of lower raw material and energy costs and distribution costs, and higher selling prices. Initiatives In 2023, the AM segment: • achieved key milestones for planned molecular recycling facilities (see "Corporate Overview - Business Strategy - Sustainability and Circular Economy - Circularity" in Part I, Item 1 of this Annual Report); • continued adoption of polyester renewal technology for products, including Tritan ™ Renew, Cristal ™ Renew, and Cristal ™ One Renew across several end-markets, including cosmetic packaging, eyewear and power tools; • continued to expand portfolio of differentiated post-applied window films and protective films for automotive and architectural applications; • launched Saflex ™ Horizon LVID, a next generation PVB interlayer that enhances the driving experience while enhancing road safety in automotive original equipment manufacturers ("OEM"); and • completed the acquisition of Ai-Red Technology (Dalian) Co., Ltd., a manufacturer and supplier of paint protection and window film for the auto market in the Asia Pacific region for approximately $75 million, net of cash acquired, which is expected to enhance continued global growth of the AM segment performance films product line. Sales revenue decreased in 2023 compared to 2022 primarily due to lower sales volume and lower selling prices. Lower sales volume was primarily attributed to deceleration of demand and customer destocking in several key end-markets, including building and construction and agriculture. Lower selling prices were primarily attributable to cost pass-through contracts. EBIT decreased in 2023 compared to 2022 primarily due to $207 million lower sales volume and higher manufacturing costs, primarily due to lower capacity utilization. These costs were partially offset by $106 million lower raw material and energy costs and distribution costs, net of lower selling prices. 48 MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Initiatives In 2023, the AFP segment: • invested in additional capabilities of Eastapure ™ electronic solvents for use in manufacturing of semiconductor chips and other electronic applications with extremely low organic and inorganic impurities; • received customer approval for Tetrashield ™ resins in industrial powder coating applications providing ultradurable, long weathering alternatives to traditional fluoropolymers that are specifically designed to meet the demanding requirements of building and construction, as well as other high-performance outdoor applications; • developed cellulosic microbeads which offer a higher performance, biodegradable alternative to traditional microplastic alternatives and are engaging alpha-customers in the personal care end-market; • received prestigious Green Seal verification of coalescents Optifilm ™ for use in products that are safer for human and environmental health, in line with Eastman's continued commitment to environmentally friendly products; and • received Process Heating & Cooling Innovation and Artificial Intelligence Excellence awards for Fluid Genius ™ , an advanced software that equips end users with predictive insights to optimize heat transfer fluid performance. Sales revenue decreased in 2023 compared to 2022 primarily due to lower selling prices and lower sales volume across most product lines. Lower selling prices were attributed to lower raw material prices. Lower sales volume was primarily attributed to deceleration of demand and customer destocking across several key end-markets. EBIT in 2023 included a gain on divested business and EBIT in 2022 included asset impairment and restructuring charges from a manufacturing facility closure. For more information regarding the divested business and asset impairments and restructuring charges, see Note 2, "Divestitures", and Note 16, "Asset Impairments and Restructuring Charges, Net", respectively, to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report. Excluding these non-core items, EBIT decreased in 2023 compared to 2022 primarily due to $154 million lower sales volume and higher manufacturing costs, primarily due to lower capacity utilization, and $69 million lower selling prices, net of lower raw material and energy costs and distribution costs. In 2023, the Company completed the sale of its operations located in Texas City, Texas, excluding its plasticizer operations. The total estimated consideration, after estimates of post-closing adjustments, was $498 million, which included approximately $415 million in cash at closing and an additional $38.5 million to be paid on each of the first and second anniversaries of the closing date of the transaction. The final purchase price is subject to working capital and other adjustments post-closing. 49 MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Sales revenue increased in 2023 compared to 2022 primarily due to higher selling prices in the acetate tow product line, driven by an increase in industry capacity utilization in addition to higher raw material, energy, and distribution prices throughout 2022. EBIT in 2023 included accelerated depreciation and EBIT in 2023 and 2022 included asset impairment and restructuring charges, net, all from a previously announced manufacturing facility closure. For more information regarding asset impairments and restructuring charges see Note 16, "Asset Impairments and Restructuring Charges, Net", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report. Excluding these non-core items, EBIT increased in 2023 compared to 2022 primarily due to higher selling prices in addition to lower raw material and energy costs and distribution costs of $284 million. Initiatives In 2023, the Fibers segment: • implemented contract price increases across the acetate tow customer base, driving growth and returning adjusted EBIT margins and cash flow generation to acceptable performance levels; • commercialized Naia™ Renew Enhanced Sustainability, an offering sourced from 60 percent recycled content with a global fashion brand known for its sustainability focus; and • reached over 70 signed trademark licensing agreements with high profile brands from major multinational fashion brands to sustainable champions in outdoor clothing. 50 MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Sales and costs related to growth initiatives, including circular economy, R&D costs, certain components of pension and other postretirement benefits, and other expenses and income not identifiable to an operating segment are not included in operating segment results for any of the periods presented and are included in "Other". Full year 2022 included sales revenue of a previously divested business. In 2023 and 2022 EBIT, the Company recognized severance and related costs as part of business improvement and cost reduction initiatives, insurance proceeds and net costs from the steam line incident, respectively, and environmental and other costs from previously divested or non-operational sites. EBIT in 2022 included EBIT of a previously divested business, a loss, net of transaction costs, on the divested business, and adjustments to contingent considerations. For more information regarding asset impairments and restructuring charges, see Note 16, "Asset Impairments and Restructuring Charges, Net", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. SALES BY CUSTOMER LOCATION Sales revenue decreased 13 percent due to decreases in sales revenue across all regions. Lower sales revenue was primarily due to lower sales volume (down 11 percent, including the impact from divested businesses). The most significant decrease in sales revenue occurred in the United States and Canada, primarily due to lower sales volume across all operating segments and lower selling prices in the CI and AFP segments, partially offset by higher selling prices in the Fibers and AM segments. See Note 20, "Segment and Regional Sales Information", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report for segment sales revenues by customer location. 51 MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS LIQUIDITY AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION Cash Flows The Company had cash and cash equivalents as follows: Cash flows from operations, cash and cash equivalents, and other sources of liquidity are expected to be available and sufficient to meet known short and long-term cash requirements. However, the Company's cash flows from operations can be affected by numerous factors including risks associated with global operations, raw material availability and cost, demand for and pricing of Eastman's products, capacity utilization, and other factors described under "Risk Factors" in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report. Management believes maintaining a financial profile that supports a solid investment grade credit rating is important to its long-term strategy and financial flexibility. Cash provided by operating activities increased $399 million primarily due to lower working capital, lower variable compensation payout, and lower pension and other postretirement contributions in excess of expenses, partially offset by lower net earnings excluding a gain on divested business in 2023 and a loss on divested business in 2022. Cash used in investing activities was $432 million in 2023 compared with cash provided by investing activities of $392 million in 2022 due to proceeds from the sale of the adhesives resins business in 2022 exceeding proceeds from the sale of the Texas City Operations, higher capital expenditures, and an acquisition in the AM segment in 2023. Cash used in financing activities decreased $433 million primarily due to lower treasury stock purchases partially offset by lower net proceeds and repayments from commercial paper and borrowings. For additional information, see "Liquidity and Other Financial Information - Debt and Other Commitments" in this MD&A for additional information. Working Capital Management Eastman applies a proactive and disciplined approach to working capital management to optimize cash flow and to enable a full range of capital allocation options in support of the Company's strategy. Eastman expects to continue utilizing the programs described below to support operating cash flow consistent with the Company's past practices. The Company has off balance sheet, uncommitted accounts receivable factoring programs under which entire invoices may be sold to third-party financial institutions. The vast majority of these programs are without recourse. Available capacity under these programs, which the Company uses as a routine source of working capital funding, is dependent on the level of accounts receivable eligible to be sold and the financial institutions' willingness to purchase such receivables. The total amounts sold in 2023 and 2022 were $2.8 billion and $2.5 billion, respectively. Based on the original terms of receivables sold for certain programs and actual outstanding balance of receivables under servicing agreements, the Company estimates that $397 million and $402 million of these receivables would have been outstanding as of December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, had they not been sold under these factoring programs. 52 MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Eastman works with suppliers to optimize payment terms and conditions on accounts payable to enhance timing of working capital and cash flows. The Company has a voluntary supply chain finance program to provide suppliers with the opportunity to sell receivables due from Eastman to a participating financial institution. See Note 1, "Significant Accounting Policies", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report for additional information regarding both programs. Debt and Other Commitments Eastman has debt and other commitments for debt securities, credit facilities, interest payable, purchase obligations, operating leases, and other liabilities. A summary of the Company's debt and other commitment obligations as of December 31, 2023 for each of the next five years and beyond is included in Note 12, "Leases and Other Commitments", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report. At December 31, 2023, Eastman's borrowings totaled approximately $4.8 billion with various maturities. In 2023, the Company repaid $808 million, including the foreign currency impact, of the 1.5% notes due May 2023 using a combination of available cash and debt proceeds. Additionally, the Company borrowed $300 million under a two-year term loan agreement (the "2024 Term Loan") and issued $500 million aggregate principal amount of 5.75% notes due March 2033 in a registered public offering (the "2023 Notes"). In 2022, the Company repaid $750 million of the 3.6% notes due August 2022 using available cash, and borrowed $500 million under a five-year term loan agreement (the "2027 Term Loan"). In January 2024, the Company repaid the 7.25% notes due January 2024 ($198 million principal) using available cash. There were no debt extinguishment costs associated with the repayment of this debt. For information about debt and related interest, see Note 9, "Borrowings", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report. Amounts in other liabilities represent the current estimated cash payments required to be made by the Company primarily for pension and other postretirement benefits, accrued compensation benefits, environmental loss contingency estimates, uncertain tax liabilities, and commodity and foreign exchange hedging in the periods indicated. Due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions with taxing authorities, management is unable to determine the timing of payments related to uncertain tax liabilities and these amounts are included in the "2029 and beyond" line item. The amount and timing of pension and other postretirement benefit payments included in other liabilities is dependent upon interest rates, health care cost trends, actual returns on plan assets, retirement and attrition rates of employees, continuation or modification of the benefit plans, and other factors. Such factors can significantly impact the amount and timing of any future contributions by the Company. Excess contributions are periodically made by management in order to keep the plans' funded status above 80 percent under the funding provisions of the Pension Protection Act to avoid partial benefit restrictions on accelerated forms of payment. The Company's U.S. defined benefit pension plans are not currently under any benefit restrictions. See Note 11, "Retirement Plans", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report, for more information regarding pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. The resolution of uncertainties related to environmental matters included in other liabilities may have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated results of operations in the period recognized, however, because of the availability of legal defenses, the Company's preliminary assessment of actions that may be required, and, if applicable, the expected sharing of costs, management does not believe that the Company's liability for these environmental matters, individually or in the aggregate, will be material to the Company's consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. See "Environmental Costs" in Note 1, "Significant Accounting Policies", and Note 13, "Environmental Matters and Asset Retirement Obligations", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report for more information regarding outstanding environmental matters and asset retirement obligations. 53 MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Credit Facility, Term Loans, and Commercial Paper Borrowings The Company has access to a $1.50 billion revolving credit agreement (the "Credit Facility") that was amended in March 2023 to replace the London Interbank Offered Rate-based ("LIBOR") reference interest rate option with a reference interest rate option based upon the Term Secured Overnight Financing Rate ("SOFR") (as defined in the Credit Facility). In February 2024, the Credit Facility was amended to extend the maturity to February 2029. All other material terms of the Credit Facility remain unchanged. Borrowings under the Credit Facility are subject to interest at varying spreads above quoted market rates and a commitment fee is paid on the total unused commitment. The Credit Facility includes sustainability-linked pricing terms, provides available liquidity for general corporate purposes, and supports commercial paper borrowings. At December 31, 2023, the Company had no outstanding borrowings under the Credit Facility and no commercial paper borrowings. In 2023, the Company borrowed $300 million under the 2024 Term Loan, and as of December 31, 2023, the balance outstanding was $300 million with a variable interest rate of 6.58%. In 2022, the Company borrowed $500 million under the 2027 Term Loan, and the balance outstanding was $499 million at both December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, with variable interest rates of 6.58% and 5.55%, respectively. Borrowings under the 2024 Term Loan and 2027 Term Loan are subject to interest at varying spreads above quoted market rates. The Credit Facility, the 2024 Term Loan, and the 2027 Term Loan contain customary covenants, including requirements to maintain certain financial ratios, that determine the events of default, amounts available, and terms of borrowings. The Company was in compliance with all applicable covenants at December 31, 2023. The total amount of available borrowings under the Credit Facility was $1.50 billion as of December 31, 2023. For additional information regarding financial covenants under the Credit Facility, see Section 5.03 of the Credit Facility filed as to this Annual Report. See Note 9, "Borrowings", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report. Net Debt (1) Includes non-cash increase of $20 million in 2023 and non-cash decrease of  $85 million in 2022 resulting from foreign currency exchange rates. Capital Expenditures Capital expenditures were $828 million and $611 million in 2023 and 2022, respectively. Capital expenditures in 2023 were primarily for the AM segment methanolysis plastic-to-plastic molecular recycling manufacturing facility in Kingsport, Tennessee, and other targeted growth initiatives and site modernization projects. The Company expects that 2024 capital spending will be less than $800 million, primarily for targeted growth initiatives, including the AM segment methanolysis plastic-to-plastic molecular recycling manufacturing facilities, and site modernization projects. The Company had capital expenditures related to environmental protection and improvement of approximately $65 million and $60 million in 2023 and 2022, respectively. The Company does not currently expect near term environmental capital expenditures arising from requirements of environmental laws and regulations to materially impact the Company's planned level of annual capital expenditures for environmental control facilities. 54 MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Dividends and Stock Repurchases In December 2021, the Company's Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $2.5 billion of the Company's outstanding common stock at such times, in such amounts, and on such terms, as determined by management to be in the best interest of the Company and its stockholders (the "2021 authorization"). As of December 31, 2023, a total of 8,610,749 shares have been repurchased under the 2021 authorization for $785 million. During 2023, the Company repurchased 1,866,866 shares of common stock for $150 million. During 2022, the Company repurchased 10,710,259 shares of common stock for $1.1 billion, primarily under the 2022 accelerated share repurchase program, and included $100 million from the settlement of a 2021 accelerated share repurchase program. The Board of Directors has declared a cash dividend of $0.81 per share during the first quarter of 2024, payable on April 5, 2024 to stockholders of record on March 15, 2024. Both dividends and share repurchases are key strategies employed by the Company to return value to its stockholders. INFLATION In recent years, Eastman has experienced significant volatility attributed to inflation. The cost of raw materials is generally based on market prices, although derivative instruments are utilized, as appropriate, to mitigate short-term market price fluctuations. Management expects the volatility of raw material and energy prices and costs to continue and the Company will continue to pursue pricing and hedging strategies and ongoing cost control initiatives to offset the effects. For additional information, see "Risk Factors" in Part I, Item 1A, "Summary by Operating Segments" in this MD&A, and Note 10, "Derivative and Non-Derivative Financial Instruments", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report. RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS For information regarding the impact of recently issued accounting standards, see Note 1, "Significant Accounting Policies", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report. 55