********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

For identification and discussion of the material known factors, risks, and uncertainties that could, in the future, materially adversely affect the Company, its business, financial condition, or results of operations, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Risk Factors" in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

This Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A") is based upon the consolidated financial statements of Eastman Chemical Company ("Eastman" or the "Company"), which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted ("GAAP") in the United States, and should be read in conjunction with the Company's consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (this "Annual Report"). All references to earnings per share ("EPS") contained in this report are to diluted EPS unless otherwise noted. EBIT is the GAAP measure earnings before interest and taxes. For a discussion of the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to the year ended December 31, 2020, please read "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Part II, Item. 7 of Eastman's for the year ended December 31, 2021. 27 MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES In preparing the consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP, management must make decisions which impact the reported amounts and the related disclosures. Such decisions include the selection of the appropriate accounting principles to be applied and assumptions on which to base estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, sales revenue and expenses, fair value of disposal groups, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, Eastman evaluates its estimates, including those related to impairment of long-lived assets, environmental costs, pension and other postretirement benefits, and income taxes. The Company bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Management believes the critical accounting estimates described below are the most important to the fair presentation of the Company's financial condition and results. These estimates require management's most significant judgments in the preparation of the Company's consolidated financial statements. Impairment of Long-Lived Assets Definite-lived Assets Properties and equipment and definite-lived intangible assets to be held and used by Eastman are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. The review of properties and equipment and the review of definite-lived intangible assets is performed at the asset group level, which is the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities. If the carrying amount is not considered to be recoverable, an analysis of fair value is triggered. An impairment is recognized for the excess of the carrying amount of the asset over the fair value. The Company's assumptions to estimate cash flows in the evaluation of impairment related to long-lived assets are subject to change and impairments may be required in the future. If estimates of fair value less costs to sell are decreased, the carrying amount of the related asset is reduced, resulting in a charge to earnings. Goodwill Goodwill is an asset determined as the residual of the purchase price over the fair value of identified assets and liabilities acquired in a business combination. Eastman conducts testing of goodwill for impairment annually in the fourth quarter or more frequently when events and circumstances indicate an impairment may have occurred. The testing of goodwill is performed at the "reporting unit" level which the Company has determined to be its "components". Components are defined as an operating segment or one level below an operating segment, and in order to be a reporting unit, the component must 1) be a "business" as defined by applicable accounting standards (an integrated set of activities and assets that is capable of being conducted and managed for the purpose of providing a return in the form of dividends, lower costs, or other economic benefits directly to the investors or other owners, members, or participants); 2) have discrete financial information available; and 3) be reviewed regularly by Company operating segment management. The Company aggregates certain components into reporting units based on economic similarities. An impairment is recognized when the reporting unit's estimated fair value is less than its carrying value. The Company uses an income approach, specifically a discounted cash flow model, in testing the carrying value of goodwill for each reporting unit for impairment. Key assumptions and estimates used in the Company's 2022 goodwill impairment testing included projections of revenues and EBIT determined using the Company's annual multi-year strategic plan, the estimated weighted average cost of capital ("WACC"), and a projected long-term growth rate. The Company believes these assumptions are consistent with those a hypothetical market participant would use given circumstances that were present at the time the estimates were made. However, actual results and amounts may be significantly different from the Company's estimates. In addition, the use of different estimates or assumptions could result in materially different estimated fair values of reporting units. The WACC is calculated incorporating weighted average returns on debt and equity from market participants. Therefore, changes in the market, which are beyond the control of the Company, may have an impact on future estimates of fair value. The Company had $3.7 billion of goodwill as of December 31, 2022. As a result of the goodwill impairment testing performed during fourth quarter 2022, fair values were determined to exceed the carrying values for each reporting unit tested. Declines in market conditions or forecasted revenue and EBIT could result in a future impairment of goodwill. 28 MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Indefinite-lived Intangible Assets Indefinite-lived intangible assets, consisting primarily of tradenames, are tested for potential impairment by comparing the estimated fair value to the carrying amount. The Company elected to perform a qualitative impairment assessment of indefinite-lived intangible assets in 2022. The qualitative assessment did not identify indicators of impairment, and it was determined that it is more likely than not the fair value of indefinite-lived intangible assets was greater than their carrying value. When a quantitative impairment assessment is performed, the Company uses an income approach, specifically the relief from royalty method, to test indefinite-lived intangible assets for potential impairment. The estimated fair value of tradenames is determined based on projections of revenue and an assumed royalty rate savings, discounted by the calculated market participant WACC plus a risk premium. The Company had $359 million in indefinite-lived intangible assets at December 31, 2022. There was no impairment of the Company's indefinite-lived intangible assets as a result of the tests performed during fourth quarter 2022. Declines in market conditions or forecasted revenue could result in impairment of indefinite-lived intangible assets. The Company will continue to monitor both goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for any indication of events which might require additional testing before the next annual impairment test and could result in material impairment charges. For additional information related to impairment of long-lived assets, see Note 1, "Significant Accounting Policies", Note 4, "Properties and Accumulated Depreciation", Note 5, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets", and Note 16, "Asset Impairments and Restructuring Charges, Net", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report. Environmental Costs Eastman recognizes environmental remediation costs when it is probable that the Company has incurred a liability at a contaminated site and the amount can be reasonably estimated. When a single amount cannot be reasonably estimated but the cost can be estimated within a range, the Company recognizes the minimum undiscounted amount. This undiscounted amount reflects liabilities expected to be paid within approximately 30 years and the Company's assumptions about remediation requirements at the contaminated site, the nature of the remedy, the outcome of discussions with regulatory agencies and other potentially responsible parties at multi-party sites, and the number and financial viability of other potentially responsible parties. Changes in the estimates on which the accruals are based, unanticipated government enforcement action, or changes in health, safety, environmental, and chemical control regulations and testing requirements could result in higher or lower costs. Estimated future environmental expenditures for undiscounted remediation costs ranged from the best estimate or minimum of $245 million to the maximum of $457 million at December 31, 2022. The best estimate or minimum estimated future environmental expenditures are considered to be probable and reasonably estimable and include the amounts recognized at December 31, 2022. For additional information, see Note 13, "Environmental Matters and Asset Retirement Obligations", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report. Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits Eastman maintains defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans that provide eligible employees with retirement benefits. The estimated amounts of the costs and obligations related to these benefits primarily reflect the Company's assumptions related to discount rates and expected return on plan assets. For the Company's U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans, the Company assumed weighted average discount rates of 5.58 percent and 4.27 percent, respectively, and weighted average expected returns on plan assets of 6.62 percent and 3.86 percent, respectively, at December 31, 2022. The Company assumed a weighted average discount rate of 5.55 percent for its other postretirement benefit plans at December 31, 2022. The estimated cost of providing plan benefits also depends on demographic assumptions including retirements, mortality, turnover, and plan participation. 29 MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The projected benefit obligation as of December 31, 2022 and expense for 2023 are affected by year-end 2022 assumptions. The following table illustrates the sensitivity to changes in the Company's long-term assumptions in the assumed discount rate and expected return on plan assets for all pension and other postretirement benefit plans. The sensitivities below are specific to the time periods noted. They also may not be additive, so the impact of changing multiple factors simultaneously cannot be calculated by combining the individual sensitivities shown. The assumed discount rate and expected return on plan assets used to calculate the Company's pension and other postretirement benefit obligations are established each December 31. The assumed discount rate is based upon a portfolio of high-grade corporate bonds, which are used to develop a yield curve. This yield curve is applied to the expected cash flows of the pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. Because future health care benefits under the U.S. benefit plan have been fixed at a certain contribution amount, changes in the health care cost trend assumptions do not have a material impact on results of operations. The expected return on plan assets is based upon prior performance and the long-term expected returns in the markets in which the plans invest their funds, primarily in U.S. and non-U.S. fixed income securities, U.S. and non-U.S. public equity securities, private equity, and real estate. Moreover, the expected return on plan assets is a long-term assumption and on average is expected to approximate the actual return on plan assets. Actual returns will be subject to year-to-year variances and could vary materially from assumptions. The Company calculates service and interest cost components of net periodic benefit costs for its significant defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans by applying the specific spot rates along the yield curve to the plans' projected cash flows. This cost approach does not affect the measurement of the total benefit obligation or the annual net periodic benefit cost or credit of the plans because the change in the service and interest costs will be offset in the mark-to-market ("MTM") actuarial gain or loss. The MTM gain or loss, as described in the next paragraph, is typically recognized in the fourth quarter of each year or in any other quarters in which an interim remeasurement is triggered. The Company uses fair value accounting for plan assets. If actual experience differs from actuarial assumptions, primarily discount rates and long-term assumptions for asset returns which were used in determining the current year expense, the difference is recognized as part of the MTM net gain or loss in fourth quarter each year, and any other quarter in which an interim remeasurement is triggered. See the calculation of the MTM pension and other post-retirement benefits (gain) loss table below in "NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES - Non-GAAP Financial Measures - Non-Core and Unusual Items Excluded from Earnings". 30 MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS While changes in obligations do not correspond directly to cash funding requirements, it is an indication of the amount the Company will be required to contribute to the plans in future years. The amount and timing of such cash contributions is dependent upon interest rates, actual returns on plan assets, retirements, attrition rates of employees, and other factors. For further information regarding pension and other postretirement benefit obligations, see Note 11, "Retirement Plans", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report. Income Taxes Amounts of deferred tax assets and liabilities on Eastman's Consolidated Statements of Financial Position are based on temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, applying enacted tax rates expected to be in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. The ability to realize deferred tax assets is evaluated through the forecasting of taxable income and domestic and foreign taxes, using historical and projected future operating results, the reversal of existing temporary differences, and the availability of tax planning opportunities. Valuation allowances are recognized to reduce deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will not be realized. In the event that the actual outcome of future tax consequences differs from management estimates and assumptions, the resulting change to the provision for income taxes could have a material impact on the consolidated results of operations and statements of financial position. As of December 31, 2022, valuation allowances of $258 million have been provided against the deferred tax assets. The calculation of income tax liabilities involves uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws and regulations, which are subject to legal interpretation and management judgment. Eastman's income tax returns are regularly examined by federal, state and foreign tax authorities, and those audits may result in proposed adjustments which could result in additional income tax liabilities and income tax expense. Income tax expense could be materially impacted to the extent the Company prevails in a tax position or when the statute of limitations expires for a tax position for which a liability for unrecognized tax benefits, or to the extent payments are required in excess of the established liability for unrecognized tax benefits. For further information, see Note 8, "Income Taxes", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report. NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES Non-GAAP financial measures, and the accompanying reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most comparable GAAP measures, are presented below in this section and in "Overview", "Results of Operations", "Summary by Operating Segment", and "Liquidity and Other Financial Information - Cash Flows" in this MD&A. Management discloses non-GAAP financial measures, and the related reconciliations to the most comparable GAAP financial measures, because it believes investors use these metrics in evaluating longer term period-over-period performance, and to allow investors to better understand and evaluate the information used by management to assess the Company's and its operating segments' performances, make resource allocation decisions, and evaluate organizational and individual performances in determining certain performance-based compensation. Non-GAAP financial measures do not have definitions under GAAP, and may be defined differently by, and not be comparable to, similarly titled measures used by other companies. As a result, management cautions investors not to place undue reliance on any non-GAAP financial measure, but to consider such measures alongside the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. 31 MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Company Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures Non-Core Items and any Unusual or Non-Recurring Items Excluded from Non-GAAP Earnings In addition to evaluating Eastman's financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, and cash flows as reported in accordance with GAAP, management evaluates Company and operating segment performance, and makes resource allocation and performance evaluation decisions, excluding the effect of transactions, costs, and losses or gains that do not directly result from Eastman's normal, or "core", business and operations, or are otherwise of an unusual or non-recurring nature. • Non-core transactions, costs, and losses or gains relate to, among other things, cost reductions, growth and profitability improvement initiatives, changes in businesses and assets, and other events outside of core business operations, and have included asset impairments and restructuring charges and gains, costs of and related to acquisitions, gains and losses from and costs related to dispositions, closure, or shutdowns of businesses or assets, financing transaction costs, environmental costs related to previously divested businesses or non-operational sites and product lines, and mark-to-market losses or gains for pension and other postretirement benefit plans. • In 2022, the Company recognized unusual costs, net of insurance proceeds, from the previously reported January 31, 2022 operational incident at its Kingsport site as a result of a steam line failure (the "steam line incident"). Management considered the operational incident unusual because of the Company's operational and safety history and the magnitude of the unplanned disruption. • In 2021, the Company decreased the provision for income taxes due to adjustment of the amount recognized in prior years resulting from the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ("Tax Reform Act"). As with the prior years' item to which this relates, management considers this decrease unusual because of the infrequent nature of the underlying change in tax law and resulting impacts on earnings. Because non-core, unusual, or non-recurring transactions, costs, and losses or gains may materially affect the Company's, or any particular operating segment's, financial condition or results in a specific period in which they are recognized, management believes it is appropriate to evaluate the financial measures prepared and calculated in accordance with both GAAP and the related non-GAAP financial measures excluding the effect on the Company's results of these non-core, unusual, or non-recurring items. In addition to using such measures to evaluate results in a specific period, management evaluates such non-GAAP measures, and believes that investors may also evaluate such measures, because such measures may provide more complete and consistent comparisons of the Company's, and its segments', operational performance on a period-over-period historical basis and, as a result, provide a better indication of expected future trends. Adjusted Tax Rate and Provision for Income Taxes In interim periods, Eastman discloses non-GAAP earnings with an adjusted effective tax rate and a resulting adjusted provision for income taxes using the Company's forecasted tax rate for the full year as of the end of the interim period. The adjusted effective tax rate and resulting adjusted provision for income taxes are equal to the Company's projected full year effective tax rate and provision for income taxes on earnings excluding non-core, unusual, or non-recurring items for completed periods. The adjusted effective tax rate and resulting adjusted provision for income taxes may fluctuate during the year for changes in events and circumstances that change the Company's forecasted annual effective tax rate and resulting provision for income taxes excluding non-core, unusual, or non-recurring items. Management discloses this adjusted effective tax rate, and the related reconciliation to the GAAP effective tax rate, to provide investors more complete and consistent comparisons of the Company's operational performance on a period-over-period interim basis and on the same basis as management evaluates quarterly financial results to provide a better indication of expected full year results. Non-GAAP Debt Measure Eastman from time to time evaluates and discloses to investors and securities and credit analysts the non-GAAP debt measure "net debt", which management defines as total borrowings less cash and cash equivalents. Management believes this metric is useful to investors and securities and credit analysts to provide them with information similar to that used by management in evaluating the Company's overall financial position, liquidity, and leverage and because management believes investors, securities analysts, credit analysts and rating agencies, and lenders often use a similar measure to assess and compare companies' relative financial position and liquidity. 32 MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Non-GAAP Measures in this Annual Report The following non-core items are excluded by management in its evaluation of certain earnings results in this Annual Report: • Asset impairments and restructuring charges, net; • Mark-to-market pension and other postretirement benefit plans gains and losses resulting from the changes in discount rates and other actuarial assumptions and the difference between actual and expected returns on plan assets during the period; • Environmental and other costs from previously divested or non-operational sites and product lines; • Gains and losses, net on divested businesses and related transaction costs; • Adjustments to contingent considerations; • Accelerated depreciation resulting from the closure of a manufacturing facility as part of site optimization; and • Early debt extinguishment costs. The following unusual items are excluded by management in its evaluation of certain earnings results in this Annual Report: • Steam line incident costs, net of insurance proceeds, and • Decrease to the provision for income taxes due to adjustment of the amount recognized in prior years as a result of the Tax Reform Act. As described above, the alternative non-GAAP measure of debt, "net debt", is also presented in this Annual Report. Non-GAAP Financial Measures - Non-Core and Unusual Items Excluded from Earnings 33 MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Below is the calculation of the "Other components of post-employment (benefit) cost, net" that are not included in the above non-core item "mark-to-market pension and other postretirement benefits loss (gain), net" and that are included in the non-GAAP results. Below is the calculation of the MTM pension and other post-retirement benefits (gain) loss disclosed above. (1) Actuarial gain resulted primarily from the change in discount rates from the prior year and changes in other actuarial assumptions. (2) Curtailment gain in a Non U.S. pension plan was triggered by the sale of the adhesives resins business. The Company retained certain plan participants while the status of the participants changed. The curtailment includes $3 million reduction in the pension benefit obligation and $4 million of prior service credits recognized. For more detail about MTM pension and other postretirement benefit plans net gains and losses, including actual and expected return on plan assets and the components of the net gain or loss, see "Critical Accounting Estimates - Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits" above, and Note 11, "Retirement Plans", "Summary of Changes - Actuarial (gain) loss, Actual return on plan assets, and Reserve for third party contributions", and "Summary of Benefit Costs and Other Amounts Recognized in Other Comprehensive Income - Mark-to-market pension and other postretirement benefits (gain) loss, net" to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report. This MD&A includes the effect of the foregoing on the following GAAP financial measures: • Gross profit, • Selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") expenses, • Other components of post-employment (benefit) cost, net, • Other (income) charges, net, • Earnings before interest and taxes ("EBIT"), • Provision for income taxes, • Net earnings attributable to Eastman, • Diluted EPS, and • Total borrowings. 34 MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Other Non-GAAP Financial Measures Alternative Non-GAAP Cash Flow Measures In addition to the non-GAAP measures presented in this Annual Report and other periodic reports, management may occasionally evaluate and disclose to investors and securities analysts the non-GAAP measure cash provided by or used in operating activities excluding certain non-core, unusual, or non-recurring sources or uses of cash or including cash from or used by activities that are managed as part of core business operations ("adjusted cash provided by or used in operating activities") when analyzing, among other things, business performance, liquidity and financial position, and performance-based compensation. Management has used this non-GAAP measure in conjunction with the GAAP measure cash provided by or used in operating activities because it believes it is an appropriate metric to evaluate the cash flows from Eastman's core operations that are available for organic and inorganic growth initiatives and because it allows for a more consistent period-over-period presentation of such amounts. In its evaluation, management generally excludes the impact of certain non-core and unusual activities and decisions of management that it considers not core, ongoing components of operations and the decisions to undertake or not to undertake such activities may be made irrespective of the cash generated from operations, and generally includes cash from or used in activities that are managed as operating activities and in business operating decisions. Management has disclosed this non-GAAP measure and the related reconciliation to investors, securities analysts, credit analysts and rating agencies, and lenders to allow them to better understand and evaluate the information used by management in its decision-making processes and because management believes investors and securities analysts use similar measures to assess Company performance, liquidity, and financial position over multiple periods and to compare these with other companies. From time to time, Eastman may evaluate and disclose to investors and securities analysts an alternative non-GAAP measure of "free cash flow", which management defines as net cash provided by or used in operating activities less the amount of net capital expenditures (typically the GAAP measure additions to properties and equipment). In addition, Eastman may disclose to investors and securities analysts an alternative non-GAAP measure of "free cash flow yield", which management defines as annual free cash flow divided by the Company's market capitalization, and "free cash flow conversion", which management defines as annual free cash flow divided by adjusted net income. Management believes these metrics can be useful to investors and securities analysts in comparing cash flow generation with that of peer and other companies. Alternative Non-GAAP Earnings Measures From time to time, Eastman may also disclose to investors and securities analysts the non-GAAP earnings measures "Adjusted EBIT Margin", "Adjusted EBITDA", "Adjusted EBITDA Margin", "Return on Invested Capital" (or "ROIC"), and "Adjusted ROIC". Management defines Adjusted EBIT Margin as the GAAP measure EBIT adjusted to exclude the same non-core, unusual, or non-recurring items as are excluded from the Company's other non-GAAP earnings measures for the same periods divided by the GAAP measure sales revenue in the Company's Consolidated Statement of Earnings, Comprehensive Income and Retained Earnings for the same period. Adjusted EBITDA is EBITDA (net earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) adjusted to exclude the same non-core, unusual, or non-recurring items as are excluded from the Company's other non-GAAP earnings measures for the same periods. Adjusted EBITDA Margin is Adjusted EBITDA divided by the GAAP measure sales revenue in the Company's Consolidated Statement of Earnings, Comprehensive Income and Retained Earnings for the same periods. Management defines ROIC as net earnings plus interest expense after tax divided by average total borrowings plus average stockholders' equity for the periods presented, each derived from the GAAP measures in the Company's financial statements for the periods presented. Adjusted ROIC is ROIC adjusted to exclude from net earnings the same non-core, unusual, or non-recurring items as are excluded from the Company's other non-GAAP earnings measures for the same periods. Management believes that Adjusted EBIT Margin, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA Margin, ROIC, and Adjusted ROIC are useful as supplemental measures in evaluating the performance of and returns from Eastman's operating businesses, and from time to time uses such measures in internal performance calculations. Further, management understands that investors and securities analysts often use similar measures of Adjusted EBIT Margin, Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA Margin, ROIC, and Adjusted ROIC to compare the results, returns, and value of the Company with those of peer and other companies. 35 MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OVERVIEW Eastman's products and operations are managed and reported in four operating segments: Advanced Materials ("AM"), Additives & Functional Products ("AFP"), Chemical Intermediates ("CI"), and Fibers. Eastman uses an innovation-driven growth model which consists of leveraging world class scalable technology platforms, delivering differentiated application development capabilities, and relentlessly engaging the market. The Company's world class technology platforms form the foundation of sustainable growth by differentiated products through significant scale advantages in research and development ("R&D") and advantaged global market access. Molecular recycling technologies continue to be an area of investment focus for the Company and extends the level of differentiation afforded by its world class technology platforms. Differentiated application development converts market complexity into opportunities for growth and accelerates innovation by enabling a deeper understanding of the value of Eastman's products and how they perform within customers' and end-user products. Key areas of application development include thermoplastic conversion, functional films, coatings formulations, textiles and nonwovens, animal nutrition, and personal and home care formulations. The Company engages the market by working directly with customers and downstream users, targeting attractive niche markets, and leveraging disruptive macro trends. Management believes that these elements of the Company's innovation-driven growth model, combined with disciplined portfolio management and balanced capital deployment, will result in consistent, sustainable earnings growth and strong cash flow from operations. The Company generated sales revenue of $10.6 billion and $10.5 billion for 2022 and 2021, respectively. EBIT was $1.2 billion and $1.3 billion in 2022 and 2021, respectively. Excluding the non-core and unusual items referenced in "Non-GAAP Financial Measures", adjusted EBIT was $1.3 billion and $1.6 billion in 2022 and 2021, respectively. Sales revenue in 2022 compared to 2021 was relatively unchanged as higher selling prices, resulting from higher raw material, energy, and distribution prices, were mostly offset by lower sales volume. Sales volume was lower due to an unfavorable impact from divested businesses and limited product availability in the first nine months of the year resulting from unplanned outages. The Company experienced significantly lower end-market demand and customer inventory destocking, mostly in fourth quarter 2022. Adjusted EBIT decreased in 2022 compared to 2021 primarily due to lower sales volume; higher manufacturing costs resulting from planned and unplanned outages; an unfavorable shift in foreign currency exchanges rates; and continued investment in growth. These factors were partially offset by higher selling prices, net of higher raw material and energy costs, and distribution costs, as well as lower SG&A costs, primarily due to variable compensation costs. On January 31, 2022, the Company had an incident at its Kingsport site as a result of a steam line failure (the "steam line incident"). Consistent with Eastman's safety processes, all manufacturing operations at the site were safely shut down following the incident. All impacted areas of the manufacturing facility were operational as of March 31, 2022. The primary impacted area was specialty copolyesters in the AM segment. The Fibers segment was also modestly impacted. Incremental costs, net of insurance proceeds, of $39 million for 2022, primarily related to the repair of damaged infrastructure, were excluded from the Company's adjusted EBIT. On November 1, 2021, the Company completed the sale of the rubber additives (including Crystex™ insoluble sulfur and Santoflex™ antidegradants) and other product lines and related assets and technology of the global tire additives business of its AFP segment ("rubber additives"). The sale did not include the Eastman Impera™ and other performance resins product lines of the tire additives business. On April 1, 2022, the Company completed the sale of the adhesives resins business, which included hydrocarbon resins (including Eastman Impera™ tire resins), pure monomer resins, polyolefin polymers, rosins and dispersions, and oleochemical and fatty-acid based resins product lines, of its AFP segment ("adhesives resins"). For additional information on the sales of the rubber additives business and the adhesive resins business, see Note 2, "Divestitures", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report. Discussion of sales revenue and EBIT changes is presented in "Results of Operations" and "Summary by Operating Segment" in this MD&A. 36 MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Net earnings and EPS and adjusted net earnings and EPS were as follows: The Company generated $975 million and $1.6 billion of cash from operating activities in 2022 and 2021, respectively. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Eastman's results of operations as presented in the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report are summarized and analyzed below. Sales (1) Contribution to sales revenue of businesses divested which are not in 2022 comparable periods. Sales revenue increased as a result of increases in all operating segments. Further discussion by operating segments is presented in "Summary of Operating Segment" in this MD&A. Gross Profit Gross profit in 2022 included incremental costs, net of insurance proceeds, from the steam line incident. Gross profit in 2021 included accelerated depreciation resulting from the closure of an advanced interlayers manufacturing facility in North America in the AM segment as part of site optimization actions. Excluding these non-core and unusual items, gross profit decreased as a result of decreases in all operating segments, except the AFP segment. Further discussion of sales revenue and EBIT changes is presented in "Summary by Operating Segment" in this MD&A. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses SG&A expenses in 2022 and 2021 included transaction costs for the divestitures of rubber additives and adhesives resins which were not allocated to an operating segment and reported in "Other". Excluding the non-core item mentioned above, SG&A expenses decreased primarily as a result of lower variable compensation costs partially offset by higher growth initiative costs. 37 MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Research and Development Expenses R&D expenses increased primarily due to higher spend for growth investment, primarily in the AM and AFP segments including methanolysis and other circular economy initiatives. Asset Impairments and Restructuring Charges, Net For detailed information regarding asset impairments and restructuring charges, net see Note 16, "Asset Impairments and Restructuring Charges, Net", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report. 38 MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Other Components of Post-employment (Benefit) Cost, Net For more information regarding "Other components of post-employment (benefit) cost, net" see Note 1, "Significant Accounting Policies", and Note 11, "Retirement Plans", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report. Other (Income) Charges, Net For more information regarding components of foreign exchange transaction losses, see Note 10, "Derivative and Non-Derivative Financial Instruments", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report. Earnings Before Interest and Taxes For more information regarding items that impact EBIT, see "Overview", and items described above in "Results of Operations". 39 MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Net Interest Expense Net interest expense decreased in 2022 compared to 2021 primarily as a result of lower total borrowings. Early Debt Extinguishment Costs In 2022, the Company repaid the 3.6% notes due August 2022, of which $550 million was repaid in second quarter 2022 primarily from the proceeds of a $500 million five-year term loan agreement (the "2027 Term Loan") and $200 million was repaid in third quarter 2022 using available cash. There were no debt extinguishment costs associated with the repayment of this debt. In 2021, the Company amended and restated the $1.50 billion revolving credit agreement (the "Credit Facility"). This resulted in a charge of $1 million for early debt extinguishment costs which was attributable to unamortized fees. For additional information regarding the early debt extinguishment costs, see Note 9, "Borrowings", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report. Provision for Income Taxes (1) Provision for income taxes for non-core and unusual items is calculated using the tax rate for the jurisdiction where the gains are taxable and the expenses are deductible. The 2022 provision for income taxes include a $32 million decrease related to the release of a state valuation allowance and a $37 million increase to reflect the tax implications of the business divestitures, including an increase related to non-deductible losses. The 2021 provision for income taxes included a $78 million decrease primarily related to previously unrecognized tax positions resulting from finalization of prior years' income tax audits, partially offset by current year increases. Additionally, the 2021 provision for income taxes included impacts of the divestiture of rubber additives, including an increase related to non-deductible losses partially offset by a decrease from the revaluation of deferred tax liabilities. For more information, see Note 8, "Income Taxes", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report. 40 MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Net Earnings Attributable to Eastman and Diluted Earnings per Share (1) The provision for income taxes for non-core and unusual items is calculated using the tax rate for the jurisdiction where the gains are taxable and the expenses are deductible. SUMMARY BY OPERATING SEGMENT Eastman's products and operations are managed and reported in four operating segments: Advanced Materials ("AM"), Additives & Functional Products ("AFP"), Chemical Intermediates ("CI"), and Fibers. For additional financial and product information for each operating segment, see "Business - Business Segments" in Part I, Item 1 of this Annual Report and Note 20, "Segment and Regional Sales Information", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report and the recasted financial information for the AFP segment and "Other" in Part II, Item 5, "Other Information" of the for first quarter 2022. 41 MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Sales revenue increased in 2022 compared to 2021 primarily due to higher selling prices partially offset by lower sales volume and an unfavorable shift in foreign currency exchange rates. Higher selling prices across all product lines were due to higher raw material, energy, and distribution prices. Lower sales volume was due to reduced demand and significant destocking attributed to global economic uncertainty in consumer durables and building and construction end-markets, primarily in fourth quarter 2022, as well as planned and unplanned outages. The lower sales volume was partially offset by favorable product mix due to increased sales of premium products in the advanced interlayers and specialty plastics product lines. EBIT in 2022 and 2021 included asset impairment and restructuring charges, net, and in 2021 included accelerated depreciation. For more information regarding asset impairments and restructuring charges see Note 16, "Asset Impairments and Restructuring Charges, Net", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report. Excluding these non-core items, EBIT decreased primarily due to: $79 million of lower sales volume and higher manufacturing costs, primarily due to lower capacity utilization and costs from planned and unplanned outages; $34 million of an unfavorable shift in foreign exchange rates; and $14 million of higher growth spending. Initiatives In 2022, the AM segment: • achieved key milestones for planned molecular recycling facilities (see "Corporate Overview - Business Strategy - Sustainability and Circular Economy - Circularity" in Part I, Item 1 of this Annual Report); • continued adoption of polyester renewal technology for products including, Tritan ™ Renew, Cristal ™ Renew, and Cristal ™ One Renew across several end-markets, including cosmetic packaging, eyewear and power tools; and • continued to expand portfolio of differentiated post-applied window films and protective films for automotive and architectural applications. Sales revenue increased in 2022 compared to 2021 primarily due to higher selling prices and higher sales volume, partially offset by an unfavorable shift in foreign currency exchange rates. Higher selling prices were due to strong demand across several key end-markets. Cost pass-through contracts represented approximately 45 percent of the selling price increase in 2022. The increase in sales volume due to growth in care additives and animal nutrition product lines was mostly offset by a decline in building and construction and industrial end-markets primarily attributed to deceleration of demand and customer inventory destocking in fourth quarter 2022 attributed to global economic uncertainty. EBIT in 2021 included asset impairments and restructuring charges, net. For more information regarding asset impairments and restructuring charges see Note 16, "Asset Impairments and Restructuring Charges, Net", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report. Excluding these non-core items, EBIT increased in 2022 compared to 2021 primarily due to: $49 million higher selling prices, net of higher raw material and energy costs, and higher distribution costs; lower SG&A costs partially offset by higher R&D costs, totaling $10 million; $14 million unfavorable shift in foreign currency exchange rates; and $9 million of higher manufacturing costs. 42 MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Initiatives In 2022, the AFP segment: • expanded capacity and capabilities of Eastapure ™ electronic solvents for use in manufacturing of semiconductor chips and other electronic applications with extremely low organic and inorganic impurities; • realized additional production capacity across its Global Alkylamines assets through optimization projects; and • continued global launch of Fluid Genius ™ , a patent-pending product that equips end-users with predictive insights to optimize heat transfer fluid performance by leveraging artificial intelligence technology with Eastman expertise to monitor and maximize the life cycle of heat transfer fluids for a myriad of system applications. Sales revenue increased in 2022 compared to 2021 primarily due to higher selling prices, resulting from higher raw material, energy, and distribution prices, as well as constrained market conditions. This increase was partially offset by lower sales volume and an unfavorable shift in foreign currency exchange rates. The decrease in sales volume, primarily in plasticizers, which was partially offset by demand growth in the agriculture end-market for functional amines, was broadened in fourth quarter 2022 due to slowing demand in the building and construction and industrial end-markets, primarily attributed to deceleration of demand and customer inventory destocking related to global economic uncertainty. EBIT in 2022 and 2021 included asset impairment and restructuring charges, net. For more information regarding asset impairments and restructuring charges see Note 16, "Asset Impairments and Restructuring Charges, Net", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report. Excluding these non-core items, EBIT decreased in 2022 compared to 2021 primarily due to $121 million lower sales volume and higher manufacturing costs partially offset by $60 million higher selling prices, net of higher raw material and energy costs, and higher distribution costs, and $31 million lower SG&A costs. In addition, there was a $14 million unfavorable shift in foreign currency exchange rates. 43 MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Sales revenue increased in 2022 compared to 2021 primarily due to higher selling prices across the segment due to higher raw material, energy, and distribution prices. EBIT in 2022 included asset impairment and restructuring charges, net. For more information regarding asset impairments and restructuring charges see Note 16, "Asset Impairments and Restructuring Charges, Net", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report. Excluding the non-core item, EBIT was relatively unchanged as higher selling prices, net of higher raw material and energy costs, and higher distribution costs, were offset by higher manufacturing costs resulting from planned and unplanned outages. Initiatives In 2022, the Fibers segment: • implemented variable pricing agreements across the acetate tow customer base, driving growth and returning adjusted EBIT margins and cash flow generation to acceptable performance levels; • commercialized Naia ™ staple fiber for spun yarns for apparel and home textiles; and • announced several high-profile brand adoptions, including a major multinational clothing company; an American retailer of outdoor clothing; and a sustainable women's clothing and accessories designer and manufacturer. 44 MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS On November 1, 2021, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries completed the sale of its rubber additives (including Crystex™ insoluble sulfur and Santoflex™ antidegradants) and other product lines and related assets and technology of the global tire additives business of its AFP segment. Additionally, on April 1, 2022, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries completed the sale of its adhesives resins business. The sale included hydrocarbon resins (including Eastman Impera™ tire resins), pure monomer resins, polyolefin polymers, rosins and dispersions, and oleochemical and fatty-acid based resins product lines, all of which were also previously part of the AFP segment. Beginning January 1, 2022, sales revenue and EBIT of the divested businesses are included in "Other". To maintain comparability of segment financial statement information, the Company has recast the segment financial information for the AFP segment and "Other" for each quarter from first quarter 2019 through fourth quarter 2021. For more information, see the dated April 18, 2022, and Part II, Item 5, "Other Information" of the for first quarter 2022. Costs related to growth initiatives, including circular economy, R&D costs, certain components of pension and other postretirement benefits, and other expenses and income not identifiable to an operating segment are not included in operating segment results for any of the periods presented and are included in "Other". In 2022, the Company recognized costs, net of insurance proceeds from the steam line incident, environmental and other costs from previously divested or non-operational sites, and adjustments to contingent considerations. In 2022 and 2021, the Company recognized severance and related costs as part of business improvement and cost reduction initiatives. For more information regarding asset impairments and restructuring charges and debt extinguishment costs see Note 16, "Asset Impairments and Restructuring Charges, Net" and Note 9, "Borrowings", respectively, to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 45 MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS SALES BY CUSTOMER LOCATION Sales revenue increased 1 percent due to increases in sales revenue across all regions, except Asia Pacific. Higher sales revenue was primarily due to higher selling prices (up 14 percent) partially offset by lower sales volume (down 11 percent, including the impact from divested businesses) and an unfavorable shift in foreign currency exchange rates (down 2 percent). The most significant increase in sales revenue occurred in the United States and Canada, primarily due to higher selling prices across all operating segments partially offset by lower sales volume from the divested businesses. See Note 20, "Segment and Regional Sales Information", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report for segment sales revenues by customer location. LIQUIDITY AND OTHER FINANCIAL INFORMATION Cash Flows The Company had cash and cash equivalents as follows: Cash flows from operations, cash and cash equivalents, and other sources of liquidity are expected to be available and sufficient to meet foreseeable cash requirements. However, the Company's cash flows from operations can be affected by numerous factors including risks associated with global operations, raw material availability and cost, demand for and pricing of Eastman's products, capacity utilization, and other factors described under "Risk Factors" in this MD&A. Management believes maintaining a financial profile that supports an investment grade credit rating is important to its long-term strategy and financial flexibility. Cash provided by operating activities decreased $644 million due to lower net earnings adjusted for both loss on divested businesses and mark-to-market pension and other postretirement benefit plans (gain) loss, net, as well as higher variable compensation payout. The use of cash in working capital also increased, driven by higher inventory due to continued inflationary pressures and lower sales volume. 46 MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Cash provided by investing activities was $392 million in 2022 compared with cash used in investing activities of $29 million in 2021 primarily due to proceeds from the sale of the adhesives resins business in 2022 greater than proceeds from the sale of the tire additives business in 2021. In addition, 2021 included cash used for acquisitions in the AFP and AM segments. Cash used in financing activities decreased $369 million primarily due to proceeds from borrowings including net increase in commercial paper partially offset by repayment of borrowings. Working Capital Management Eastman applies a proactive and disciplined approach to working capital management to optimize cash flow and to enable a full range of capital allocation options in support of the Company's strategy. Eastman expects to continue utilizing the programs described below to support operating cash flow consistent with the Company's past practices. The Company has an off balance sheet, uncommitted accounts receivable factoring program under which entire invoices may be sold, without recourse, to third-party financial institutions. Available capacity under these agreements, which the Company uses as a routine source of working capital funding, is dependent on the level of accounts receivable eligible to be sold and the financial institutions' willingness to purchase such receivables. The total amount of receivables sold in 2022 and 2021 were $2.5 billion and $1.2 billion, respectively. Based on the original terms of receivables sold for certain agreements and actual outstanding balance of receivables under service agreements, the Company estimates that $402 million and $239 million of these receivables would have been outstanding as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, had they not been sold under these factoring agreements. Eastman works with suppliers to optimize payment terms and conditions on accounts payable to enhance timing of working capital and cash flows. The Company has a voluntary supply chain finance program to provide suppliers with the opportunity to sell receivables due from Eastman to a participating financial institution. See Note 1, "Significant Accounting Policies", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report for additional information regarding both programs. Debt and Other Commitments Eastman has debt and other commitments for debt securities, credit facilities, interest payable, purchase obligations, operating leases, and other liabilities. A summary of the Company's debt and other commitment obligations as of December 31, 2022 for each of the next five years and beyond is included in Note 12, "Leases and Other Commitments", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report. At December 31, 2022, Eastman's borrowings totaled approximately $5.2 billion with various maturities. In second quarter 2022, the Company repaid $550 million of the 3.6% notes due August 2022. In third quarter 2022, the Company repaid the remaining $200 million principal of the 3.6% notes due August 2022 using available cash. In fourth quarter 2021, the Company repaid the 3.5% notes due December 2021 ($300 million principal) using available cash. For information about debt and related interest, see Note 9, "Borrowings", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report. For information about purchase obligations and operating leases, see Note 12, "Leases and Other Commitments", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report. Amounts in other liabilities represent the current estimated cash payments required to be made by the Company primarily for pension and other postretirement benefits, accrued compensation benefits, environmental loss contingency estimates, uncertain tax liabilities, and commodity and foreign exchange hedging in the periods indicated. Due to uncertainties in the timing of the effective settlement of tax positions with taxing authorities, management is unable to determine the timing of payments related to uncertain tax liabilities and these amounts are included in the "2028 and beyond" line item. 47 MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The amount and timing of pension and other postretirement benefit payments included in other liabilities is dependent upon interest rates, health care cost trends, actual returns on plan assets, retirement and attrition rates of employees, continuation or modification of the benefit plans, and other factors. Such factors can significantly impact the amount and timing of any future contributions by the Company. Excess contributions are periodically made by management in order to keep the plans' funded status above 80 percent under the funding provisions of the Pension Protection Act to avoid partial benefit restrictions on accelerated forms of payment. The Company's U.S. defined benefit pension plans are not currently under any benefit restrictions. See Note 11, "Retirement Plans", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report, for more information regarding pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. The resolution of uncertainties related to environmental matters included in other liabilities may have a material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated results of operations in the period recognized, however, because of the availability of legal defenses, the Company's preliminary assessment of actions that may be required, and, if applicable, the expected sharing of costs, management does not believe that the Company's liability for these environmental matters, individually or in the aggregate, will be material to the Company's consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. See "Environmental Costs" in Note 1, "Significant Accounting Policies", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report, and see Note 13, "Environmental Matters and Asset Retirement Obligations", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report for more information regarding outstanding environmental matters and asset retirement obligations. Credit Facility, Term Loan, and Commercial Paper Borrowings The Company has access to a $1.50 billion revolving credit agreement (the "Credit Facility") expiring December 2026. Borrowings under the Credit Facility are subject to interest at varying spreads above quoted market rates and a commitment fee is paid on the total unused commitment. The Credit Facility includes sustainability-linked pricing terms, provides available liquidity for general corporate purposes, and supports commercial paper borrowings. At December 31, 2022, the Company had no outstanding borrowings under the Credit Facility. At December 31, 2022, the Company's commercial paper borrowings were $326 million with a weighted average interest rate of 4.85%. In 2022, the Company borrowed $500 million under a five-year term loan agreement (the "2027 Term Loan") and used the proceeds from the 2027 Term Loan to pay down $500 million of the 3.6% notes due August 2022. The 2027 Term Loan had a variable interest rate of 5.55% as of December 31, 2022. In January 2023, the Company borrowed $300 million under a delayed draw two-year term loan (the "2024 Term Loan"), which was executed in fourth quarter 2022. Borrowings under the 2024 Term Loan are subject to interest at varying spreads above quoted market rates. The 2024 Term Loan contains the same customary covenants and events of default, including maintenance of certain financial ratios, as the Credit Facility, with payment of customary fees. The Credit Facility and 2027 Term Loan contain customary covenants, including requirements to maintain certain financial ratios, that determine the events of default, amounts available, and terms of borrowings. The Company was in compliance with all applicable covenants at December 31, 2022. The total amount of available borrowings under the Credit Facility was $1.50 billion as of December 31, 2022. For additional information regarding financial covenants under the Credit Facility, see Section 5.03 of the Credit Facility at . See Note 9, "Borrowings", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report. Net Debt (1) Includes a non-cash decrease from foreign currency exchange rates of $85 million and $113 million in 2022 and 2021, respectively. 48 MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Capital Expenditures Capital expenditures were $611 million and $555 million in 2022 and 2021, respectively. Capital expenditures in 2022 were primarily for the AM segment methanolysis plastic-to-plastic molecular recycling manufacturing facility in Kingsport, Tennessee, and other targeted growth initiatives and site modernization projects. The Company expects that 2023 capital spending will be approximately $700 million to $800 million, primarily for targeted growth initiatives, including the AM segment methanolysis plastic-to-plastic molecular recycling manufacturing facility and the Tritan ™ capacity expansion, both in Kingsport, Tennessee, and other targeted growth initiatives and site modernization projects. The Company had capital expenditures related to environmental protection and improvement of approximately $60 million and $38 million in 2022 and 2021, respectively. The Company does not currently expect near term environmental capital expenditures arising from requirements of environmental laws and regulations to materially impact the Company's planned level of annual capital expenditures for environmental control facilities. Dividends and Stock Repurchases In February 2018, the Company's Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $2 billion of the Company's outstanding common stock at such times, in such amounts, and on such terms, as determined by management to be in the best interest of the Company and its stockholders (the "2018 authorization"). The Company completed the 2018 authorization in May 2022, acquiring a total of 19,915,370 shares. In December 2021, the Company's Board of Directors authorized the additional repurchase of up to $2.5 billion of the Company's outstanding common stock at such times, in such amounts, and on such terms, as determined by management to be in the best interest of the Company and its stockholders (the "2021 authorization"). As of December 31, 2022, a total of 6,743,883 shares have been repurchased under the 2021 authorization for $635 million. Both dividends and share repurchases are key strategies employed by the Company to return value to its stockholders. In fourth quarter 2021, the Company entered into an accelerated share repurchase program ("2021 ASR") to purchase $500 million of the Company's common stock under the 2018 authorization. In exchange for upfront payment totaling $500 million, the financial institutions committed to deliver shares during the 2021 ASR's purchase period, which was settled in first quarter 2022. The total number of shares ultimately delivered was determined at the end of the applicable purchase period based on the volume-weighted average price of the Company's stock during the term of the 2021 ASR, less a discount. Approximately 80 percent of the expected shares repurchased under the 2021 ASR were delivered in fourth quarter 2021 and the remaining shares were delivered in first quarter 2022. In second quarter 2022, the Company entered into an accelerated share repurchase program ("2022 ASR") to purchase $500 million of the Company's common stock under the Board approved authorizations. In exchange for upfront payment totaling $500 million, the financial institutions committed to deliver shares during the 2022 ASR's purchase period, which was settled in third quarter 2022. The total number of shares ultimately delivered was determined at the end of the applicable purchase period based on the volume-weighted average price of the Company's stock during the term of the 2022 ASR, less a discount. During 2022, the Company repurchased 10,710,259 shares of common stock for $1,102 million, which included $100 million from the settlement of the 2021 ASR. The Board of Directors has declared a cash dividend of $0.79 per share during the first quarter of 2023, payable on April 10, 2023 to stockholders of record on March 15, 2023. Both dividends and share repurchases are key strategies employed by the Company to return value to its stockholders. INFLATION In 2022, the Company experienced rapid, broad-based inflation across its portfolio, including higher raw material and energy costs and higher distribution costs. The cost of raw materials is generally based on market prices, although derivative financial instruments are utilized, as appropriate, to mitigate short-term market price fluctuations. Management expects the volatility of raw material and energy costs to continue and the Company will continue to pursue pricing and hedging strategies and ongoing cost control initiatives to offset the effects. For additional information, see "Risk Factors" and "Summary by Operating Segments" in this MD&A, and Note 10, "Derivative and Non-Derivative Financial Instruments", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8, of this Annual Report. 49 MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS For information regarding the impact of recently issued accounting standards, see Note 1, "Significant Accounting Policies", to the Company's consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report. RISK FACTORS In addition to factors described elsewhere in this Annual Report, the following are the material known factors, risks, and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements made in this Annual Report and elsewhere from time to time. See "Forward-Looking Statements". The risks described below should be carefully considered, some of which have manifested and any of which may occur in the future, in addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report before making an investment decision with respect to any of the Company's securities. The following risk factors are not necessarily presented in the order of importance. In addition, there may be other factors, not currently known to the Company, which could, in the future, materially adversely affect the Company, its business, financial condition, or results of operations. This and other related disclosures made by the Company in this Annual Report, and elsewhere from time to time, represent management's best judgment as of the date the information is given. The Company does not undertake responsibility for updating any of such information, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise, except as required by law. Investors are advised, however, to consult any further public Company disclosures (such as in filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in Company press releases, or in other public Company presentations) on related subjects. Risks Related to Global Economy and Industry Conditions Continued uncertain conditions in the global economy, labor market, and financial markets could negatively impact the Company. The Company's business and operating results were impacted by the last global recession, and its related impacts, such as the credit market crisis, declining consumer and business confidence, fluctuating commodity prices, volatile exchange rates, and other challenges that impacted the global economy. Similarly, as a company which operates and sells products worldwide, uncertainty in the global economy, labor market, and capital markets (including impacts from inflation, higher interest rates, the continuing COVID-19 pandemic and subsequent changes and disruptions in business, political, and economic conditions) have impacted and may adversely impact demand for and the costs of certain Eastman products and accordingly results of operations, and may adversely impact the Company's financial condition and cash flows and ability to access the credit and capital markets under attractive rates and terms and negatively impact the Company's liquidity or ability to pursue certain growth initiatives. Both domestic and international markets experienced significant inflationary pressures in 2022 and inflation rates in the U.S., as well as in other countries in which the Company operates, are currently expected to continue at elevated levels for the near-term. In addition, the Federal Reserve in the U.S. and other central banks in various countries have raised, and may again raise, interest rates in response to concerns about inflation, which, coupled with reduced government spending and volatility in financial markets, may have the effect of further increasing economic uncertainty and heightening these risks. Interest rate increases or other government actions taken to reduce inflation could also result in recessionary pressures in many parts of the world. Volatility in costs for strategic raw material and energy commodities or disruption in the supply and transportation of these commodities and in transportation of company products could adversely impact the Company's financial results. Eastman is reliant on certain strategic raw material and energy commodities for its operations and utilizes certain risk management tools to mitigate market fluctuations in raw material and energy costs. The cost and availability of these raw materials and energy commodities can be adversely impacted by factors such as business and economic conditions, anomalous severe weather events, natural disasters, the global COVID-19 pandemic, plant interruptions, supply chain and transportation disruptions (related to the global COVID-19 pandemic and otherwise), changes in laws or regulations, levels of unemployment and inflation, currency exchange rates, higher interest rates, war or other outbreak of hostilities or terrorism (such as the ongoing Russia/Ukraine conflict), and breakdown or degradation of transportation and supply chain infrastructure. 50 MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Recent inflationary pressures affecting the general economy, energy markets, and certain raw materials have increased the Company's operating costs. For example, inflationary pressures in 2022 have resulted in increased costs for energy and feedstocks such as natural gas, paraxylene, vinyl acetate monomer, polyvinyl alcohol, and others. While inflation in these and other inputs has increased operating costs, the Company has undertaken efforts to offset many of these costs through pricing actions, including contract terms and some surcharges, contracts leveraged to multiple market indices, alternative supply arrangements, and hedging strategies, however, these risk mitigation measures do not eliminate all exposure to market fluctuations. In addition to these inflationary pressures, the Company has experienced certain supply chain challenges impacting its ability to secure certain raw materials and timely distribute products to customers. For example, the global supply chain disruptions have impacted the availability of certain raw materials such as ammonia, methanol, and toluene. To mitigate the effects of these and other supply chain disruptions, the Company has implemented multifaceted sourcing, warehousing, and delivery strategies to focus on building resilient and redundant supply positions, and minimizing disruptions to customers by using alternate shipping methods to expedite delivery times. The Company's geographic footprint has also helped reduce exposure to localized risks. Prolonged periods of heightened inflation or continued or worsening supply chain disruptions could have a material, adverse impact on the Company's financial performance and results of operations. The Company's substantial global operations subject it to risks of doing business in other countries, including U.S. and non-U.S. trade relations, which could adversely impact its business, financial condition, and results of operations. More than half of Eastman's sales for 2022 were to customers outside of North America. The Company expects sales from international markets to continue to represent a significant portion of its sales. Also, a significant portion of the Company's manufacturing capacity is located outside of the United States. Accordingly, the Company's business is subject to risks related to the differing legal, political, cultural, social and regulatory requirements, and economic conditions of many jurisdictions including the unique geographic impacts of the global COVID-19 pandemic. Fluctuations in exchange rates may impact product demand and may adversely impact the profitability in U.S. dollars of products and services provided in foreign countries. In addition, the U.S. and foreign countries have imposed and may impose additional taxes or otherwise tax Eastman's foreign income (see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Estimates - Income Taxes" in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report). For example, the Organization for Economic Development has proposed the introduction of a global minimum tax. While details around the timing and impact of a global minimum tax are uncertain, if enacted, the Company may experience an increase in tax obligations in jurisdictions it conducts business. The U.S. and foreign countries may also adopt or increase restrictions on foreign trade or investment, including currency exchange controls, tariffs or other taxes, or limitations on imports or exports (including recent and proposed changes in U.S. trade policy and resulting retaliatory actions by other countries, including China, which have recently reduced and which may increasingly reduce demand for and increase costs of impacted products or result in U.S.-based trade counterparties limiting trade with U.S.-based companies or non-U.S. customers limiting their purchases from U.S.-based companies). Certain legal and political risks are also inherent in the operation of a company with Eastman's global scope. For example, it may be more difficult for Eastman to enforce its agreements or collect receivables through foreign legal systems, and the laws of some countries may not protect the Company's intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the U.S. Failure of foreign countries to have laws to protect Eastman's intellectual property rights or an inability to effectively enforce such rights in foreign countries could result in loss of valuable proprietary information. There is also risk that foreign governments may nationalize private enterprises in certain countries where Eastman operates. Social and cultural norms in certain countries may not support compliance with Eastman's corporate policies including those that require compliance with substantive laws and regulations. Also, changes in general economic and political conditions in countries where Eastman operates are a risk to the Company's financial performance. As Eastman continues to operate its business globally, its success will depend, in part, on its ability to anticipate and effectively manage and mitigate these and other related risks. There can be no assurance that the consequences of these and other factors relating to its multinational operations will not have an adverse impact on Eastman's business, financial condition, or results of operations. 51 MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Risks Related to the Company's Business and Strategy The Company's business is subject to operating risks common to chemical and specialty materials manufacturing businesses, including cybersecurity risks, any of which could disrupt manufacturing operations or related infrastructure and adversely impact results of operations. As a global specialty materials company, Eastman's business is subject to operating risks common to chemical manufacturing, storage, handling, and transportation, including explosions, fires, inclement weather, natural disasters, mechanical failure, unscheduled downtime, transportation and supply chain interruptions, remediation, chemical spills, and discharges or releases of toxic or hazardous substances or gases. Significant limitation on the Company's ability to manufacture products due to disruption of manufacturing operations or related infrastructure could have a material adverse impact on the Company's sales revenue, costs, results of operations, credit ratings, and financial condition. Disruptions could occur due to internal factors such as computer or equipment malfunction (accidental or intentional), operator error, or process failures; or external factors such as supply chain disruption, computer or equipment malfunction at third-party service providers, natural disasters, changes in laws or regulations, war or other outbreak of hostilities or terrorism, cyber-attacks, or breakdown or degradation of transportation and supply chain infrastructure used for delivery of supplies to the Company or for delivery of products to customers. The Company has in the past experienced cyber-attacks and breaches of its computer information systems, although none of these have had a material adverse impact on the Company's operations and financial results. While the Company remains committed to managing cyber related risk, no assurances can be provided that any future disruptions due to these, or other, circumstances will not have a material impact on operations (see "Business - Eastman Chemical Company General Information - Information Security" in Part I, Item 1 of this Annual Report). Unplanned disruptions of manufacturing operations or related infrastructure could be significant in scale and could negatively impact operations, neighbors, and the environment, and could have a negative impact on the Company's results of operations. Growth initiatives may not achieve desired business or financial objectives and may require significant resources in addition to or different from those available or in excess of those estimated or budgeted for such initiatives. Eastman continues to identify and pursue growth opportunities through both organic and inorganic initiatives, such as Eastman's sustainable innovation initiatives which aim to develop a more "circular economy." These and other growth opportunities include development and commercialization or licensing of innovative new products and technologies and related employee leadership, expertise, skill development and retention, expansion into new markets and geographic regions, alliances, ventures, and acquisitions that complement and extend the Company's portfolio of businesses and capabilities. Such initiatives are necessarily constrained by availability and development of additional resources, including development, attraction, and retention of employee leadership, application development, and sales and marketing talent and capabilities. There can be no assurance that such innovation, development and commercialization or licensing efforts, investments, or acquisitions and alliances (including integration of acquired businesses) will receive necessary governmental or regulatory approvals, or result in financially successful commercialization of products, or acceptance by existing or new customers, or successful entry into new markets or otherwise achieve their underlying strategic business objectives or that they will be beneficial to the Company's results of operations. There also can be no assurance that capital projects for growth efforts can be completed within the time or at the costs projected due, among other things, to demand for and availability of construction materials and labor and obtaining regulatory approvals and operating permits and reaching agreement on terms of key agreements and arrangements with potential suppliers and customers. Any such delays or cost overruns or the inability to obtain such approvals or to reach such agreements on acceptable terms could negatively impact the returns from any proposed or current investments and projects. 52 MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Significant acquisitions or divestitures could expose the Company to risks and uncertainties, the occurrence of any of which could materially adversely affect the Company's business, financial condition, and results of operations. While acquisitions and divestitures have been and continue to be a part of Eastman's strategy, acquisitions of large companies and acquisitions or divestitures of businesses subject the Company to a number of risks and uncertainties, the occurrence of any of which could have a material adverse effect on Eastman. These include, but are not limited to, the possibility that the actual and projected future financial performance of the acquired or remaining business may be significantly worse than expected and that, in the case of an acquired business and as reported in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Critical Accounting Estimates - Impairment of Long-Lived Assets - Goodwill" in Part II, Item 7 of this Annual Report, the carrying values of goodwill, indefinite-lived intangible assets, and certain assets from acquisitions may, as has been the case for certain acquired assets, be impaired resulting in non-cash charges to future earnings and, in the case of a divested business, the divestiture could reduce Eastman's revenue and, potentially, margins and increase its costs and liabilities in the form of transition costs and retained liabilities from the operations divested, including environmental liabilities; that significant additional indebtedness may constrain the Company's ability to access the credit and capital markets at attractive interest rates and favorable terms, which may negatively impact the Company's liquidity or ability to pursue certain growth initiatives; that the Company may not be able to achieve the cost, revenue, tax, or other "synergies" expected from any acquisition, or that there may be delays in achieving any such synergies; that management's time and effort may be dedicated to the integration of the new business or specific assets or product lines or separation of the divested business or specific assets or product lines resulting in a loss of focus on the successful operation of the Company's legacy businesses; and that the Company may be required to expend significant additional resources in order to integrate any acquired business or specific assets or product lines into Eastman or separate any divested business or specific assets or product lines from Eastman, or that the integration or separation efforts will not achieve the expected benefits. Risks Related to Regulatory Changes and Compliance Legislative, regulatory, or voluntary actions, including associated with physical impacts of climate change, could increase the Company's future health, safety, and environmental compliance costs. Eastman, its facilities, and its businesses are subject to complex health, safety, and environmental laws, regulations, and related voluntary actions, both in the U.S. and internationally, which require and will continue to require significant expenditures to remain in compliance with such laws, regulations, and voluntary actions. The Company's accruals for such costs and associated liabilities are subject to changes in estimates on which the accruals are based. For example, any amount accrued for environmental matters reflects the Company's assumptions about remediation requirements at the contaminated site, the nature of the remedy, the outcome of discussions with regulatory agencies and other potentially responsible parties at multi-party sites, and the number of and financial viability of other potentially responsible parties. Changes in the estimates on which the accruals are based, unanticipated government enforcement action, or changes in health, safety, environmental, chemical control regulations and actions, and testing requirements could result in higher costs. Specifically, while the Company's sustainability and "circular economy" innovation initiatives are sources of competitive strength (see "Business - Corporate Overview - Business Strategy - Circular Economy and Sustainability" in Part I, Item 1 of this Annual Report), future changes in legislation and regulation and related voluntary actions associated with physical impacts of climate change may increase the likelihood that the Company's manufacturing facilities will in the future be impacted by carbon requirements, regulation of greenhouse gas emissions, and energy policy, and may result in capital expenditures, increases in costs for raw materials and energy, limitations on raw material and energy source and supply choices, and other direct and indirect compliance or other costs or consequences including decreased demand for products related to carbon-based energy sources or increased demand for goods that result in lower emissions than competing products and reputational risk resulting from operations with greenhouse gas emissions. See "Business - Eastman Chemical Company General Information - Compliance With Environmental and Other Government Regulations" in Part I, Item 1 of this Annual Report. 53