********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Investing in our securities involves risks. You should carefully consider, among other matters, the factors set forth below and the other information in this report. The Company’s risk factors set forth below are not the only risks facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to management or that management currently deems immaterial also may materially, adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition or operating results. We may amend or supplement the risk factors set forth below from time to time by other reports we file with the SEC. Business and Operational Risks We Operate in Businesses That Are Subject to Competitive Pressures That Could Affect Prices or Demand for Our Products Our businesses operate in markets that are highly competitive and potentially volatile, and we compete on the basis of product performance, quality, service and/or price across the industries and markets served. Our businesses are largely dependent on the current and future business environment, including capital and consumer spending. A significant element of our competitive strategy is to deliver solutions to our customers by manufacturing high-quality products at the best relevant global cost. Various companies compete with us in one or more product lines and the number of competitors varies by product line. Some of our competitors have substantially greater sales, assets and financial resources than our Company and we also compete with many smaller companies. Competitive pressures could adversely affect prices or customer demand for our products, impacting our sales or profit margins, and/or resulting in a loss of market share. 9 Our Operating Results Depend in Part on Continued Successful Research, Development and Marketing of New and/or Improved Products and Services, and There Can Be No Assurance That We Will Continue to Successfully Introduce New Products and Services The success of new and improved products and services depends on their initial and continued acceptance by our customers. Our businesses are affected by varying degrees of technological change and corresponding shifts in customer demand, which result in unpredictable product transitions, shortened life cycles and increased importance of bein g first to market with new products and services. We may experience difficulties or delays in the research, development, production and/or marketing of new products and services which may negatively impact our operating results and prevent us from recouping or realizing a return on the investments required to continue to bring new products and services to market. We must anticipate and respond to market and technological changes driven by broader trends such as decarbonization and electrification efforts in response to climate change. Market growth from the use of cleaner energy sources, as well as emissions management, energy efficiency, lower greenhouse gas refrigerant usage, and decarbonization efforts are likely to depend in part on technologies not yet deployed or widely adopted today. We may not adequately innovate or position our businesses for the adoption of technologies such as battery storage solutions, hydrogen use cases in industry, mobility, and power generation, enhanced electrical grid demand management, carbon capture and sequestration or advanced nuclear power. These trends and the relative competitiveness of our product and service offerings will continue to be impacted by uncertain factors such as the pace of technological developments and related cost considerations, the levels of economic growth in different markets around the world and the adoption of climate change-related policies such as carbon taxes, greenhouse gas emission reductions, incentives or mandates for particular types of energy, or policies that impact the availability of financing for certain types of projects. If We Are Unable to Defend or Protect Our Intellectual Property Rights, the Company's Competitive Position Could Be Adversely Affected The Company's intellectual property rights are important to its business and include numerous patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and other confidential information. This intellectual property may be subject to challenge, infringement, invalidation or circumvention by third parties. Despite extensive security measures, our intellectual property may be subject to misappropriation through unauthorized access of our information technology systems, employee theft, or other acts of industrial espionage. Should the Company be unable to adequately defend or protect its intellectual property, it may suffer competitive harm. We Engage in Acquisitions and Divestitures, Which Are Subject to Domestic and Foreign Regulatory Requirements, and May Encounter Difficulties in Integrating and Separating These Businesses and Therefore We May Not Realize the Anticipated Benefits We regularly seek growth through strategic acquisitions as well as evaluate our portfolio for potential divestitures. These activities require favorable environments to execute these transactions, and we may encounter difficulties in obtaining the necessary regulatory approvals in both domestic and foreign jurisdictions. In 2022 and in past years, we have made various acquisitions, including our majority stake in Aspen Technology, Inc., and entered into joint venture arrangements intended to complement or expand our business, and may continue to do so in the future. The success of these transactions will depend on our ability to integrate assets and personnel acquired in these transactions and to cooperate with our strategic partners. We may encounter difficulties in integrating acquisitions with our operations as well as separating divested businesses, and in managing strategic investments. Furthermore, we may not realize the degree, or timing, of benefits we anticipate when we first enter into a transaction. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our Planned Sale of a Majority Stake in the Climate Technologies Business May Not Be Completed Within the Currently Contemplated Time Frame, With the Expected Terms or Costs, and May Not Achieve the Intended Benefits We make no assurance regarding the terms, timing, costs or benefits anticipated from the planned sale of a majority stake in the Climate Technologies Business. Unforeseen developments, including possible delays in obtaining various tax, regulatory and other approvals, could delay the proposed transaction, or cause it to occur on terms and conditions that are less favorable, or at a higher cost, than expected. 10 Further, we may not realize some or all of the anticipated strategic, financial or other benefits of the planned sale. Moreover, after the transaction is completed, the Company will be smaller and less diversified, with a narrower business focus, including a focus on software, innovation and disruptive technologies, and may encounter more volatility and be more vulnerable to changing market conditions, which could adversely affect our business. We also may not be able to redeploy the net proceeds from our divestitures on the timing or with the benefits anticipated. We Use a Variety of Raw Materials and Components in Our Businesses, and Significant Shortages or Price Increases Could Increase Our Operating Costs and Adversely Impact the Competitive Positions of Our P roducts Our major requirements for raw materials include steel, copper, cast iron, electronics, rare earth metals, aluminum, brass and, to a lesser extent, plastics and petroleum-based chemicals. The Company seeks multiple sources of supply for each of its major requirements in order to avoid significant dependence on any one or a few suppliers. However, the supply of materials or other items could be disrupted by natural disasters, a health epidemic or pandemic, or other events. Significant shortages or price increases could impact the prices our affected businesses charge, their operating costs and the competitive position of their products and services, which could adversely affect our results of operations. While we monitor market prices of the commodities we require and attempt to mitigate price exposure through hedging activities, this risk could adversely affect our operating results. Our Operations Depend on Production Facilities Throughout the World, a Majority of Which Are Located Outside the United States and Subject to Increased Risks of Disrupted Production, Causing Delays in Shipments and Loss of Customers and Revenue We manage businesses with manufacturing facilities worldwide, a majority of which are located outside the United States, and also source certain materials globally. Emerging market sales represent over one-third of total sales and serving a global customer base requires that we place more materials sourcing and production in emerging markets to capitalize on market opport unities and maintain a best-cost position. Our and our suppliers’ non-U.S. production facilities and operations could be disrupted by weather and natural disaster (including the potential effects of climate change), labor strife, war (including the Russia-Ukraine conflict), political unrest, terrorist activity or public health concerns such as an epidemic or pandemic, particularly in emerging countries that are not well-equip ped to handle such occurrences. Our manufacturing facilities abroad are dependent on the stability of governments and business conditions and may be more susceptible to changes in laws, policies and regulations in host countries, as well as economic and political upheaval, than our domestic facilities. These facilities face increased risks of nationalization as well as operational disruptions which could cause delays in shipments of products and the loss of sales and customers, and insurance proceeds may not adequately compensate us. Access to Funding Through the Capital Markets is Essential to the Execution of Our Business Plan, and if We Are Unable to Maintain Such Access We Could Experience a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business and Financial Results Our ability to invest in our businesses, make strategic acquisitions and refinance maturing debt obligations requires access to the capital markets and sufficient bank credit lines to support short-term borrowings. Volatility in the capital markets may increase costs associated with issuing commercial paper or other debt instruments, or affect the Company’s ability to access those markets. If we are unable to continue to access the capital markets, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Additionally, if our customers, suppliers or financial institutions are unable to access the capital markets to meet their commitments to the Company, our business could be adversely impacted. Our Business Success Depends on the Ability to Attract, Develop and Retain Key Personnel Our success depends in part on the efforts and abilities of our management and key employees. Their skills, experience and industry knowledge significantly benefit our operations and performance. The failure to attract, develop and retain highly qualified personnel could adversely affect our ability to succeed in our human capital goals and priorities as well as negatively impact our business and operating results. 11 Security and/or Data Privacy Breaches, or Disruptions of Our Information Technology Systems Could Adversely Affect Our Business The Company relies on information technology networks and systems, including the internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes and activities. These technology networks and systems may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to failures during the process of upgrading or replacing software, databases or components; power outages; telecommunications or system failures; terrorist attacks; natural disasters; employee error or malfeasance; server or cloud provider breaches; and computer viruses or cyberattacks. Cybersecurity threats and incidents can range from uncoordinated individual attempts to gain unauthorized access to information technology networks and systems to more sophisticated and targeted measures, known as advanced persistent threats, directed at the Company, its products, its customers and/or its third-party service providers. Despite the implementation of cybersecurity measures (including access controls, data encryption, vulnerability assessments, continuous monitoring, and maintenance of backup and protective systems), the Company’s information technology systems may still be vulnerable to cybersecurity threats and other electronic security breaches. It is possible for such vulnerabilities to remain undetected for an extended period. In addition, it is possible a security breach could result in theft of trade secrets or other intellectual property or disclosure of confidential customer, supplier or employee information. Should the Company be unable to prevent security breaches or other damage to our information technology systems, disruptions could have an adverse effect on our operations, as well as expose the Company to litigation, liability or penalties under privacy laws, increased cybersecurity protection costs, reputational damage and product failure. In addition, we must comply with increasingly complex and rigorous regulatory standards enacted to protect business and personal data in the U.S. and elsewhere. Compliance with privacy and localization laws and regulations increases operational complexity. Failure to comply with these regulatory standards could subject us to fines and penalties, as well as legal and reputational risks, including proceedings against the Company by governmental entities or others. Our Products and Services are Highly Sophisticated and Specialized, and a Major Product Failure or Similar Event Caused by Defects, Cybersecurity Incidents or Other Failures, Could Adversely Affect Our Business, Reputation, Financial Position and Results of Operations We produce highly sophisticated products and provide specialized services that incorporate or use complex or leading-edge technology, including both hardware and software. Many of our products and services, including measurement and analytical instrumentation, industrial valves and equipment, and process control systems, are integrated and used in complex process, hybrid and discrete manufacturing environments. As a result, the impact of a catastrophic product failure or similar event could be significant. While we have built operational processes to ensure that our product design, manufacture, performance and servicing meet rigorous quality standards, there can be no assurance that we or our customers or other third parties will not experience operational process or product failures and other problems, including through manufacturing or design defects, process or other failures of contractors or third-party suppliers, cybersecurity incidents or other intentional acts, that could result in potential product, safety, regulatory or environmental risks. Cybersecurity incidents aimed at the software embedded in our products could lead to third-party claims resulting from damages caused by our product failures, and this risk is enhanced by the increasingly connected nature of our products. The potential consequences of a material cybersecurity incident include financial loss, reputational damage, litigation with third parties, diminution in the value of our investment in research, development and engineering, and increased cybersecurity protection and remediation costs due to the increasing sophistication and proliferation of threats, which in turn could adversely affect our competitiveness and results of operations. Industry and General Economic Risks The Coronavirus (COVID-19) Outbreak Has Adversely Impacted our Business and Could in the Future Have a Material Adverse Impact on our Business, Results of Operation, Financial Condition and Liquidity, the Nature and Extent of Which is Highly Uncertain The global outbreak of the coronavirus (COVID-19) has significantly increased economic, demand and operational uncertainty. We have global operations, customers and suppliers, including in countries most impacted by COVID-19. Authorities around the world have taken a variety of measures to slow the spread of COVID-19, including travel bans or restrictions, increased border controls or closures, quarantines, shelter-in-place orders and business shutdowns (particularly in China where shutdowns continue) and such authorities may impose additional restrictions. We have also taken actions to protect our employees and to mitigate the spread of COVID-19. Evolving 12 government plans around the world create uncertainty that may impact our employees and result in labor shortages and unforeseen costs, which could negatively affect our results. These actions have and may continue to impact our employees, customers and suppliers, and future developments could cause further disruptions to Emerson due to the interconnected nature of our business relationships. The impact of COVID-19 on the global economy and our customers, as well as volatility in commodity markets (including oil prices) could result in further disruptions to our manufacturing operations, including higher rates of employee absenteeism, and supply chain, which could continue to negatively impact our ability to meet customer demand. Additionally, the potential deterioration and volatility of credit and financial markets could limit our ability to obtain external financing. The extent to which COVID-19 will impact our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity is highly uncertain and will depend on future developments, including the spread and duration of the virus and any variants, potential actions taken by governmental authorities, and how quickly economic conditions stabilize and recover. Our Substantial Sales Both in the U.S. and Abroad Subject Us to Economic Risk as Our Results of Operations May Be Adversely Affected by Changes in Government Regulations and Policies and Currency Fluctuations We sell, manufacture, engineer and purchase products globally, with significant sales in both mature and emerging markets. We expect sales in non-U.S. markets to continue to represent a significant portion of our total sales. Our U.S. and international operations subject the Company to changes in government regulations and policies in a large number of jurisdictions around the world, including those related to trade, investments, taxation, exchange controls and repatriation of earnings. Changes in laws or policies governing the terms of foreign trade, trade restrictions or barriers, tariffs or taxes, trade protection measures, and retaliatory countermeasures, including on imports from countries where we manufacture products, could adversely impact our business and financial results. In addition, changes in the relative values of currencies occur from time to time and have affected our operating results and could do so in the future. While we monitor our exchange rate exposures and attempt to mitigate this exposure through hedging activities, this risk could adversely affect our operating results. Recessions, Adverse Market Conditions or Downturns in End Markets We Serve May Negatively Affect Our Operations In th e past, our operations have been exposed to significant volatility due to changes in general economic conditions or consumer preferences, recessions or adverse conditions in the end markets we serve. In the future, similar changes could adversely impact overall sales, operating results (including potential impairment charges for goodwill or other long-lived assets) and cash flows. Moreover, during economic downturns we may undertake more extensive restructuring actions, including workforce reductions, global facility consolidations, centralization of certain business support activities, and other cost reduction initiatives, and incur higher costs. As these plans and actions can be complex, the anticipated operational improvements, efficiencies and other benefits might be delayed or not realized. Legal and Regulatory Risks Changes in Tax Rates, Laws or Regulations and the Resolution of Tax Disputes Could Adversely Impact Our Financial Results As a global company, we are subject to taxation in the U.S. and numerous non-U.S. jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required to determine our consolidated income tax provision and related liabilities. The Company’s effective tax rate, cash flows and operating results could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with different statutory tax rates, as well as by changes in the local tax laws and regulations, or the interpretations thereof. In addition, the Company’s tax returns are subject to regular review and audit by U.S. and non-U.S. tax authorities. While we believe our tax provisions are appropriate, the final outcome of tax audits or disputes could result in adjustments to the Company’s tax liabilities, which could adversely affect our financial results. Our Reputation, Ability To Do Business and Results of Operations Could Be Impaired By Improper Conduct By Any of Our Employees, Agents or Business Partners We are subject to regulation under a wide variety of U.S. federal and state and non-U.S. laws, regulations and policies, including laws related to anti-corruption, anti-bribery, export and import compliance, anti-trust and money laundering, due to our global operations. In particular, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act 13 and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business, and we operate in many parts of the world that have experienced government corruption to some degree. We cannot provide assurance our internal controls will always protect us from the improper conduct of our employees, agents and business partners. Any such violation of law or improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal investigations in the U.S. and other jurisdictions, could lead to substantial civil or criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties and related shareholder lawsuits, could lead to increased costs of compliance and could damage our reputation, our business and results of operations. We Are Subject to Litigation and Environmental Regulations That Could Adversely Impact Our Operating Results We are, and may in the future be, a party to a number of legal proceedings and claims, including those involving intellectual property, product liability (including asbestos) and environmental matters, several of which claim, or may in the future claim, si gnificant damages. Given the inherent uncertainty of litigation, we can offer no assurance that existing litigation or a future adverse development will not have a material adverse impact. We also are subject to various laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and the discharge of materials into the environment, and we could incur substantial costs as a result of the noncompliance with or liability for cleanup or other costs or damages under environmental laws. In addition, increased public awareness and concern regarding global climate change may result in more international, federal, and/or state or other stakeholder requirements or expectations that could result in more restrictive or expansive standards, such as stricter limits on greenhouse gas emissions or more prescriptive reporting of environmental, social, and governance metrics. There continues to be a lack of consistent climate change legislation and standards, which creates economic and regulatory uncertainty. While the Company has adopted certain voluntary targets, environmental laws, regulations or standards may be changed, accelerated or adopted and impose significant operational restrictions and compliance requirements upon the Company, its products or customers, which could negatively impact the Company’s business, capital expenditures, results of operations, financial condition and competitive position. Increasing Interest and Expectations with Respect to Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) Matters by Our Various Stakeholders Could Adversely Affect Our Business and Operating Results In response to growing customer, investor, employee, governmental, and other stakeholder interest in our ESG practices, we have increased reporting of our ESG programs and performance and have established and announced our aspirational purpose, causes, values, and related commitments, goals or targets, including those regarding sustainability, greenhouse gas emissions, our net zero ambition, and diversity, equity and inclusion. Our ability to achieve such goals and aspirations is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, many of which rely on the collective efforts of others or may be outside of our control.  Such risks include, among others, the availability and adoption of new or additional technologies that reduce carbon or eliminate energy sources on a commercially reasonable basis, competing and evolving economic, policy and regulatory factors, the ability of suppliers and others to meet our sustainability, diversity and other goals, the availability of qualified candidates in our labor markets and our ability to recruit and retain diverse talent, and customer engagement in our goals. There may be times where actual outcomes vary from those aimed for or expected and sometimes challenges may delay or block progress.  As a result, we cannot offer assurances that the results reflected or implied by any such statements will be realized or achieved. Moreover, standards and expectations for ESG matters continue to evolve and may be subject to varying interpretations, which may result in significant revisions to our goals or progress.  In addition, certain of our product offerings may become less attractive as standards evolve.  A failure or perceived failure to meet our aspirational purpose, causes, values, and related commitments, goals or targets within the timelines we announce, or at all, or a failure or perceived failure to meet evolving stakeholders expectations and standards, could damage our reputation, adversely affect employee retention or engagement or support from our various stakeholders and could subject us to government enforcement actions or penalties and private litigation. Such outcomes could negatively impact the Company’s business, capital expenditures, results of operations, financial condition and competitive position.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

Safe Harbor Statement This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains various forward-looking statements and includes assumptions concerning Emerson's operations, future results and prospects. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Emerson undertakes no obligation to update any such statements to reflect later developments. In connection with the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Emerson provides the cautionary statements set forth under Item 1A - “Risk Factors,” which are hereby incorporated by reference and identify important economic, political and technological factors, among others, changes in which could cause the actual results or events to differ materially from those set forth in or implied by the forward-looking statements and related assumptions. Non-GAAP Financial Measures To supplement the Company’s financial information presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP), management periodically uses certain “non-GAAP financial measures,” as such term is defined in Regulation G under SEC rules, to clarify and enhance understanding of past performance and prospects for the future. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company’s operating performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes or includes amounts that are included in or excluded from the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP. For exa mple, non-GAAP measures may exclude the impact of certain items such as acquisitions or divestitures, amortization of intangibles, restructuring costs, discrete taxes, ch anges in reporting segments, gains, losses and impairments, or items outside of management’s control, such as foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Management believes that the following non-GAAP financial measures provide investors and analysts useful insight into the Company’s financial position and operating performance. Any non-GAAP measure provided should be viewed in addition to, and not as an alternative to, the most directly comparable measure determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, as identified in italics below. Further, the calculation of these non-GAAP financial measures may differ from the calculation of similarly titled financial measures presented by other companies and therefore may not be comparable among companies. Underlying sales, which exclude the impact of acquisitions, divestitures and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates during the periods presented, are provided to facilitate relevant period-to-period comparisons of sales growth by excluding those items that impact overall comparability (U.S. GAAP measure: net sales ). Operating profit (defined as net sales less cost of sales and selling, general and administrative expenses) and operating profit margin (defined as operating profit divided by net sales) are indicative of short-term operational performance and ongoing profitability. Management closely monitors operating profit and operating profit margin of each business to evaluate past performance and actions required to improve profitability. EBIT (defined as earnings 17 before deductions for interest expense, net and income taxes) and total segment EBIT, and EBIT margin (defined as EBIT divided by net sales) and total segment EBIT margin, are financial measures that exclude the impact of financing on the capital structure and income taxes . Adjusted EBITA and adjusted segment EBITA (defined as earnings excluding interest expense, net, income taxes, intangibles amortization expense, restructuring expense, first year purchase accounting related items and transaction fees, and certain gains, losses or impairments) and adjusted EBITA margin and adjusted segment EBITA margin (defined as adjusted EBITA divided by net sales) are measures used by management to evaluate the Company's operational performance, as they exclude the impact of acquisition-related investments and non-operational items. EBITDA (defined as EBIT excluding depreciation and amortization) and EBITDA margin (defined as EBITDA divided by net sales) are also used as measures of the Company's current operating performance, as they exclude the impact of capital and acquisition-related investments. All of these are commonly used financial measures utilized by management to evaluate performance (U.S. GAAP measures: pretax earnings or pretax profit margin, segment earnings or segment margin ). Earnings, earnings per share, return on common stockholders’ equity and return on total capital excluding certain gains and losses, impairments, restructuring costs, impacts of acquisitions or divestitures, amortization of intangibles, discrete taxes, or other items provide additional insight into the underlying, ongoing operating performance of the Company and facilitate period-to-period comparisons by excluding the earnings impact of these items. Management believes that presenting earnings, earnings per share, return on common stockholders' equity and return on total capital excluding these items is more representative of the Company’s operational performance and may be more useful for investors (U.S. GAAP measures: earnings, earnings per share, return on common stockholders’ equity, return on total capital ). Free cash flow (operating cash flow less capital expenditures) and free cash flow as a percent of net sales are indicators of the Company’s cash generating capabilities, and dividends as a percent of free cash flow is an indicator of the Company's ability to support its dividend, after considering investments in capital assets which are necessary to maintain and enhance existing operations. The determination of operating cash flow adds back noncash depreciation expense to earnings and thereby does not reflect a charge for necessary capital expenditures. Management believes that free cash flow, free cash flow as a percent of net sales and dividends as a percent of free cash flow are useful to both management and investors as measures of the Company’s ability to generate cash and support its dividend (U.S. GAAP measures: operating cash flow, operating cash flow as a percent of net sales, dividends as a percent of operating cash flow ). 18 FINANCIAL REVIEW Report of Management The Company's management is responsible for the integrity and accuracy of the financial statements. Management believes that the financial statements for each of the years in the three-year period ended September 30, 2022 have been prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles appropriate in the circumstances. In preparing the financial statements, management makes informed judgments and estimates where necessary to reflect the expected effects of events and transactions that have not been completed. The Company's disclosure controls and procedures ensure that material information required to be disclosed is recorded, processed, summarized and communicated to management and reported within the required time periods. In meeting its responsibility for the reliability of the financial statements, management relies on a system of internal accounting controls. This system is designed to provide reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded and transactions are executed in accordance with management's authorization and recorded properly to permit the preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Although the design of this system recognizes that errors or irregularities may occur, management believes that the Company's internal accounting controls provide reasonable assurance that errors or irregularities that could be material to the financial statements are prevented or would be detected within a timely period. The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors, which is composed solely of independent directors, is responsible for overseeing the Company's financial reporting process. The Audit Committee meets with management and the Company's internal auditors periodically to review the work of each and to monitor the discharge by each of its responsibilities. The Audit Committee also meets periodically with the independent auditors, who have free access to the Audit Committee and the Board of Directors, to discuss the quality and acceptability of the Company's financial reporting and internal controls, as well as nonaudit-related services. The independent auditors are engaged to express an opinion on the Company's consolidated financial statements and on the Company's internal control over financial reporting. Their opinions are based on procedures that they believe to be sufficient to provide reasonable assurance that the financial statements contain no material errors and that the Company's internal controls are effective. Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting The Company's management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for the Company. With the participation of the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting based on the frame work and the criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013), issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on this evaluation, management has concluded that internal control over financial reporting was effective as of September 30, 2022. The Company acquired a controlling interest in Aspen Technology, Inc. during fiscal 2022, and management has excluded this business from its assessment of internal control over financial reporting as of September 30, 2022. Total assets and revenues of this business excluded from the assessment represented approximately 36 percent and 2 percent, respectively, of the Company's related consolidated financial statement amounts as of and for the year ended September 30, 2022. The Company's auditor, KPMG LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, has issued an audit report on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. 19 Results of Operations Years ended September 30 (Dollars in Item 7 are in millions, except per share amounts or where noted) OVERVIEW Overall, sales for 2022 were $19.6 billion, up 8 percent compared with the prior year, reflecting strong growth across both platforms and favorable results across all geographies despite headwinds due to the impact of lockdowns in China and supply chain and logistics constraints. Net earnings common stockholders were $3,231 in 2022, up 40 percent compared with prior year earnings of $2,303, and diluted earnings per share were $5.41, up 42 percent versus $3.82 per share in 2021. Adjusted diluted earnings per share were $5.25 co m pared wi th $4.51 in the prior year, reflecting strong operating results and a $0.12 benefit related to the AspenTech acquisition. The Company generated operating cash flow of $2.9 billion in 2022, a decrease of $653, or 18 percent, reflecting higher working capital due to increased sales and continued supply chain constraints. The table below presents the Company's diluted earnings per share on an adjusted basis to facilitate period-to-period comparisons and provide additional insight into the underlying, ongoing operating performance of the Company. Adjusted diluted earnings per share excludes intangibles amortization expense, restructuring expense, first year purchase accounting related items and transaction and AspenTech pre-closing costs, and certain gains, losses or impairments. 20 The table below summarizes the changes in adjusted diluted earnings per share. The items identified below are discussed throughout MD&A, see further discussion above and in the Business Segments and Financial Position sections below. NET SALES Net sales for 2022 were $19.6 billion, an increase of $1.4 billion, or 8 percent compared with 2021. Sales increased $466 in Automation Solutions, $337 in AspenTech and $580 in Commercial & Residential Solutions. Underlying sales, which exclude foreign currency translation, acquisitions and divestitures, increased 9 percent on 4 percent higher volume and 5 percent higher price. The AspenTech acquisition added 2 percent, foreign currency translation deducted 2 percent and the Therm-O-Disc divestiture deducted 1 percent. Underlying sales increased 14 percent in the U.S. and 6 percent internationally. Net sales for 2021 were $18.2 billion, an increase of $1.5 billion, or 9 percent compared with 2020. Sales increased $266 in Automation Solutions. $188 in AspenTech and $1,010 in Commercial & Residential Solutions. Underlying sales, which exclude foreign currency translation, acquisitions and divestitures, increased 5 percent on higher volume and slightly higher price. The Open Systems International Inc. ("OSI") acquisition added 1 percent and foreign currency translation added 3 percent. Underlying sales increased 5 percent in the U.S. and 5 percent internationally. INTERNATIONAL SALES Emerson is a global business with international sales representing 54 percent of total sales in 2022, including U.S. exports. The Company generally expects faster economic growth in emerging markets in Asia, Latin America, Eastern Europe and Middle East/Africa. 21 International destination sales, including U.S. exports, increased 2 percent, to $10.6 billion in 2022, reflecting the impact of the Heritage AspenTech acquisition and an increase in the Commercial & Residential Solutions business. U.S. exports of $1.5 billion were up 33 percent compared with 2021, including an increase of approximately $200 due to the Heritage AspenTech acquisition. Underlying international destination sales were up 6 percent, as foreign currency translation had a 5 percent unfavorable impact on the comparison, the AspenTech acquisition added 2 percent and the Therm-O-Disc divestiture subtracted 1 percent. Underlying sales increased 2 percent in Europe, 5 percent in Asia, Middle East & Africa (China up 7 percent), 19 percent in Latin America and 15 percent in Canada. Origin sales by international subsidiaries, including shipments to the U.S., totaled $9.2 billion in 2022, down 1 percent compared with 2021. International destination sales, including U.S. exports, increased 10 percent, to $10.3 billion in 2021, reflecting increases in both the Automation Solutions and Commercial & Residential Solutions businesses. U.S. exports of $1.1 billion were up 12 percent compared with 2020. Underlying international destination sales were up 5 percent, as foreign currency translation had a 4 percent favorable impact on the comparison and the OSI acquisition added 1 percent. Underlying sales increased 5 percent in Europe, 5 percent in Asia, Middle East & Africa (China up 15 percent), 9 percent in Latin America and 1 percent in Canada. Origin sales by international subsidiaries, including shipments to the U.S., totaled $9.3 billion in 2021, up 9 percent compared with 2020. ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES Portfolio management is an integral component of Emerson's growth and value creation strategy. Over the past 18 months, Emerson has taken significant actions to accelerate the transformation of its portfolio through the completion of strategic acquisitions and divestitures of non-core businesses. These actions were undertaken to create a higher growth and cohesive industrial technology portfolio as a global automation leader serving a diversified set of end markets with differentiated capabilities in intelligent devices and software. The Company’s recent portfolio actions include the following transactions. On October 31, 2022, the Company announced an agreement to sell a majority stake in its Climate Technologies business (which constitutes the Climate Technologies segment, excluding Therm-O-Disc which was divested earlier in fiscal 2022) to private equity funds managed by Blackstone ("Blackstone") in a transaction valued at $14.0 billion. Emerson will receive upfront, pre-tax cash proceeds of approximately $9.5 billion and a note of $2.25 billion at close (which will accrue 5 percent interest payable in kind by capitalizing interest), while retaining a 45 percent non-controlling common equity ownership interest in a new standalone joint venture between Emerson and Blackstone. The Climate Technologies business, which includes the Copeland compressor business and the entire portfolio of products and services across all residential and commercial HVAC and refrigeration end-markets, had fiscal 2022 net sales of approximately $5.0 billion and pretax earnings of $1.0 billion. The transaction is expected to close in the first half of calendar year 2023, subject to regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions. The Company expects to recognize a pretax gain of approximately $10 billion (approximately $8 billion after-tax) in fiscal 2023 upon the completion of the transaction. On October 31, 2022, the Company completed the divestiture of its InSinkErator business, which manufactures food waste disposers, to Whirlpool Corporation for $3.0 billion. This business had net sales of $630 and pretax earnings of $152 in fiscal 2022 and is reported in the Tools & Home Products segment. The assets and liabilities of InSinkErator were classified as held-for-sale as of September 30, 2022 and are included in other current assets, other assets, accrued expenses and other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheet. The Company expects to recognize a pretax gain of approximately $2.8 billion (approximately $2.1 billion after-tax) in the first quarter of fiscal 2023. On May 16, 2022, the Company completed the transactions contemplated by its definitive agreement with Aspen Technology, Inc. ("Heritage AspenTech") to contribute two of Emerson's stand-alone industrial software businesses, Open Systems International, Inc. and the Geological Simulation Software business (collectively, the “Emerson Industrial Software Business”), along with approximately $6.0 billion in cash to Heritage AspenTech stockholders, to create "New AspenTech", a diversified, high-performance industrial software leader with greater scale, capabilities and technologies (hereinafter referred to as "AspenTech"). Upon closing of the transaction, Emerson beneficially owned 55 percent of the outstanding shares of AspenTech common stock (on a fully diluted basis) and former Heritage AspenTech stockholders owned the remaining outstanding shares of AspenTech common stock. AspenTech and its subsidiaries now operate under Heritage AspenTech’s previous name “Aspen Technology, Inc.” and AspenTech common stock is traded on NASDAQ under Heritage AspenTech’s previous stock ticker symbol “AZPN.” On a pro forma basis, AspenTech had fiscal 2022 net sales of $1.1 billion. 22 On July 27, 2022, AspenTech entered into an agreement to acquire Micromine, a global leader in design and operational solutions for the mining industry, for AU $900 (approximately $623 USD based on exchange rates when the transaction was announced). The transaction is expected to close by the end of calendar 2022, subject to various regulatory approvals. On May 31, 2022 the Company completed the divestiture of its Therm-O-Disc sensing and protection technologies business, which was reported in the Climate Technologies segment, to an affiliate of One Rock Capital Partners, LLC. The Company recognized a pretax gain of $486 ($429 after-tax, $0.72 per share). On May 4, 2022, Emerson announced its intention to exit business operations in Russia and divest Metran, its Russia-based manufacturing subsidiary, and on September 27, 2022, announced an agreement to sell the business to the local management group. Emerson's historical net sales in Russia were principally in the Automation Solutions segment and in total, represented approximately 1.5 percent of consolidated annual sales. The Company recognized a pretax loss of $181 ($190 after-tax, in total $0.32 per share) related to its exit of business operations in Russia. This charge, which included a loss o f $36 in operations and $145 reported in Other deductions ($10 of which is reported in restructuring costs), is primarily non-cash. The transaction will be subject to regulatory and government approvals, and other customary closing conditions. Emerson will work closely with the local Russia management group to help ensure a smooth transition for employees through the sale process. In 2022, the Company acquired three other businesses, two in the Automation Solutions segment and one in the AspenTech segment, for $130, net of cash acquired. The three businesses had combined annual sales of approximately $40. On October 1, 2020, the Company completed the acquisition of Open Systems International, Inc. (OSI), a leading operations technology software provider in the global power industry, for approximately $1.6 billion, net of cash acquired. This business had net sales of $191 in fiscal 2021 and is now reported in the AspenTech segment . In 2020, the Company acquired three businesses, two in the Automation Solutions segment and one in the Climate Technologies segment, for $126, net of cash acquired. These three businesses had combined annual sales of approximately $50. See Note 4 and Item 1A - "Risk Factors" for further information on acquisitions and divestitures. COST OF SALES Cost of sales for 2022 were $11,441, an increase of $768 compared with $10,673 in 2021, primarily due to higher sales volume and higher materials costs. Gross profit was $8,188 in 2022 compared to $7,563 in 2021, while gross margin increased 0.2 percentage points to 41.7 percent. The Heritage AspenTech acquisition benefited gross margin 0.7 percentage points, while price less net material inflation was favorable but had a dilutive impact on margins. Higher freight and other inflation also negatively impacted margins, partially offset by favorable mix. Cost of sales for 2021 were $10,673, an increase of $897 compared with $9,776 in 2020, primarily due to higher sales volume in Commercial & Residential Solutions, foreign currency translation, and the OSI acquisition which added $112 including intangibles amortization of $39. Gross profit was $7,563 in 2021 compared to $7,009 in 2020, while gross margin decreased 0.3 percentage points to 41.5 percent, as leverage on higher sales volume was offset by unfavorable price-cost in Commercial & Residential Solutions primarily driven by higher steel prices, intangibles amortization from the OSI acquisition which deducted 0.2 percentage points, and unfavorable mix. SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES SG&A expenses of $4,248 in 2022 increased $69 compared with 2021, reflecting the impact of higher sales and higher wage and other inflation. SG&A as a percent of sales decreased 1.3 percentage points to 21.6 percent, reflecting leverage on higher sales and lower stock compensation expense of $80 due to a lower share price in the current year (0.5 percentage points). SG&A expenses of $4,179 in 2021 increased $193 compared with 2020 on higher stock compensation expense, as well as increased sales volume. SG&A as a percent of sales decreased 0.9 percentage points to 22.9 percent, reflecting increased savings of approximately $240 from the Company's restructuring and cost reset actions, partially offset by higher stock compensation expense of $144 (0.6 percentage points) due to a higher share price in 2021. 23 INVESTMENT AND DIVESTITURE GAINS As previously disclosed, the Company sold its network power systems business (rebranded as Vertiv, now a publicly traded company, symbol VRT) in 2017 and retained a subordinated interest contingent upon the equity holders first receiving a threshold cash return on their initial investment. In the first quarter of fiscal 2022, the equity holders' cumulative cash return exceeded the threshold and as a result, the Company received a distribution of $438 in November 2021 (in total, a pretax gain of $453 was recognized in the first quarter). Based on the terms of the agreement and the current calculation, the Company could receive additional distributions of approximately $75 which are expected to be received over the next two-to-three years. However, the distributions are contingent on the timing and price at which Vertiv shares are sold by the equity holders and therefore, there can be no assurance as to the amount or timing of the remaining distributions to the Company. On May 31, 2022, the Company completed the sale of its Therm-O-Disc sensing and protection technologies business to an affiliate of One Rock Capital Partners, LLC. The Company recognized a pretax gain o f $486 ($429 after-tax, $0.72 per share). See Note 4. OTHER DEDUCTIONS, NET Other deductions, net were $601 in 2022, an increase of $283 compared with 2021, reflecting a charge of $145 related to the Company exiting its business in Russia ($10 of which is reported in restructuring costs), acquisition/divestiture costs of $110, higher intangibles amortization of $57, primarily related to the Heritage AspenTech acquisition, and a mark-to-market loss of $50 related to foreign currency forward contracts entered into by AspenTech to mitigate the impact of foreign currency exchange associated with the Micromine purchase price. These items were partially offset by lower restructuring costs of $64 , gains from the sales of capital assets of $15, and a $14 gain from the acquisition of full ownership of an equity investment. The prior year also had several investment-related gains which are described below. See Notes 5 and 6. Other deductions, net were $318 in 2021, a decrease of $214 compared with 2020, reflecting lower restructuring costs of $134, investment-related gains, including gains of $21 from an investment sale and $17 from the acquisition of full ownership of an equity investment, and a gain of $31 from the sale of an equity investment, a favorable impact from pensions, and favorable foreign currency transactions of $17. These items were partially offset by higher intangibles amortization of $61, primarily related to the OSI acquisition. INTEREST EXPENSE, NET Interest expense, net was $193 , $154 and $156 in 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. The increase in 2022 reflects the issuance of $3 billion of long-term debt in December 2021 to support the AspenTech transaction, partially offset by $500 of notes that matured in the first quarter of fiscal 2022. EARNINGS BEFORE INCOME TAXES Pretax earnings of $4,085 increased $1,173 in 2022, up 40 percent compared with 2021 reflecting the impact of the Vertiv and Therm-O-Disc gains discussed above. Earnings increased $401 in Automation Solutions, $19 in AspenTech and $76 in Commercial & Residential Solutions. Costs reported at Corporate increased $223, largely due to the Russia business exit loss and acquisition/divestiture costs, offset by lower stock compensation expense of $80. See the Business Segments discussion that follows and Note 18. Pretax earnings of $2,912 increased $577 in 2021, up 25 percent compared with 2020. Earnings increased $416 in Automation Solutions, $9 in AspenTech and $246 in Commercial & Residential Solutions. Costs reported at Corporate increased $96, reflecting higher stock compensation expense of $114 and first year acquisition accounting charges and fees related to the OSI acquisition of $50, partially offset by the investment-related gains discussed above and lower unallocated pension and postretirement costs which decreased by $41. INCOME TAXES In come taxes were $855, $585 and $345 for 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively, resulting in effective tax rates of 21 percent, 20 percent and 15 percent in 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. The tax rates for 2022, 2021 and 2020 include benefits from restructuring subsidiaries of $11, $13 and $103, respectively. The impact on the 2022 tax rate from the gain on divestiture of the Therm-O-Disc business and the Russia business exit in 2022 essentially offset. The lower rate in 2020 included the impact of a research and development tax credit study. See Note 14. 24 NET EARNINGS AND EARNINGS PER SHARE Net earnings attributable to common stockholders in 2022 were $3,231, up 40 percent compared with 2021, and diluted earnings per share were $5.41, up 42 percent compared with $3.82 in 2021. Results reflected strong operating results and included a pretax gain of $453 ($358 after-tax, $0.60 per share) related to the Company's subordinated interest in Vertiv and a pretax gain of $486 ($429 after-tax, $0.72 per share) related to the Therm-O-Disc divestiture. See the analysis of adjusted earnings per share in the Overview section for further details. Net earnings attributable to common stockholders in 2021 were $2,303, up 17 percent compared with 2020, and diluted earnings per share were $3.82, up 18 percent compared with $3.24 in 2020 due to improved operating results reflecting significant savings from the Company's restructuring and cost reset actions and leverage on higher sales volume in Commercial & Residential Solutions. The table below, which shows results on an adjusted EBITA basis, is intended to supplement the Company's discussion of its results of operations herein. The Company defines adjusted EBITA as earnings excluding interest expense, net, income taxes, intangibles amortization expense, restructuring expense, first year purchase accounting related items and transaction fees, and certain gains, losses or impairments. Adjusted EBITA and adjusted EBITA margin are measures used by management and may be useful for investors to evaluate the Company's operational performance. RETURNS ON EQUITY AND TOTAL CAPITAL Return on common stockholder s' equity (net earnings attributable to common stockholders divided by average common stockholders' equity) was 31.9 percent in 2022 compared with 25.2 percent in 2021 and 23.6 percent in 2020. Return on total capital (computed as net earnings attributable to common stockholders excluding after-tax net interest expense, divided by average common stockholders' equity plus short- and l ong-term debt less cash and short-term investments) was 20.4 percent in 2022 compared with 18.1 percent in 2021 and 16.8 percent in 2020 . The higher returns in 2022 included the impact of the Vertiv subordinated interest after-tax gain of $358, the after-tax gain on the Therm-O-Disc divestiture of $429, after-tax acquisition/divestiture costs of $93, and the Russia business exit after-tax loss of $190 . Excluding these items, return on common stockholders' equity and return on total capital were 26.9 percent and 17.4 percent, respectively. Business Segments Following is an analysis of segment results for 2022 compared with 2021, and 2021 compared with 2020. The Company defines segment earnings as earnings before interest and income taxes. 25 2022 vs. 2021 - Automation Solutions sales were $11.8 billion in 2022, an increase of $466, or 4 percent. Underlying sales increased 7 percent on 5 percent higher volume and 2 percent higher price, reflecting strength in process end markets and sustained demand in discrete and hybrid end markets, despite supply chain and logistics constraints which unfavorably impacted sales. Foreign currency translation had a 3 percent unfavorable impact. Sales for Measurement & Analytical Instrumentation increased $135  or 4 percent. Sales were strong in China and North America, while sales were down moderately in Europe due to supply chain constraints. Valves, Actuators & Regulators increased $121, or 3 percent, reflecting strong demand in the Americas and China, partially offset by softness in the rest of Asia, Middle East & Africa. Industrial Solutions sales increased $137, or 6 percent, reflecting strong demand across all geographies. Systems & Software increased $73, or 3 percent, reflecting strength in process end markets in North America and China, partially offset by weakness in Europe, while power end markets were strong in North America and Europe. Underlying sales increased 14 percent in the Americas (U.S. up 13 percent), while Europe, which was negatively impacted by 5 percentage points due to the business exit from Russia, decreased 1 percent, and Asia, Middle East & Africa was up 5 percent (China up 11 percent). Earnings of $2,356 increased $401 from the prior year, and margin increased 2.7 percentage points to 20.0 percent, reflecting leverage on higher volume, favorable mix, lower restructuring expenses which benefited margins 0.4 percentage points, savings from cost reduction actions and favorable price less net material inflation, partially offset by higher freight and other inflation. 2021 vs. 2020 - Automatio n Solutions sales were $11.3 billion in 2021, an increase of $266, or 2 percent. Underlying sales were flat as higher prices offset slightly lower volume. Discrete and hybrid markets exhibited strength throughout the year while longer cycle process automation markets began to recover in the second half of the year, including a sharp recovery in core North American automation markets. Foreign currency translation had a 2 percent favorable impact. Sales for Measurement & Analytical Instrumentation decreased $37, or 1 percent, as process industries were weak in the first half of the year, but have improved sequentially as markets continue to recover from the impacts of COVID-19. Valves, Actuators & Regulators decreased $106, or 3 percent, reflecting slower demand in most end markets, particularly in North America and Europe, partially offset by modest growth in Asia. Industrial Solutions sales increased $254, or 13 percent, on strong growth in Europe and robust growth in China, while North American discrete end markets were up moderately. Systems & Software increased $155, or 6 percent. Process end markets were strong in Europe and had moderate growth in Asia while North America was flat. Power generation end markets were solid in North America and strong in Europe, partially offset by softness in Asia . Underlying sales decreased 2 percent in the Americas (U.S. down 3 percent), increased 1 percent in Europe and 2 percent in Asia, Middle East & Africa (China up 14 percent). Earnings of $1,955 increased $416 from the prior year, and m argin increased 3.3 percentage points to 17.3 percent, as significant savings from cost reduction actions 26 and favorable price-cost more than offset higher performance-based compensation expense. Lower restructuring expense benefited margins 0.9 percentage points. As a result of the Heritage AspenTech acquisition, the Company identified one additional segment in fiscal 2022. The new segment reflects the combined results of Heritage AspenTech and the Emerson Industrial Software Business. The results for this new segment include the historical results of the Emerson Industrial Software Business (which was previously reported in the Automation Solutions segment), while results related to the Heritage AspenTech business include only periods subsequent to the close of the transaction on May 16, 2022. See Note 4 for further details. 2022 vs. 2021 - AspenTech sales were $656 in 2022,  an increase of $337, or 106 percent due to the acquisition of Heritage AspenTec h. Earnings were $12, an increase of $19, and margin improved to 1.9 percent, reflecting the impact of the Heritage AspenTech acquisition. Resul ts for fiscal 2022 included intangibles amortization of $148 related to the Heritage AspenTech acquisition ($51 of which was reported in Cost of sales). 2021 vs. 2020 - AspenTech sales were $319 in 2021, an increase of $188, or 145 percent due to the Open Systems International, Inc. ("OSI") acquisition. The segment had a loss $7, an improvement of $9 compared to 2020 , and margin improve d to (2.3) percent, reflecting the impact of the OSI acquisition. Results for fiscal 2021 included intangibles amortization of $66 related to the OSI acquisition. 27 2022 vs. 2021 - Commercial & Residential Solutions sales were $7.2 billion in 2022, an increase of $580, or 9 percent. Foreign currency translation had a 2 percent unfavorable impact and divestitures deducted 2 percent. Underlying sales increased 13 percent on 3 percent higher volume and 10 percent higher price . Climate Technologies sales were $5.2 billion in 2022, an increase of $452, or 10 percent. Air conditioning, heating and refrigeration sales were strong, reflecting global demand across all end markets. Tools & Home Products sales were $2.0 billion in 2022, up $128 or 7 percent compared to the prior year. Sales of professional tools and food waste disposers were strong, while wet/dry vacuums decreased moderately due to difficult comparisons . Overall, underlying sales increased 15 percent in the Americas (U.S. up 14 percent) and 11 percent in Europe, while Asia, Middle East & Africa increased 5 percent (China down 7 percent). Earnings were $1,440, an increase of $76, and margin was down 0.6 percentage points, as price less net material in flation was favorable but had a slightly dilutive impact on margins and higher freight and other inflation also negatively impacted margins, partially offset by leverage on higher sales and savings from cost reduction actions. 2021 vs. 2020 - Commercial & Residential Solutions sales were $6.7 billion in 2021, an increase of $1,010, or 18 percent. Underlying sales increased 16 percent on strong global demand, as nearly all businesses achieved double-digit growth each quarter, while foreign currency translation added 2 percent. Climate Technologies sales were $4.7 billion in 2021, an increase of $768, or 19 percent. Air conditioning an d heating sales were up mid-teens, reflecting strong demand for residential-oriented products and solutions in North America and robust growth in Europe and China. Cold chain sales were up over 20 percent, driven by favorable global market conditions and strength in food retail and aftermarket. Tools & Home Products sales were $1.9 billion in 2021, up $242 or 15 percent compared to the prior year. Sales of wet/dry vacuums were robust in part due to competitor outages, while sales were strong for global professional tools and solid for food waste disposers . Overall, underlying sales increased 16 percent in the Americas (U.S. up 15 percent) and 17 percent in Europe, while Asia, Middle East & Africa increased 17 percent (China up 17 percent). Earnings were $1,364, an increase of $246, and margin was up 0.7 percentage points, reflecting leverage on higher volume and savings from cost reduction actions, partially offset by unfavorable price-cost primarily due to steel price increases which negatively impacted the second half of the fiscal year. Financial Position, Liquidity and Capital Resources Emerson maintains a conservative financial structure to provide the strength and flexibility necessary to achieve our strategic objectives and has been successful in efficiently deploying cash where needed worldwide to fund operations, complete acquisitions and sustain long-term growth. Emerson is in a strong financial position, with total assets of $36 billion and stockholders' equity of $10 billion, and has the resources available for reinvestment in existing businesses, strategic acquisitions and managing its capital structure on a short- and long-term basis. The Co mpany continues to generate substantial operating cash flow with over $2.9 billion in each of the last three years. Cash flows have been and are expected to be sufficient for at least the next 12 months to meet the Company’s operating requir ements, including those related to salaries and wages, working capital, capital expenditures, and other liquidity requirements associated with operations. The Company also has certain contractual obligations, primarily long-term debt and operating leases (see Notes 7, 10 and 11). The Company has been able to readily meet all its funding requirements and currently believes that sufficient funds will be available to meet its needs for the foreseeable future through operating cash flow, existing resources, short- and long-term debt capacity, or its $3.5 billion revolving backup credit facility under which it has not incurred any borrowings. 28 Operating cash flow for 2022 was $2.9 billion, a $653, or 18 percent decrease compared with 2021, reflecting higher working capital due to increased sales and ongoing supply chain constraints. Operating cash flow of $3.6 billion in 2021 increased 16 percent compared to $3.1 billion in 2020, due to higher earnings. At September 30, 2022, operating working capital as a percent of sales was 5.3 percent compared with 3.9 percent in 2021 and 5.2 percent in 2020. The increase for 2022 compared to the prior year is due to higher inventory levels to support sales growth and reflecting ongoing supply chain constraints. In addition, the Heritage AspenTech acquisition increased operating working capital by approximately $250. As of September 30, 2022, Emerson's cash and equivalents totaled $1.8 billion, which included approximately $380 attributable to AspenTech. The cash held by AspenTech is intended to be used for its own purposes and is not a readily available source of liquidity for other Emerson general business purposes or to return to Emerson shareholders. Contributions to pension plans were $43 in 2022, $41 in 2021 and $66 in 2020. Capital expenditures were $531, $581 and $538 in 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Free cash flow (operating cash flow less capital expenditures) was $2.4 billion in 2022, down 20 percent. Free cash flow was $3.0 billion in 2021, compared with $2.5 billion in 2020. The Company is targeting capital spending from continuing operations of approximately $350 in 2023. Net cash paid in connection with acquisitions was $5,702, $1,611 and $126 in 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. The Company's agreement to sell a majority stake in its Climate Technologies business will impact its cash flows in future periods after the transaction is completed. In 2022, this business had operating cash flow of approximately $875, capital expenditures of approximately $200, and free cash flow of approximately $675. The Company expects its remaining businesses will continue to generate significant cash flows that will be available to support the return of cash to shareholders and to reinvest for future growth. On March 27, 2020, the CARES Act was enacted in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, and among other things, provided tax relief to businesses. Tax provisions of the CARES Act included the deferral of certain payroll taxes, relief for retaining employees , and other provisions. The Company deferred $73 of certain payroll taxes through the end of calendar year 2020, of which approximately $37 was paid in December 2021 with the remaining amount due in December 2022. Dividends were $1,223 ($2.06 per share) in 2022, compared with $1,210 ($2.02 per share) in 2021 and $1,209 ($2.00 per share) in 2020. In October 2022 , the Board of Directors voted to increase the quarterly cash dividend 1 percent, to an annualized rate of $2.08 per share. Purchases of Emerson common stock totaled $500, $500 and $942 in 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively, at average per share prices of $87.64, $94.65 and $57.41. In November 2015, the Board of Directors authorized the purchase of up to 70 million shares, and during fiscal 2022, the remaining shares available under this authorization were purchased. In March 2020, the Board of Directors authorized the purchase of an additional 60 million shares and a tot al of approximately 55 million shares remain available. The Company purchase d 5.7 mi llion shares in 2022, 5.3 million shares in 2021 and 16.4 million shares in 2020 under the authorizations. 29 Total debt, which includes long-term debt, current maturities of long-term debt, commercial paper and other short-term borrowings, was $10,374, $6,665 and $7,486 as of September 30, 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. The increased debt was due to the issuance of $3 billion of long-term debt and increased commercial paper borrowings of approximately $1.3 billion compared to September 30, 2021. The Company used the net proceeds from the sale of the notes and the increased commercial paper borrowings to fund the majority of its contribution of approximately $6.0 billion to existing stockholders of Heritage AspenTech as part of the transaction. Long-term debt was issued i n December 2021 as follows: $1 billion of 2.0% notes due December 2028, $1 billion of 2.2% notes due December 2031, and $1 billion of 2.8% notes due December 2051. Additionally, the Company repaid $500 of 2.625% notes that matured. See Note 4 and Note 11. In fiscal 2021, the Company repaid $300 of 4.25% notes that matured and in fiscal 2020 repaid $500 of 4.875% notes that matured. Additionally, in fiscal 2020, the Company issued $500 of 1.8% notes due October 2027, $500 of 1.95% notes due October 2030 and $500 of 2.75% notes due October 2050, and in September 2020, the Company issued $750 of 0.875% notes due October 2026. The net proceeds from the sale of the notes were used to reduce commercial paper borrowings and for general corporate purposes. A portion of the proceeds from the notes issued in September 2020 were also used to fund the acquisition of OSI, which closed on October 1, 2020. The total debt-to-total capital ratio and net debt-to-net capital ratio (less cash and short-term investments) increased in 2022 due to the increased borrowings to support the AspenTech transaction discussed above, while it decreased in 2021 due to lower long-term debt and higher equity compared to the prior year. The interest coverage ratio is computed as earnings before income taxes plus interest expense, divided by interest expense. The increase in 2022 reflects higher pretax earnings in the current year, which included the Vertiv subordinated interest gain of $453, the gain on the Therm-O-Disc divestiture of $486, and the Russia business exit loss of $181. Excluding these items, the interest coverage ratio was 15.6, reflecting higher interest expense due to the increased long-term debt and commercial paper borrowings to fund the Heritage AspenTech acquisition. The increase in 2021 reflects higher earnings and slightly lower interest expense. In May 2018, the Company entered into a $3.5 billion five-year revolving backup credit facility with various banks, which replaced the April 2014 $3.5 billion facility. The credit facility is maintained to support general corporate purposes, including commercial paper borrowings. The Company has not incurred any borrowings under this or previous facilities. The credit facility contains no financial covenants and is not subject to termination based on a change of credit rating or material adverse changes. The facility is unsecured and may be accessed under various interest rate alternatives at the Company’s option. Fees to maintain the facility are immaterial. The Company expects to be able to renew its revolving backup credit facility in fiscal 2023 on substantially the same terms as the current facility. The Company also maintains a universal shelf registration statement on file with the SEC under which it can issue debt securities, preferred stock, common stock, warrants, share purchase contracts or share purchase units without a predetermined limit. Securities can be sold in one or more separate offerings with the size, price and terms to be determined at the time of sale. Emerson's financial structure provides the flexibility necessary to achieve its strategic objectives. The Company has been successful in efficiently deploying cash where needed worldwide to fund operations, complete acquisitions and sustain long-term growth. At September 30, 2022, the majority of the Company's cash was held outside of the U.S. (primarily in Europe and Asia). The Company routinely repatriates a portion of its non-U.S. cash from earnings each 30 year, or otherwise when it can be accomplished tax efficiently, and provides for withholding taxes and any applicable U.S. income taxes as appropriate. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Company is exposed to market risk related to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices, and selectively uses derivative financial instruments, including forwards, swaps and purchased options to manage these risks. The Company does not hold derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. The value of derivatives and other financial instruments is subject to change as a result of market movements in rates and prices. Sensitivity analysis is one technique used to fo recast the impact of these movements. Based on a hypothetical 10 percent increase in interest rates, a 10 percent decrease in commodity prices or a 10 percent weakening in the U.S. dollar across all currencies, the potential losses in future earnings, fair value or cash flows are not material. Sensitivity analysis has limitations; for example, a weaker U.S. dollar would benefit future earnings through favorable translation of non-U.S. operating results, and lower commodity prices would benefit future earnings through lower cost of sales. See Notes 1, and 9 through 11. Critical Accounting Policies Preparation of the Company's financial statements requires management to make judgments, assumptions and estimates regarding uncertainties that could affect reported revenue, expenses, assets, liabilities and equity. Note 1 describes the significant accounting policies used in preparation of the consolidated financial statements. The most significant areas where management judgments and estimates impact the primary financial statements are described below. Actual results in these areas could differ materially from management's estimates under different assumptions or conditions. REVENUE RECOGNITION The Company evaluates its contracts with customers to identify the promised goods or services and recognizes revenue for the identified performance obligations at the amount the Company expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. A performance obligation is a promise in a contract to transfer a distinct good or service to a customer. Revenue is recognized when, or as, performance obligations are satisfied and control has transferred to the customer, typically when products are shipped or delivered, title and risk of loss pass to the customer, and the Company has a present right to payment. The majority of the Company's revenues relate to a broad offering of manufactured products which are recognized at the point in time when control transfers, generally in accordance with shipping terms. A portion of the Company's revenues relate to the sale of software and post-contract customer support, parts and labor for repairs, and engineering services. In some circumstances, contracts include multiple performance obligations, where revenue is recognized separately for each good or service, as well as contracts where revenue is recognized over time as control transfers to the customer. Tangible products represent a large majority of the delivered items in contracts with multiple performance obligations or where revenue is recognized over time, while a smaller portion is attributable to installation, service and maintenance. In sales arrangements that involve multiple performance obligations, revenue is allocated based on the relative standalone selling price for each performance obligation. Observable selling prices from actual transactions are used whenever possible. In other instances, the Company determines the standalone selling price based on thi rd-party pricing or management's best estimate. For revenues recognized over time, the Company typically uses an input method to determine progress and recognize revenue, based on costs incurred. The Company believes costs incurred closely correspond with its performance under the contract and the transfer of control to the customer. VALUATION OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES ACQUIRED IN A BUSINESS COMBINATION Assets and liabilities acquired in business combinations, including intangible assets, are accounted for using the acquisition method and recorded at their respective fair values. In fiscal 2022, the Company completed the acquisition of Aspen Technology, Inc. and engaged an independent third-party valuation specialist to assist in the determination of the fair value of intangible assets. This included the use of certain assumptions and estimates, including the projected revenue for the customer relationship and developed technology intangible asset and the obsolescence rate for the developed technology intangible asset. Although we believe the assumptions and estimates to be reasonable and appropriate, they require judgement and are based on experience and historical information obtained from Aspen Technology, Inc. 31 LONG-LIVED ASSETS Long-lived assets, which include property, plant and equipment, goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in business circumstances indicate impairment may exist. If the Company determines that the carrying value of a long-lived asset may not be recoverable, a permanent impairment charge is recorded for the amount by which the carrying value of the long-lived asset exceeds its estimated fair value. Reporting units are also reviewed for possible goodwill impairment at least annually, in the fourth quarter. If an initial assessment indicates it is more likely than not an impairment may exist, it is evaluated by comparing the reporting unit's estimated fair value to its carrying value. Fair value is generally estimated using an income approach that discounts estimated future cash flows using discount rates judged by management to be commensurate with the applicable risk. Estimates of future sales, operating results, cash flows and discount rates are subject to changes in the economic environment, including such factors as the general level of market interest rates, expected equity market returns and the volatility of markets served, particularly when recessionary economic circumstances continue for an extended period of time. RETIREMENT PLANS The Company maintains a prudent long-term investment strategy consistent with the duration of pension obligations. The determination of defined benefit plan expense and liabilities is dependent on various assumptions, including the expected annual rate of return on plan assets, the discount rate and the rate of annual compensation increases. In accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, actual results that differ from the Compa ny's assumptions are accumulated as deferred actuarial gains or losses and amortized to expense in future periods. The Company's principal U.S. defined benefit plan is closed to employees hired after January 1, 2016 while shorter-tenured employees ceased accruing benefits effective October 1, 2016. As of September 30, 2022, the U.S. pension plans were overfunded by $513 in total (approximately 16 percent in excess of the projected benefit obligation), including unfunded plans totaling $162. The non-U.S. plans were underfunded by $57, including unfunded plans totaling $236. The Company contributed a total of $43 to defined benefit plans in 2022 and expects to contribute approximately $40 in 2023. At year-end 2022, the discount rate for U.S. plans was 5.64 percent, and was 2.92 percent in 2021. The assumed investment return on plan assets was 6.00 percent in 2022, 6.50 percent in 2021 and 6.75 percent in 2020, and will be 6.00 percent for 2023. While management believes its assumptions used are appropriate, actual experience may differ. A 0.25 percentage point decrease in the U.S. and non-U.S. discount rates would have increased the total projected benefit obligation at September 30, 2022 by $1 00 and increased fiscal 2023 pension expense by $15. A 0.25 percentage point decrease in the expected return on plan assets would increase fiscal 2023 pension expense by $15. See Note 12. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES The Company is a party to a number of pending legal proceedings and claims, including those involving general and product liability (including asbestos) and other matters, several of which claim substantial amounts of damages. The Company accrues for such liabilities when it is probable that future costs (including legal fees and expenses) will be incurred and such costs can be reasonably estimated. Accruals are based on developments to date; management's estimates of the outcomes of these matters; and the Company's experience in contesting, litigating and settling similar matters. T he Company engages an outside expert to develop an actuarial estimate of its expected costs to resolve all pending and future asbestos claims, including defense costs, as well as its related insurance receivables. The reserve for asbestos litigation, which is recorded on an undiscounted basis, is based on projected claims through 2065. Although it is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of these matters, the Company historically has been largely successful in defending itself against claims and suits that have been brought against it, and will continue to defend itself vigorously in all such matters. While the Company believes a material adverse impact is unlikely, given the inherent uncertainty of litigation, a remote possibility exists that a future development could have a material adverse impact on the Company. See Note 13. INCOME TAXES Income tax expense and tax assets and liabilities reflect management's assessment of taxes paid or expected to be paid (received) on items included in the financial statements. Deferred tax assets and liabilities arise from temporary differences between the consolidated financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases, and consideration of operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred income taxes are measured using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The impact on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in the period that includes the enactment date. Valuation allowances are provided to reduce deferred tax assets to the 32 amount that will more likely than not be realized. This requires management to make judgments and estimates regarding the amount and timing of the reversal of taxable temporary differences, expected future taxable income, and the impact of tax planning strategies. Uncertainty exists regarding tax positions taken in previously filed tax returns which remain subject to examination, along with positions expected to be taken in future returns. The Company provides for unrecognized tax benefits, based on the technical merits, when it is more likely than not that an uncertain tax position will not be sustained upon examination. Adjustments are made to the uncertain tax positions when facts and circumstances change, such as the closing of a tax audit; changes in applicable tax laws, including tax case rulings and legislative guidance; or expiration of the applicable statute of limitations. Cash repatriated to the U.S. is generally not subject to U.S. federal income taxes. No provision is made for withholding taxes and any applicable U.S. income taxes on the undistributed earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries where these earnings are considered indefinitely invested or otherwise retained for continuing international operations. Determination of the amount of taxes that might be paid on these undistributed earnings if eventually remitted is not practicable. See Notes 1 and 14. Other Items LEGAL MATTERS At September 30, 2022, there were no known contingent liabilities (including guarantees, pending litigation, taxes and other claims) that management believes will be material in relation to the Company's financial statements, nor were there any material commitments outside the normal course of business. NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS Effective October 1, 2021, the Company adopted three accounting standard updates which had an immaterial or no impact on the Company's financial statements for the year ended September 30, 2022. These included: • Updates to Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 805, Business Combinations , which clarify the accounting for contract assets and liabilities assumed in a business combination. In general, this will result in contract liabilities being recognized at their historical amounts under ASC 606, rather than at fair value in accordance with the general requirements of ASC 805. • Updates to ASC 740, Income Taxes , which require the recognition of a franchise tax that is partially based on income as an income-based tax with any incremental amount as a non-income based tax. These updates also make certain changes to intra-period tax allocation principles and interim tax calculations. • Updates to ASC 321, Equity Securities , ASC 323 Investments - Equity Method and Joint Ventures , and ASC 815, Derivatives and Hedging , which clarify how to account for the transition into and out of the equity method of accounting when evaluating observable transactions. In fiscal 2021, the Company adopted two accounting standard updates and one new accounting standard, and in fiscal 2020 adopted updates to ASC 815, all of which had an immaterial impact on the Company's financial statements. These included: • Updates to ASC 350, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other , which eliminate the requirement to measure impairment based on the implied fair value of goodwill compared to the carrying amount of a reporting unit’s goodwill. Instead, goodwill impairment will be measured as the excess of a reporting unit’s carrying amount over its estimated fair value. • Updates to ASC 350, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other , which align the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a software hosting arrangement with the requirements for costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software. • Adoption of ASC 326, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses , which amends the impairment model by requiring entities to use a forward-looking approach to estimate lifetime expected credit losses on certain types of financial instruments, including trade receivables. 33 • Updates to ASC 815, Derivatives and Hedging , which permit hedging certain contractually specified risk components. The updates also eliminate the requirement to separately measure and report hedge ineffectiveness and simplify hedge documentation and effectiveness assessment requirements. FISCAL 2023 OUTLOOK Following the announcement of its Climate Technologies divestiture, Emerson will report financial results for Climate Technologies, InSinkErator and Therm-O-Disc as discontinued operations for all periods presented, beginning in 2023. The earnings from discontinued operations for 2023 are expected to be $10 billion to $11 billion, or $17 to $19 per share, including the net gains on 2023 divestitures. Emerson expects order strength and backlog to support fiscal 2023 sales growth. For the full year, consolidated net sales from continuing operations are expected to be up 7 to 9 percent, with underlying sales up 6.5 to 8.5 percent excluding a 3.5 percent unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation and a 4 percent favorable impact from acquisitions net of divestitures. Earnings per share from continuing operations are expected to be $3.51 to $3.66 (which excludes any potential impact from the 45 percent common equity ownership in Climate Technologies' income or loss post-close), while adjusted earnings per share are expected to be $4.00 to $4.15, excluding a $0.13 per share impact from restructuring actions, a $0.61 per share impact from amortization of intangibles, $0.10 per share from interest income on the Climate Technologies note receivable, and $0.15 per share of interest income on undeployed proceeds from the Climate Technologies and InSinkErator divestitures. The Company's fiscal 2023 results from continuing operations after the Climate Technologies divestiture (assumed to close March 31, 2023 for purposes of the guidance above) will include interest income from the $2.25 billion note receivable from Climate Technologies and reflect the 45 percent common equity ownership in the income, or loss, of Climate Technologies. Emerson will not control Climate Technologies post-closing and is therefore unable to estimate the amount of its 45 percent share of Climate Technologies' post-close results. The Company will exclude the interest income from the note receivable from Climate Technologies and its 45 percent share of Climate Technologies' operations in its calculation of fiscal 2023 adjusted earnings per share. Also excluded from adjusted earnings per share is the interest income on any undeployed net proceeds. The effect of Emerson's 45 percent share of Climate Technologies is expected to be immaterial to post-closing cash flows. The fiscal 2023 outlook assumes approximately $1.2 billion of dividend payments and approximately $2 billion to be returned to shareholders through share repurchases.