********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Investing in our securities involves risks. You should carefully consider, among other matters, the factors set forth below and the other information in this report. The Company’s risk factors set forth below are not the only risks facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to management or that management currently deems immaterial also may materially, adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition or operating results. We may amend or supplement the risk factors set forth below from time to time by other reports we file with the SEC. Business and Operational Risks We Operate in Businesses That Are Subject to Competitive Pressures That Could Affect Prices or Demand for Our Products Our businesses operate in markets that are highly competitive and potentially volatile, and we compete on the basis of product performance, quality, service and/or price across the industries and markets served. Our businesses are largely dependent on the current and future business environment, including capital and consumer spending. A significant element of our competitive strategy is to deliver solutions to our customers by manufacturing high-quality products at the best relevant global cost. Various companies compete with us in one or more product lines and the number of competitors varies by product line. Some of our competitors have substantially greater sales, assets and financial resources than our Company and we also compete with many smaller companies. Competitive pressures could adversely affect prices or customer demand for our products, impacting our sales or profit margins, and/or resulting in a loss of market share. Our Operating Results Depend in Part on Continued Successful Research, Development and Marketing of New and/or Improved Products and Services, and There Can Be No Assurance That We Will Continue to Successfully Introduce New Products and Services The success of new and improved products and services depends on their initial and continued acceptance by our customers. Our businesses are affected by varying degrees of technological change and corresponding shifts in customer demand, which result in unpredictable product transitions, shortened life cycles and increased importance of bein g first to market with new products and services. We may experience difficulties or delays in the research, development, production and/or marketing of new products and services which may negatively impact our operating results and prevent us from recouping or realizing a return on the investments required to continue to bring new products and services to market. We must anticipate and respond to market and technological changes driven by broader trends such as decarbonization and electrification efforts in response to climate change. Market growth from the use of cleaner energy sources, as well as emissions management, energy efficiency, lower greenhouse gas refrigerant usage, and decarbonization efforts are likely to depend in part on technologies not yet deployed or widely adopted today. We may not adequately innovate or position our businesses for the adoption of technologies such as battery storage solutions, hydrogen use cases in industry, mobility, and power generation, enhanced electrical grid demand management, carbon capture and sequestration or advanced nuclear power. These trends and the relative competitiveness of our product and service offerings will continue to be impacted by uncertain factors such as the pace of technological developments and related cost considerations, the levels of economic growth in different markets around the world and the adoption of climate change-related policies such as carbon taxes, greenhouse gas emission reductions, incentives or mandates for particular types of energy, or policies that impact the availability of financing for certain types of projects. 8 If We Are Unable to Defend or Protect Our Intellectual Property Rights, the Company's Competitive Position Could Be Adversely Affected The Company's intellectual property rights are important to its business and include numerous patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and other confidential information. This intellectual property may be subject to challenge, infringement, invalidation or circumvention by third parties. Despite extensive security measures, our intellectual property may be subject to misappropriation through unauthorized access of our information technology systems, employee theft, or other acts of industrial espionage. Should the Company be unable to adequately defend or protect its intellectual property, it may suffer competitive harm. We Engage in Acquisitions and Divestitures, Which Are Subject to Domestic and Foreign Regulatory Requirements, and May Encounter Difficulties in Integrating and Separating These Businesses and Therefore We May Not Realize the Anticipated Benefits We regularly seek growth through strategic acquisitions as well as evaluate our portfolio for potential divestitures. These activities require favorable environments to execute these transactions, and we may encounter difficulties in obtaining the necessary regulatory approvals in both domestic and foreign jurisdictions. In 2021 and in past years, we have made various acquisitions and entered into joint venture arrangements intended to complement or expand our business, and may continue to do so in the future. The success of these transactions will depend on our ability to integrate assets and personnel acquired in these transactions and to cooperate with our strategic partners. We may encounter difficulties in integrating acquisitions with our operations as well as separating divested businesses, and in managing strategic investments. Furthermore, we may not realize the degree, or timing, of benefits we anticipate when we first enter into a transaction. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business and results of operations. The Planned Combination of Two of Our Industrial Software Businesses (OSI Inc. and the Geological Simulation Software businesses) with the Business of Aspen Technology, Inc., and our Planned Majority Stake in the Publicly Traded Entity that Holds Such Combined Businesses, May Not Be Completed Within the Currently Contemplated Time Frame, With the Expected Terms or Costs, and May Not Achieve the Intended Benefits We make no assurance regarding the terms, timing, costs or benefits anticipated from the planned combination with Aspen Technology, Inc. ("AspenTech"). Unforeseen developments, including possible delays in obtaining various regulatory and other approvals, could delay the proposed transaction, or cause it to occur on terms and conditions that are less favorable, or at a higher cost, than expected. Further, we may not realize some or all of the anticipated strategic, financial or other benefits of the planned combination. Completion of the proposed AspenTech transaction is subject to a number of conditions, including among other things, the receipt of approval from AspenTech's stockholders and the receipt of certain regulatory approvals, which make the completion and timing of the proposed transaction uncertain. In addition, the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic could delay the receipt of certain regulatory approvals. The failure to satisfy all of the required conditions could delay the completion of the proposed transaction for a significant period of time or prevent it from occurring at all. There can be no assurance that the conditions to the completion of the proposed AspenTech transaction will be satisfied or waived or that the proposed transaction will be completed. We Use a Variety of Raw Materials and Components in Our Businesses, and Significant Shortages or Price Increases Could Increase Our Operating Costs and Adversely Impact t he Competitive Positions of Our Products Our major requirements for raw materials include steel, copper, cast iron, electronics, rare earth metals, aluminum, brass and, to a lesser extent, plastics and petroleum-based chemicals. The Company seeks multiple sources of supply for each of its major requirements in order to avoid significant dependence on any one or a few suppliers. However, the supply of materials or other items could be disrupted by natural disasters, a health epidemic or pandemic, or other events. Significant shortages or price increases could impact the prices our affected businesses charge, their operating costs and the competitive position of their products and services, which could adversely affect our results of operations. While we monitor market prices of the commodities we require and attempt to mitigate price exposure through hedging activities, this risk could adversely affect our operating results. 9 Our Operations Depend on Production Facilities Throughout the World, a Majority of Which Are Located Outside the United States and Subject to Increased Risks of Disrupted Production, Causing Delays in Shipments and Loss of Customers and Revenue We manage businesses with manufacturing facilities worldwide, a majority of which are located outside the United States, and also source certain materials internationally. Emerging market sales represent over one-third of total sales and serving a global customer base requires that we place more materials sourcing and production in emerging markets to capitalize on market opportunities and maintain our best-cost position. Our and our suppliers’ international production facilities and operations could b e disrupted by weather and natural disaster (including the potential effects of climate change), labor strife, war, political unrest, terrorist activity or public health concerns such as an epidemic or pandemic, particularly in emerging countries that are not well-equip ped to handle such occurrences. Our manufacturing facilities abroad are dependent on the stability of governments and business conditions and may be more susceptible to changes in laws, policies and regulations in host countries, as well as economic and political upheaval, than our domestic facilities. These facilities face increased risks of nationalization as well as operational disruptions which could cause delays in shipments of products and the loss of sales and customers, and insurance proceeds may not adequately compensate us. Access to Funding Through the Capital Markets is Essential to the Execution of Our Business Plan, and if We Are Unable to Maintain Such Access We Could Experience a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business and Financial Results Our ability to invest in our businesses, make strategic acquisitions and refinance maturing debt obligations requires access to the capital markets and sufficient bank credit lines to support short-term borrowings. Volatility in the capital markets may increase costs associated with issuing commercial paper or other debt instruments, or affect the Company’s ability to access those markets. If we are unable to continue to access the capital markets, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Additionally, if our customers, suppliers or financial institutions are unable to access the capital markets to meet their commitments to the Company, our business could be adversely impacted. Our Business Success Depends on the Ability to Attract, Develop and Retain Key Personnel Our success depends in part on the efforts and abilities of our management and key employees. Their skills, experience and industry knowledge significantly benefit our operations and performance. The failure to attract, develop and retain highly qualified personnel could adversely affect our ability to succeed in our human capital goals and priorities as well as negatively impact our business and operating results. Security and/or Data Privacy Breaches, or Disruptions of Our Information Technology Systems Could Adversely Affect Our Business The Company relies on information technology networks and systems, including the internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes and activities. These technology networks and systems may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to failures during the process of upgrading or replacing software, databases or components; power outages; telecommunications or system failures; terrorist attacks; natural disasters; employee error or malfeasance; server or cloud provider breaches; and computer viruses or cyberattacks. Cybersecurity threats and incidents can range from uncoordinated individual attempts to gain unauthorized access to information technology networks and systems to more sophisticated and targeted measures, known as advanced persistent threats, directed at the Company, its products, its customers and/or its third-party service providers. Despite the implementation of cybersecurity measures (including access controls, data encryption, vulnerability assessments, continuous monitoring, and maintenance of backup and protective systems), the Company’s information technology systems may still be vulnerable to cybersecurity threats and other electronic security breaches. It is possible for such vulnerabilities to remain undetected for an extended period. In addition, it is possible a security breach could result in theft of trade secrets or other intellectual property or disclosure of confidential customer, supplier or employee information. Should the Company be unable to prevent security breaches or other damage to our information technology systems, disruptions could have an adverse effect on our operations, as well as expose the Company to litigation, liability or penalties under privacy laws, increased cybersecurity protection costs, reputational damage and product failure. In addition, we must comply with increasingly complex and rigorous regulatory standards enacted to protect business 10 and personal data in the U.S. and elsewhere. Compliance with privacy and localization laws and regulations increases operational complexity. Failure to comply with these regulatory standards could subject us to fines and penalties, as well as legal and reputational risks, including proceedings against the Company by governmental entities or others. Our Products and Services are Highly Sophisticated and Specialized, and a Major Product Failure or Similar Event Caused by Defects, Cybersecurity Incidents or Other Failures, Could Adversely Affect Our Business, Reputation, Financial Position and Results of Operations We produce highly sophisticated products and provide specialized services that incorporate or use complex or leading-edge technology, including both hardware and software. Many of our products and services, including measurement and analytical instrumentation, industrial valves and equipment, and process control systems, are integrated and used in complex process, hybrid and discrete manufacturing environments. As a result, the impact of a catastrophic product failure or similar event could be significant. While we have built operational processes to ensure that our product design, manufacture, performance and servicing meet rigorous quality standards, there can be no assurance that we or our customers or other third parties will not experience operational process or product failures and other problems, including through manufacturing or design defects, process or other failures of contractors or third-party suppliers, cybersecurity incidents or other intentional acts, that could result in potential product, safety, regulatory or environmental risks. Cybersecurity incidents aimed at the software embedded in our products could lead to third-party claims resulting from damages caused by our product failures, and this risk is enhanced by the increasingly connected nature of our products. The potential consequences of a material cybersecurity incident include financial loss, reputational damage, litigation with third parties, diminution in the value of our investment in research, development and engineering, and increased cybersecurity protection and remediation costs due to the increasing sophistication and proliferation of threats, which in turn could adversely affect our competitiveness and results of operations. Industry and General Economic Risks The Coronavirus (COVID-19) Outbreak Has Adversely Impacted our Business and Could in the Future Have a Material Adverse Impact on our Business, Results of Operation, Financial Condition and Liquidity, the Nature and Extent of Which is Highly Uncertain The global outbreak of the coronavirus (COVID-19) has significantly increased economic, demand and operational uncertainty. We have global operations, customers and suppliers, including in countries most impacted by COVID-19. Authorities around the world have taken a variety of measures to slow the spread of COVID-19, including travel bans or restrictions, increased border controls or closures, quarantines, shelter-in-place orders and business shutdowns and such authorities may impose additional restrictions. We have also taken actions to protect our employees and to mitigate the spread of COVID-19, including embracing guidelines set by the World Health Organization and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention on social distancing, good hygiene, restrictions on employee travel and in-person meetings, and changes to employee work arrangements including remote work arrangements where appropriate. Evolving government plans around the world to institute vaccination mandates, including in the U.S., create uncertainty that may impact our employees and result in labor shortages and unforeseen costs, which could negatively affect our results. These actions have and may continue to impact our employees, customers and suppliers, and future developments could cause further disruptions to Emerson due to the interconnected nature of our business relationships. The impact of COVID-19 on the global economy and our customers, as well as volatility in commodity markets (including oil prices), has negatively impacted demand for our products and could continue to do so in the future. Its effects could also result in further disruptions to our manufacturing operations, including higher rates of employee absenteeism, and supply chain, which could continue to negatively impact our ability to meet customer demand. Additionally, the potential deterioration and volatility of credit and financial markets could limit our ability to obtain external financing. The extent to which COVID-19 will impact our business, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity is highly uncertain and will depend on future developments, including the spread and duration of the virus, potential actions taken by governmental authorities, and how quickly economic conditions stabilize and recover. 11 Our Substantial Sales Both in the U.S. and Abroad Subject Us to Economic Risk as Our Results of Operations May Be Adversely Affected by Changes in Government Regulations and Policies and Currency Fluctuations We sell, manufacture, engineer and purchase products globally, with significant sales in both mature and emerging markets. We expect sales in non-U.S. markets to continue to represent a significant portion of our total sales. Our U.S. and international operations subject the Company to changes in government regulations and policies in a large number of jurisdictions around the world, including those related to trade, investments, taxation, exchange controls and repatriation of earnings. Changes in laws or policies governing the terms of foreign trade, trade restrictions or barriers, tariffs or taxes, trade protection measures, and retaliatory countermeasures, including on imports from countries where we manufacture products, could adversely impact our business and financial results. In addition, changes in the relative values of currencies occur from time to time and have affected our operating results and could do so in the future. While we monitor our exchange rate exposures and attempt to mitigate this exposure through hedging activities, this risk could adversely affect our operating results. Recessions, Adverse Market Conditions or Downturns in End Markets We Serve May Negatively Affect Our Operations In th e past, our operations have been exposed to significant volatility due to changes in general economic conditions or consumer preferences, recessions or adverse conditions in the end markets we serve. In the future, similar changes could adversely impact overall sales, operating results (including potential impairment charges for goodwill or other long-lived assets) and cash flows. Moreover, during economic downturns we may undertake more extensive restructuring actions, including workforce reductions, global facility consolidations, centralization of certain business support activities, and other cost reduction initiatives, and incur higher costs. As these plans and actions can be complex, the anticipated operational improvements, efficiencies and other benefits might be delayed or not realized. Legal and Regulatory Risks Changes in Tax Rates, Laws or Regulations and the Resolution of Tax Disputes Could Adversely Impact Our Financial Results As a global company, we are subject to taxation in the U.S. and numerous non-U.S. jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required to determine our consolidated income tax provision and related liabilities. The Company’s effective tax rate, cash flows and operating results could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with different statutory tax rates, as well as by changes in the local tax laws and regulations, or the interpretations thereof. In addition, the Company’s tax returns are subject to regular review and audit by U.S. and non-U.S. tax authorities. While we believe our tax provisions are appropriate, the final outcome of tax audits or disputes could result in adjustments to the Company’s tax liabilities, which could adversely affect our financial results. Our Reputation, Ability To Do Business and Results of Operations Could Be Impaired By Improper Conduct By Any of Our Employees, Agents or Business Partners We are subject to regulation under a wide variety of U.S. federal and state and non-U.S. laws, regulations and policies, including laws related to anti-corruption, anti-bribery, export and import compliance, anti-trust and money laundering, due to our global operations. In particular, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business, and we operate in many parts of the world that have experienced government corruption to some degree. We cannot provide assurance our internal controls will always protect us from the improper conduct of our employees, agents and business partners. Any such violation of law or improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal investigations in the U.S. and other jurisdictions, could lead to substantial civil or criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties and related shareholder lawsuits, could lead to increased costs of compliance and could damage our reputation, our business and results of operations. We Are Subject to Litigation and Environmental Regulations That Could Adversely Impact Our Operating Results We are, and may in the future be, a party to a number of legal proceedings and claims, including those involving intellectual property, product liability (including asbestos) and environmental matters, several of which claim, or may in the future claim, si gnificant damages. Given the inherent uncertainty of litigation, we can offer no assurance that 12 existing litigation or a future adverse development will not have a material adverse impact. We also are subject to various laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and the discharge of materials into the environment, and we could incur substantial costs as a result of the noncompliance with or liability for cleanup or other costs or damages under environmental laws. In addition, increased public awareness and concern regarding global climate change may result in more international, federal, and/or state or other stakeholder requirements or expectations that could result in more restrictive or expansive standards, such as stricter limits on greenhouse gas emissions or more prescriptive reporting of environmental, social, and governance metrics. There continues to be a lack of consistent climate change legislation and standards, which creates economic and regulatory uncertainty. While the Company has adopted certain voluntary targets, environmental laws, regulations or standards may be changed, accelerated or adopted and impose significant operational restrictions and compliance requirements upon the Company, its products or customers, which could negatively impact the Company’s business, capital expenditures, results of operations, financial condition and competitive position.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

Safe Harbor Statement This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains various forward-looking statements and includes assumptions concerning Emerson's operations, future results and prospects. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Emerson undertakes no obligation to update any such statements to reflect later developments. In connection with the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Emerson provides the cautionary statements set forth under Item 1A - “Risk Factors,” which are hereby incorporated by reference and identify important economic, political and technological factors, among others, changes in which could cause the actual results or events to differ materially from those set forth in or implied by the forward-looking statements and related assumptions. Non-GAAP Financial Measures To supplement the Company’s financial information presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP), management periodically uses certain “non-GAAP financial measures,” as such term is defined in Regulation G under SEC rules, to clarify and enhance understanding of past performance and 15 prospects for the future. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company’s operating performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes or includes amounts that are included in or excluded from the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP. For exa mple, non-GAAP measures may exclude the impact of certain items such as acquisitions or divestitures, amortization of intangibles, restructuring costs, discrete taxes, ch anges in reporting segments, gains, losses and impairments, or items outside of management’s control, such as foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Management believes that the following non-GAAP financial measures provide investors and analysts useful insight into the Company’s financial position and operating performance. Any non-GAAP measure provided should be viewed in addition to, and not as an alternative to, the most directly comparable measure determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, as identified in italics below. Further, the calculation of these non-GAAP financial measures may differ from the calculation of similarly titled financial measures presented by other companies and therefore may not be comparable among companies. Underlying sales, which exclude the impact of acquisitions, divestitures and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates during the periods presented, are provided to facilitate relevant period-to-period comparisons of sales growth by excluding those items that impact overall comparability (U.S. GAAP measure: net sales ). Operating profit (defined as net sales less cost of sales and selling, general and administrative expenses) and operating profit margin (defined as operating profit divided by net sales) are indicative of short-term operational performance and ongoing profitability. Management closely monitors operating profit and operating profit margin of each business to evaluate past performance and actions required to improve profitability. EBIT (defined as earnings before deductions for interest expense, net and income taxes) and total segment EBIT, and EBIT margin (defined as EBIT divided by net sales) and total segment EBIT margin, are financial measures that exclude the impact of financing on the capital structure and income taxes. EBITDA (defined as EBIT excluding depreciation and amortization) and EBITDA margin (defined as EBITDA divided by net sales) are used as measures of the Company's current operating performance, as they exclude the impact of capital and acquisition-related investments. All of these are commonly used financial measures utilized by management to evaluate performance (U.S. GAAP measures: pretax earnings or pretax profit margin ). Earnings, earnings per share, return on common stockholders’ equity and return on total capital excluding certain gains and losses, impairments, restructuring costs, impacts of acquisitions or divestitures, amortization of intangibles, discrete taxes, or other items provide additional insight into the underlying, ongoing operating performance of the Company and facilitate period-to-period comparisons by excluding the earnings impact of these items. Management believes that presenting earnings, earnings per share, return on common stockholders' equity and return on total capital excluding these items is more representative of the Company’s operational performance and may be more useful for investors (U.S. GAAP measures: earnings, earnings per share, return on common stockholders’ equity, return on total capital ). Free cash flow (operating cash flow less capital expenditures) and free cash flow as a percent of net sales are indicators of the Company’s cash generating capabilities, and dividends as a percent of free cash flow is an indicator of the Company's ability to support its dividend, after considering investments in capital assets which are necessary to maintain and enhance existing operations. The determination of operating cash flow adds back noncash depreciation expense to earnings and thereby does not reflect a charge for necessary capital expenditures. Management believes that free cash flow, free cash flow as a percent of net sales and dividends as a percent of free cash flow are useful to both management and investors as measures of the Company’s ability to generate cash and support its dividend (U.S. GAAP measures: operating cash flow, operating cash flow as a percent of net sales, dividends as a percent of operating cash flow ). 16 FINANCIAL REVIEW Report of Management The Company's management is responsible for the integrity and accuracy of the financial statements. Management believes that the financial statements for each of the years in the three-year period ended September 30, 2021 have been prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles appropriate in the circumstances. In preparing the financial statements, management makes informed judgments and estimates where necessary to reflect the expected effects of events and transactions that have not been completed. The Company's disclosure controls and procedures ensure that material information required to be disclosed is recorded, processed, summarized and communicated to management and reported within the required time periods. In meeting its responsibility for the reliability of the financial statements, management relies on a system of internal accounting controls. This system is designed to provide reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded and transactions are executed in accordance with management's authorization and recorded properly to permit the preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The design of this system recognizes that errors or irregularities may occur and that estimates and judgments are required to assess the relative cost and expected benefits of the controls. Management believes that the Company's internal accounting controls provide reasonable assurance that errors or irregularities that could be material to the financial statements are prevented or would be detected within a timely period. The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors, which is composed solely of independent directors, is responsible for overseeing the Company's financial reporting process. The Audit Committee meets with management and the Company's internal auditors periodically to review the work of each and to monitor the discharge by each of its responsibilities. The Audit Committee also meets periodically with the independent auditors, who have free access to the Audit Committee and the Board of Directors, to discuss the quality and acceptability of the Company's financial reporting and internal controls, as well as nonaudit-related services. The independent auditors are engaged to express an opinion on the Company's consolidated financial statements and on the Company's internal control over financial reporting. Their opinions are based on procedures that they believe to be sufficient to provide reasonable assurance that the financial statements contain no material errors and that the Company's internal controls are effective. Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting The Company's management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for the Company. With the participation of the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting based on the framework and the criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013), issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on this evaluation, management has concluded that internal control over financial reporting was effective as of September 30, 2021. The Company's auditor, KPMG LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, has issued an audit report on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. 17 Results of Operations Years ended September 30 (Dollars in Item 7 are in millions, except per share amounts or where noted) OVERVIEW Overall, sales for 2021 were $18.2 billion, up 9 percent compared with the prior year, supported by foreign currency translation which added 3 percent and the Open Systems International, Inc. ("OSI") acquisition which added 1 percent. Sales recovered to the levels achieved in 2019 prior to the outbreak and spread of COVID-19, reflecting the Company's strong rebound from the broad challenges faced in fiscal 2020. Further, the Company's restructuring and cost reset actions that began in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 and which were increased in response to COVID-19 contributed to strong profitability and a significant decrease in SG&A expenses as a percent of sales. Net earnings common stockholders were $2,303 in 2021, up 17 percent compared with prior year earnings of $1,965, and diluted earnings per share were $3.82, up 18 percent versus $3.24 per share in 2020, reflecting strong operating results. The Company generated operating cash flow of $3.6 billion in 2021, an increase of $492, or 16 percent, due to higher earnings. NET SALES Net sales for 2021 were $18.2 billion, an increase of $1.5 billion, or 9 percent compared with 2020. Sales increased $455 in Automation Solutions and $1,010 in Commercial & Residential Solutions. Underlying sales, which exclude foreign currency translation, acquisitions and divestitures, increased 5 percent on higher volume and slightly higher price. The OSI acquisition added 1 percent and foreign currency translation added 3 percent. Underlying sales increased 5 percent in the U.S. and 5 percent internationally. Net sales for 2020 were $16.8 billion, a decrease of $1.6 billion, or 9 percent compared with 2019, as the global outbreak and spread of COVID-19 resulted in a rapid decline in demand which impacted most of the Company's end markets and geographies in the second half of the year. Sales decreased $1,047 in Automation Solutions and 18 $526 in Commercial & Residential Solutions. Underlying sales decreased 8 percent on lower volume, while foreign currency translation subtracted 1 percent. Underlying sales decreased 11 percent in the U.S. and 5 percent internationally. INTERNATIONAL SALES Emerson is a global business with international sales representing 57 percent of total sales in 2021, including U.S. exports. The Company generally expects faster economic growth in emerging markets in Asia, Latin America, Eastern Europe and Middle East/Africa. International destination sales, including U.S. exports, increased 10 percent, to $10.3 billion in 2021, reflecting increases in both the Automation Solutions and Commercial & Residential Solutions businesses. U.S. exports of $1.1 billion were up 12 percent compared with 2020. Underlying international destination sales were up 5 percent, as foreign currency translation had a 4 percent favorable impact on the comparison and the OSI acquisition added 1 percent. Underlying sales increased 5 percent in Europe, 5 percent in Asia, Middle East & Africa (China up 15 percent), 9 percent in Latin America and 1 percent in Canada. Origin sales by international subsidiaries, including shipments to the U.S., totaled $9.3 billion in 2021, up 9 percent compared with 2020. International destination sales, including U.S. exports, decreas ed 6 percent, to $9.4 billion in 2020 , reflecting decreases in both the Automation Solutions and Commercial & Residential Solutions businesses. U.S. exports of $1.0 billion were down 10 percent compared with 2019. Underlying international destination sales were down 5 percent, as foreign currency translation had a 1 percent unfavorable impact on the comparison. Underlyi ng sales decreased 4 percent in Europe, 4 percent in Asia, Middle East & Africa (China down 5 percent), 7 percent in Latin America and 11 percent in Canada. Origin sales by international subsidiaries, including shipments to the U.S., totaled $8.5 billion in 2020 , down 5 percent compared with 2019. ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES On October 11, 2021, the Company announced that it entered into a definitive agreement with Aspen Technology, Inc. ("AspenTech") to combine two of Emerson's stand-alone industrial software businesses, Open Systems International, Inc. ("OSI") and the geological simulation software business, along with a contribution of $6.0 billion in cash to AspenTech shareholders, to create "new AspenTech", a diversified, high-performance industrial software leader with greater scale, capabilities and technologies. Upon closing of the transaction, the Company will own 55 percent of new AspenTech and its results and financial position will be fully consolidated in Emerson's financial statements. On a pro forma basis, new AspenTech is expected to have fiscal 2022 revenues of $1.1 billion. The transaction is expected to close in the second calendar quarter of 2022 and is subject to approval by AspenTech shareholders, regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions. See Item 1A - "Risk Factors" for additional information. On October 1, 2020, the Company completed the acquisition of OSI, a leading operations technology software provider in the global power industry, for approximately $1.6 billion, net of cash acquired. This business had net sales of $191 in fiscal 2021 and is reported in the Automation Solutions segment. In 2020, the Company acquired three businesses, two in the Automation Solutions segment and one in the Climate Technologies segment, for $126 , net of cash acquired. These three businesses had combined annual sales of approximately $50. The Company acquired eight businesses in 2019, all in the Automation Solutions segment, for $469, net of cash acquired. These eight businesses had combined annual sales of approximately $300. See Note 4 for further information on acquisitions and divestitures. COST OF SALES Cost of sales for 2021 were $10,673, an increase of $897 compared with $9,776 in 2020, primarily due to higher sales volume in Commercial & Residential Solutions, foreign currency translation, and the OSI acquisition which added $112 including intangibles amortization of $39. Gross profit was $7,563 in 2021 compared to $7,009 in 2020, while gross margin decreased 0.3 percentage points to 41.5 percent, as leverage on higher sales volume was offset 19 by unfavorable price-cost in Commercial & Residential Solutions primarily driven by higher steel prices, intangibles amortization from the OSI acquisition which deducted 0.2 percentage points, and unfavorable mix. Cost of sales for 2020 were $9,776, a decrease of $781 compared with $10,557 in 2019, primarily due to lower volume. Gross profit was $7,009 in 2020 compared to $7,815 in 2019, while gross margin decreased 0.7 percentage points to 41.8 percent, reflecting deleverage on lower sales volume and unfavorable mix within Automation Solutions, partially offset by favorable price-cost. SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES SG&A expenses of $4,179 in 2021 increased $193 compared with 2020 on higher stock compensation expense, as well as increased sales volume. SG&A as a percent of sales decreased 0.9 percentage points to 22.9 percent, reflecting increased savings of approximately $240 from the Company's restructuring and cost reset actions, partially offset by higher stock compensation expense of $114 (0.6 percentage points) due to a higher share price in the current year. SG&A expenses of $3,986 in 2020 decreased $471 compared with 2019 and SG&A as a percent of sales decreased 0.4 percentage points to 23.8 percent. Savings of approximately $220 from the Company's restructuring and cost reset actions that began in the third quarter of fiscal 2019 offset deleverage on lower sales volume. The Company also benefited in the second half of the year from a salary and hiring freeze, furloughs, compensation reductions for the Board of Directors and key executives across Emerson, and curtailed travel, meetings and discretionary spending. OTHER DEDUCTIONS, NET Other deductions, net were $318 in 2021, a decrease of $214 compared with 2020, reflecting lower restructuring costs of $134, investment-related gains, including gains in the first quarter of fiscal 2021 of $21 from an investment sale and $17 from the acquisition of full ownership of an equity investment, and a gain in the second quarter of $31 from the sale of an equity investment, a favorable impact from pensions, and favorable foreign currency transactions of $17. These items were partially offset by higher intangibles amortization of $61, primarily related to the OSI acquisition. See Notes 5 and 6. Other deductions, net were $532 in 2020, an increase of $207 compared with 2019. The increase reflects increased restructuring costs of $189 and special advisory fees of $13. INTEREST EXPENSE, NET Interest expense, net was $154 , $156 and $174 in 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The decreases in 2021 and 2020 reflect the maturity of long-term debt with relatively higher interest rates, partially offset by lower interest income. EARNINGS BEFORE INCOME TAXES Pretax earnings of $2,912 increased $577 in 2021, up 25 percent compared with 2020. Earnings increased $425 in Automation Solutions and $246 in Commercial & Residential Solutions. Costs reported at Corporate increased $96, reflecting higher stock compensation expense of $114 and first year acquisition accounting charges and fees related to the OSI acquisition of $50, partially offset by the investment-related gains discussed above and lower unallocated pension and postretirement costs which decreased by $41. See the Business Segments discussion that follows and Note 18. Pretax earnings of $2,335 decreased $524 in 2020, down 18 percent compared with 2019. Earnings decreased $424 in Automation Solutions and $153 in Commercial & Residential Solutions. Costs reported at Corporate decreased $35, as an increase in unallocated pension and postretirement costs of $55 was more than offset by a decline in all other corporate costs of $90. INCOME TAXES In come taxes were $585, $345 and $531 for 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively, resulting in effective tax rates of 20 percent, 15 percent and 19 percent in 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The tax rates for 2021, 2020 and 2019 included benefits from restructuring subsidiaries of $13, $103 and $74, respectively. The 2020 rate also included the impact of a research and development tax credit study, while 2019 included a $13 discrete tax benefit due to the issuance of final regulations related to the one-time tax on deemed repatriation. See Note 14. 20 NET EARNINGS AND EARNINGS PER SHARE Net earnings attributable to common stockholders in 2021 were $2,303, up 17 percent compared with 2020, and diluted earnings per share were $3.82, up 18 percent compared with $3.24 in 2020 due to improved operating results reflecting significant savings from the Company's restructuring and cost reset actions and leverage on higher sales volume in Commercial & Residential Solutions. Net earnings attributable to common stockholders in 2020 were $1,965, down 15 percent compared with 2019, and diluted earnings per share were $3.24, down 13 percent compared with $3.71 in 2019. Reduced operating results reflected a decline in sales volume largely attributable to the negative effects of COVID-19, while restructuring expense increased significantly due to the Company's cost reset actions that began in the third quarter of fiscal 2019. The tables below present the Company's diluted earnings per share on an adjusted basis to facilitate period-to-period comparisons and provide additional insight into the underlying, ongoing operating performance of the Company. Certain non-operational items are excluded from the calculation of adjusted earnings per share as noted below. In addition, adjusted earnings per share excludes the impact of restructuring expense due to the Company's significant cost reset actions that began in the third quarter of fiscal 2019. The table below summarizes the changes in adjusted diluted earnings per share. The items identified below are discussed throughout MD&A, see further discussion above and in the Business Segments and Financial Position sections below. RETURNS ON EQUITY AND TOTAL CAPITAL Return on common stockholder s' equity (net earnings attributable to common stockholders divided by average common stockholders' equity) was 25.2 percent in 2021 compared with 23.6 percent in 2020 and 26.8 percent in 2019. Return on total capital (computed as net earnings attributable to common stockholders excluding after-tax net interest expense, divided by average common stockholders' equity plus short- and l ong-term debt less cash and short-term investments) was 18.1 percent in 2021 compared with 16.8 percent in 2020 and 19.5 percent in 2019 . Returns in 2021 reflected higher net earnings, while lower net earnings negatively impacted returns in 2020. 21 Business Segments Following is an analysis of segment results for 2021 compared with 2020, and 2020 compared with 2019. In fiscal 2021, the Company reclassified certain software product sales that were previously reported in Measurement and Analytical Instrumentation to Systems & Software (previously described as Process Control Systems & Solutions). The Company defines segment earnings as earnings before interest and income taxes. 2021 vs. 2020 - Automation Solutions sales were $11.6 billion in 2021, an increase of $455, or 4 percent. Underlying sales were flat as higher prices offset slightly lower volume. Discrete and hybrid markets exhibited strength throughout the year while longer cycle process automation markets began to recover in the second half of the year, including a sharp recovery in core North American automation markets. The OSI acquisition added 2 percent and foreign currency translation had a 2 percent favorable impact. Sales for Measurement & Analytical Instrumentation decreased $37, or 1 percent, as process industries were weak in the first half of the year, but have improved sequentially as markets continue to recover from the impacts of COVID-19. Valves, Actuators & Regulators decreased $106, or 3 percent, reflecting slower demand in most end markets, particularly in North America and Europe, partially offset by modest growth in Asia. Industrial Solutions sales increased $254, or 13 percent, on strong growth in Europe and robust growth in China, while North American discrete end markets were up moderately. Systems & Software increased $344, or 14 percent, reflecting the impact of the OSI acquisition which added $191. Process end markets were strong in Europe and had moderate growth in Asia while North America was flat. Power generation end markets were solid in North America and strong in Europe, partially offset by softness in Asia. Underlying sales decreased 2 percent in the Americas (U.S. down 3 percent), increased 1 percent in Europe and 2 percent in Asia, Middle East & Africa (China up 14 percent). Earnings of $1,948 increased $425 from the prior year, and m argin increased 3.2 percentage points to 16.8 percent, as significant savings from cost reduction actions and favorable price-cost more than offset higher performance-based compensation expense. Lower restructuring expense benefited margins 0.9 percentage points, while intangibles amortization of $66 from the OSI acquisition reduced margin 0.6 percentage points. 2020 vs. 2019 - Automation Solutions sales were $11.2 billion in 2020, a decrease of $1,047, or 9 percent, reflecting the negative effects of COVID-19 which impacted most end markets and geographies in the second half of the year, particularly in North America. Underlying sales decreased 8 percent on lower volume. The Machine Automation Solutions acquisition added $47 and foreign currency translation had a 1 percent unfavorable impact. Sales for Measurement & Analytical Instrumentation decreased $507, or 14 percent, due to weakness in process industries, primarily in North America. Valves, Actuators & Regulators decreased $205, or 5 percent, reflecting slower demand in most end markets. Industrial Solutions sales decreased $220, or 10 percent, on lower global demand in discrete end markets. Systems & Software decreased $115, or 4 percent, due to weakness in power generation end markets in China and process end markets in the U.S., partially offset by the Machine Automation Solutions acquisition. Underlying sales decreased 14 percent in the Americas (U.S. down 14 percent), 5 percent in Europe, and 1 percent in Asia, Middle East & Africa (China down 2 percent). Earnings of $1,523 decreased $424 from the prior year, primarily due to higher restructuring expenses of $179 and lower volume. Margin decreased 2.4 percentage points 22 to 13.6 percent, reflecting a negative impact from restructuring expenses of 1.7 percentage points and unfavorable mix. Savings from cost reduction actions offset deleverage on lower sales volume. 2021 vs. 2020 - Commercial & Residential Solutions sales were $6.7 billion in 2021, an increase of $1,010, or 18 percent. Underlying sales increased 16 percent on strong global demand, as nearly all businesses achieved double-digit growth each quarter, while foreign currency translation added 2 percent. Climate Technologies sales were $4.7 billion in 2021, an increase of $768, or 19 percent. Air conditioning an d heating sales were up mid-teens, reflecting strong demand for residential-oriented products and solutions in North America and robust growth in Europe and China. Cold chain sales were up over 20 percent, driven by favorable global market conditions and strength in food retail and aftermarket. Tools & Home Products sales were $1.9 billion in 2021, up $242 or 15 percent compared to the prior year. Sales of wet/dry vacuums were robust in part due to competitor outages, while sales were strong for global professional tools and solid for food waste disposers . Overall, underlying sales increased 16 percent in the Americas (U.S. up 15 percent) and 17 percent in Europe, while Asia, Middle East & Africa increased 17 percent (China up 17 percent). Earnings were $1,364, an increase of $246, and margin was up 0.7 percentage points, reflecting leverage on higher volume and savings from cost reduction actions, partially offset by unfavorable price-cost primarily due to steel price increases which negatively impacted the second half of the fiscal year. 2020 vs. 2019 - Commercial & Residential Solutions sales were $5.6 billion in 2020, a decrease of $526, or 9 percent. Underlying sales decreased 7 percent on lower volume. The divestiture of two small non-core businesses subtracted 1 percent and foreign currency translation deducted 1 percent. Climate Technologies sales were $4.0 billion in 2020, a decrease of $333, or 8 percent. Air conditioning and heating sales declined, reflecting a sharp decline in Asia and moderate decline in the U.S. due to the effects of COVID-19. Global cold chain sales were also down, reflecting double-digit declines in Asia and Europe, while North America was down moderately. Tools & Home Products sales were $1.7 billion in 2020, down $193 or 10 percent compared to the prior year, reflecting sharp declines in global professional tools markets. Sales for wet/dry vacuums were down moderately and food waste disposers were down slightly. Overall, underlying sales decreased 7 percent in the Americas (U.S. down 8 percent) and 3 percent in Europe, while Asia, Middle East & Africa decreased 11 percent (China down 11 percent). Earnings were $1,118, a decrease of $153, and margin was down 0.8 percentage points, due to deleverage on lower sales volume and higher restructuring expenses which negatively impacted margins by 0.5 percentage points, partially offset by savings from cost reduction actions and favorable price-cost. Financial Position, Liquidity and Capital Resources Emerson maintains a conservative financial structure to provide the strength and flexibility necessary to achieve our strategic objectives and has been successful in efficiently deploying cash where needed worldwide to fund operations, complete acquisitions and sustain long-term growth. Emerson is in a strong financial position, with total assets of $25 billion and stockholders' equity of $10 billion, and has the resources available for reinvestment in existing businesses, strategic acquisitions and managing its capital structure on a short- and long-term basis. 23 The Company continues to generate substantial operating cash flow, including significant growth in fiscal 2021 and over $3.0 billion in each of the last three years. Cash flows have been and are expected to be sufficient for at least the next 12 months to meet the Company’s operating requirements, including those related to salaries and wages, working capital, capital expenditures, and other liquidity requirements associated with operations. The Company also has certain contractual obligations, primarily long-term debt and operating leases (see Notes 7, 10 and 11). The Company currently believes that sufficient funds will be available to meet its needs for the foreseeable future through operating cash flow, existing resources, short- and long-term debt capacity, or its $3.5 billion revolving backup credit facility under which it has not incurred any borrowings. Operating cash flow for 2021 was $3.6 billion, a $492, or 16 percent increase compared with 2020, due to higher earnings. Operating cash flow of $3.1 billion in 2020 increased 3 percent compared to $3.0 billion in 2019, as lower working ca pital needs associated with lower demand more than offset a decrease in earnings.  At September 30, 2021, operating working capital as a percent of sales was 3.9 percent compared with 5.2 percent in 2020 and 6.1 percent in 2019. Contributions to pension plans were $41 in 2021, $66 in 2020 and $60 in 2019. Capital expenditures were $581, $538 and $594 in 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Free cash flow (operating cash flow less capital expenditures) was $3.0 billion in 2021, up 18 percent. Free cash flow was $2.5 billion in 2020, compared with $2.4 billion in 2019. The Company is targeting capital spending of approximately $650 in 2022. Net cash paid in connection with acquisitions was $1,611, $126 and $469 in 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. On March 27, 2020, the CARES Act was enacted in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, and among other things, provided tax relief to businesses. Tax provisions of the CARES Act included the deferral of certain payroll taxes, relief for retaining employees, and other provisions. The Company deferred $73 of certain payroll taxes through the end of calendar year 2020, half of which is due in December 2021 with the remainder due in December 2022. Dividends were $1,210 ($2.02 per share) in 2021, compared with $1,209 ($2.00 per share) in 2020 and $1,209 ($1.96 per share) in 2019. In November 2021, the Board of Directors voted to increase the quarterly cash dividend 2 percent, to an annualized rate of $2.06 per share. Purchases of Emerson common stock totaled $500, $942 and $1,250 in 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively, at average per share prices of $94.65, $57.41 and $62.83. The Board of Directors authorized the purchase of up to 70 million common shares in November 2015. In March 2020, the Board of Directors authorized the purchase of an additional 60 million shares and a total of approximately 60 million shares remain available for purchase under the authorizations. The Company purchase d 5.3 mi llion shares in 2021, 16.4 million shares in 2020 and 19.9 million shares in 2019 under the authorizations. 24 Total debt, which includes long-term debt, current maturities of long-term debt, commercial paper and other short-term borrowings, was $6,665, $7,486 an d $5,721 as of September 30, 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. During the year, the Company repaid $300 of 4.25% notes tha t matured in November 2020 . In 2020, the Company repaid $500 of 4.875% notes that matured in October 2019, while $400 of 5.25% notes that matured in October 2018 and $250 of 5.0% notes that matured in April 2019 were paid in fiscal 2019. In April 2020, the Company issued $500 of 1.8% notes due October 2027, $500 of 1.95% notes due October 2030 and $500 of 2.75% notes due October 2050, and in September 2020, the Company issued $750 of 0.875% notes due October 2026. In January 2019, the Company issued €500 of 1.25% notes due October 2025 and €500 of 2.0% notes due October 2029, and in May 2019, the Company issued €500 of 0.375% notes due May 2024. The net proceeds from the sale of the notes were used to reduce commercial paper borrowings and for general corporate purposes. A portion of the proceeds from the notes issued in September 2020 were also used to fund the acquisition of OSI, which closed on October 1, 2020. The total debt-to-total capi tal ratio and net debt-to-net capital ratio (less cash and short-term investments) decreased in 2021 due to lower long-term debt and higher equity compared to the prior year. In 2020 the total debt-to-total capital ratio increased due to the long-term debt issuances described above. The net debt-to-net capital ratio decreased slightly, reflecting the timing of the acquisition of OSI, which closed shortly after fiscal 2020 year-end. The operating cash flow-to-debt ratio increased in 2021 due to higher cash flow and lower debt. The decrease in 2020 was due to the increased borrowings. The interest coverage ratio is computed as earnings before income taxes plus interest expense, divided by interest expense. The increase in 2021 reflects higher earnings and slightly lower interest expense. The decrea se in 2020 reflects lower earnings, partially offset by lower interest expense. In May 2018, the Company entered into a $3.5 billion five-year revolving backup credit facility with various banks, which replaced the April 2014 $3.5 billion facility. The credit facility is maintained to support general corporate purposes, including commercial paper borrowings. The Company has not incurred any borrowings under this or previous facilities. The credit facility contains no financial covenants and is not subject to termination based on a change of credit rating or material adverse changes. The facility is unsecured and may be accessed under various interest rate alternatives at the Company’s option. Fees to maintain the facility are immaterial. The Company also maintains a universal shelf registration statement on file with the SEC under which it can issue debt securities, preferred stock, common stock, warrants, share purchase contracts or share purchase units without a predetermined limit. Securities can be sold in one or more separate offerings with the size, price and terms to be determined at the time of sale. Emerson's financial structure provides the flexibility necessary to achieve its strategic objectives. The Company has been successful in efficiently deploying cash where needed worldwide to fund operations, complete acquisitions and sustain long-term growth. At September 30, 2021, substantially all of the Company's cash was held outside of the U.S. (primarily in Europe and Asia). The Company routinely repatriates a portion of its no n-U.S. cash from earnings each year, or otherwise when it can be accomplished tax efficiently, and provides for withholding taxes and any applicable U.S. income taxes as appropriate. The Company has been able to readily meet all its funding requirements and currently believes that sufficient funds will be available to meet the Company's needs in the foreseeable future through operating cash flow, existing resources, short- and long-term debt capacity or backup credit lines. 25 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Company is exposed to market risk related to changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices, and selectively uses derivative financial instruments, including forwards, swaps and purchased options to manage these risks. The Company does not hold derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. The value of derivatives and other financial instruments is subject to change as a result of market movements in rates and prices. Sensitivity analysis is one technique used to forecast the impact of these movements. Based on a hypothetical 10 percent increase in interest rates, a 10 percent decrease in commodity prices or a 10 percent weakening in the U.S. dollar across all currencies, the potential losses in future earnings, fair value or cash flows are not material. Sensitivity analysis has limitations; for example, a weaker U.S. dollar would benefit future earnings through favorable translation of non-U.S. operating results, and lower commodity prices would benefit future earnings through lower cost of sales. See Notes 1, and 9 through 11. Critical Accounting Policies Preparation of the Company's financial statements requires management to make judgments, assumptions and estimates regarding uncertainties that could affect reported revenue, expenses, assets, liabilities and equity. Note 1 describes the significant accounting policies used in preparation of the consolidated financial statements. The most significant areas where management judgments and estimates impact the primary financial statements are described below. Actual results in these areas could differ materially from management's estimates under different assumptions or conditions. REVENUE RECOGNITION The Company evaluates its contracts with customers to identify the promised goods or services and recognizes revenue for the identified performance obligations at the amount the Company expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. A performance obligation is a promise in a contract to transfer a distinct good or service to a customer. Revenue is recognized when, or as, performance obligations are satisfied and control has transferred to the customer, typically when products are shipped or delivered, title and risk of loss pass to the customer, and the Company has a present right to payment. The vast majority of the Company's revenues relate to a broad offering of manufactured products which are recognized at the point in time when control transfers, generally in accordance with shipping terms. A portion of the Company's revenues relate to the sale of software and post-contract customer support, parts and labor for repairs, and engineering services. In limited circumstances, contracts include multiple performance obligations, where revenue is recognized separately for each good or service, as well as contracts where revenue is recognized over time as control transfers to the customer. Tangible products represent a large majority of the delivered items in contracts with multiple performance obligations or where revenue is recognized over time, while a smaller portion is attributable to installation, service and maintenance. In sales arrangements that involve multiple performance obligations, revenue is allocated based on the relative standalone selling price for each performance obligation. Observable selling prices from actual transactions are used whenever possible. In other instances, the Company determines the standalone selling price based on third-party pricing or management's best estimate. For revenues recognized over time, the Company typically uses an input method to determine progress and recognize revenue, based on costs incurred. The Company believes costs incurred closely correspond with its performance under the contract and the transfer of control to the customer. LONG-LIVED ASSETS Long-lived assets, which include property, plant and equipment, goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in business circumstances indicate impairment may exist. If the Company determines that the carrying value of a long-lived asset may not be recoverable, a permanent impairment charge is recorded for the amount by which the carrying value of the long-lived asset exceeds its estimated fair value. Reporting units are also reviewed for possible goodwill impairment at least annually, in the fourth quarter. If an initial assessment indicates it is more likely than not an impairment may exist, it is evaluated by comparing the reporting unit's estimated fair value to its carrying value. Fair value is generally estimated using an income approach that discounts estimated future cash flows using discount rates judged by management to be commensurate with the applicable risk. Estimates of future sales, operating results, cash flows and discount rates are subject to changes in the economic environment, including such factors as the general level of market interest rates, expected equity market returns and the volatility of markets served, particularly when recessionary economic circumstances continue for an extended period of time. 26 RETIREMENT PLANS The Company maintains a prudent long-term investment strategy consistent with the duration of pension obligations. The determination of defined benefit plan expense and liabilities is dependent on various assumptions, including the expected annual rate of return on plan assets, the discount rate and the rate of annual compensation increases. In accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, actual results that differ from the Compa ny's assumptions are accumulated as deferred actuarial gains or losses and amortized to expense in future periods. The Company's principal U.S. defined benefit plan is closed to employees hired after January 1, 2016 while shorter-tenured employees ceased accruing benefits effective October 1, 2016. As of September 30, 2021, the U.S. pension plans were overfunded by $506 in total (approximately 12 percent in excess of the projected benefit obligation), including unfunded plans totaling $220. The substantial improvement in the funded status reflects strong asset returns in fiscal 2021. The non-U.S. plans were underfunded by $88, including unfunded plans totaling $318. The Company contributed a total of $41 to defined benefit plans in 2021 and expects to contribute approximately $50 in 2022. At year-end 2021, the discount rate for U.S. plans was 2.92 percent, and was 2.81 percent in 2020. The assumed investment return on plan assets was 6.50 percent in 2021, 6.75 percent in 2020 and 7.00 percent in 2019, and will be 6.00 percent for 2022. While management believes its assumptions used are appropriate, actual experience may differ. A 0.25 percentage point decrease in the U.S. and non-U.S. discount rates would have increased the total projected benefit obligation at September 30, 2021 by $200 and increased fiscal 2022 pension expense by $15. A 0.25 percentage point decrease in the expected return on plan assets would increase fiscal 2022 pension expense by $15. See Note 12. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES The Company is a party to a number of pending legal proceedings and claims, including those involving general and product liability (including asbestos) and other matters, several of which claim substantial amounts of damages. The Company accrues for such liabilities when it is probable that future costs (including legal fees and expenses) will be incurred and such costs can be reasonably estimated. Accruals are based on developments to date; management's estimates of the outcomes of these matters; and the Company's experience in contesting, litigating and settling similar matters. The Company engages an outside expert to develop an actuarial estimate of its expected costs to resolve all pending and future asbestos claims, including defense costs, as well as its related insurance receivables. The reserve for asbestos litigation, which is recorded on an undiscounted basis, is based on projected claims through 2065. Although it is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of these matters, the Company historically has been largely successful in defending itself against claims and suits that have been brought against it, and will continue to defend itself vigorously in all such matters. While the Company believes a material adverse impact is unlikely, given the inherent uncertainty of litigation, a remote possibility exists that a future development could have a material adverse impact on the Company. See Note 13. INCOME TAXES Income tax expense and tax assets and liabilities reflect management's assessment of taxes paid or expected to be paid (received) on items included in the financial statements. Deferred tax assets and liabilities arise from temporary differences between the consolidated financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases, and consideration of operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred income taxes are measured using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The impact on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in the period that includes the enactment date. Valuation allowances are provided to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that will more likely than not be realized. This requires management to make judgments and estimates regarding the amount and timing of the reversal of taxable temporary differences, expected future taxable income, and the impact of tax planning strategies. Uncertainty exists regarding tax positions taken in previously filed tax returns which remain subject to examination, along with positions expected to be taken in future returns. The Company provides for unrecognized tax benefits, based on the technical merits, when it is more likely than not that an uncertain tax position will not be sustained upon examination. Adjustments are made to the uncertain tax positions when facts and circumstances change, such as the closing of a tax audit; changes in applicable tax laws, including tax case rulings and legislative guidance; or expiration of the applicable statute of limitations. Cash repatriated to the U.S. is generally not subject to U.S. federal income taxes. No provision is made for withholding taxes and any applicable U.S. income taxes on the undistributed earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries 27 where these earnings are considered indefinitely invested or otherwise retained for continuing international operations. Determination of the amount of taxes that might be paid on these undistributed earnings if eventually remitted is not practicable. See Notes 1 and 14. Other Items LEGAL MATTERS At September 30, 2021, there were no known contingent liabilities (including guarantees, pending litigation, taxes and other claims) that management believes will be material in relation to the Company's financial statements, nor were there any material commitments outside the normal course of business. NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS Effective October 1, 2020, the Company adopted two accounting standard updates and one new accounting standard, and in fiscal 2020 adopted updates to ASC 815, all of which had an immaterial impact on the Company's financial statements. These included: • Updates to ASC 350, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other , which eliminate the requirement to measure impairment based on the implied fair value of goodwill compared to the carrying amount of a reporting unit’s goodwill. Instead, goodwill impairment will be measured as the excess of a reporting unit’s carrying amount over its estimated fair value. • Updates to ASC 350, Intangibles - Goodwill and Other , which align the requirements for capitalizing implementation costs incurred in a software hosting arrangement with the requirements for costs incurred to develop or obtain internal-use software. • Adoption of ASC 326, Financial Instruments - Credit Losses , which amends the impairment model by requiring entities to use a forward-looking approach to estimate lifetime expected credit losses on certain types of financial instruments, including trade receivables. • Updates to ASC 815, Derivatives and Hedging , which permit hedging certain contractually specified risk components. The updates also eliminate the requirement to separately measure and report hedge ineffectiveness and simplify hedge documentation and effectiveness assessment requirements. On October 1, 2019, the Company adopted ASC 842, Leases, which requires rights and obligations related to lease arrangements to be recognized on the balance sheet, using the optional transition method under which prior periods were not adjusted. The Company elected the package of practical expedients for leases that commenced prior to the adoption date, which included carrying forward the historical lease classification as operating or finance. The adoption of ASC 842 resulted in the recognition of operating lease right-of-use assets and related lease liabilities of approximately $500 as of October 1, 2019, but did not materially impact the Company's earnings or cash flows for the year ended September 30, 2020. The Company's financial statements for 2019 continue to be reported in accordance with the Company's historical accounting under ASC 840, Leases . On October 1, 2018, the Company adopted ASC 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers , which updated and consolidated revenue recognition guidance from multiple sources into a single, comprehensive standard to be applied for all contracts with customers. The fundamental principle of the revised standard is to recognize revenue based on the transfer of goods and services to customers at the amount the Company expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods and services. The Company adopted the new standard using the modified retrospective approach and applied the guidance to open contracts which were not completed at the date of adoption. The cumulative effect of adoption resulted in a $30 increase to beginning retained earnings as of October 1, 2018. This increase primarily related to contracts where a portion of revenue for delivered goods or services was previously deferred due to contingent payment terms. The adoption of ASC 606 did not materially impact the Company's consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended September 30, 2019. FISCAL 2022 OUTLOOK Emerson expects fiscal 2022 to be characterized by strong underlying demand. Strength in discrete and hybrid automation markets, further recovery in process markets and expanding opportunities in sustainability projects is expected to drive Automation Solutions full year net sales growth. For Commercial & Residential Solutions, residential demand is expected to moderate while the commercial and industrial environment is expected to further 28 improve. The Company expects operational challenges to continue through the first half of the year, but price-cost is expected to turn to a tailwind during the second half. For the full year, consolidated net sales are expected to be up 5 to 7 percent, with underlying sales up 6 to 8 percent excluding a 1 percent unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation. Automation Solutions net sales are expected to be up 5 to 7 percent, with underlying sales up 6 to 8 percent excluding a 1 percent unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation. Commercial & Residential Solutions net and underlying sales are expected to be up 6 to 9 percent. Earnings per share are expected to be $4.79 to $4.94, while adjusted earnings per share, which exclude a $0.19 per share impact from restructuring actions, a $0.42 per share impact from amortization of intangibles, and a $0.58 gain from proceeds received in November 2021 related to the Vertiv transaction, are expected to be $4.82 to $4.97 (see Note 4 for further details on the Vertiv gain). Operating cash flow is expected to be approximately $3.8 billion and free cash flow, which excludes projected capital spending of $650 million, is expected to be approximately $3.1 billion. Share repurchases are expected to be approximately $250 to $500 million in fiscal 2022. The guidance discussed herein does not include the impact of the AspenTech transaction. Emerson will contribute $6.0 billion in cash related to its definitive agreement with AspenTech, and the transaction is expected to close in the second calendar quarter of 2022. The Company expects to finance the transaction through a combination of cash on-hand and the issuance of new long-term debt. While the transaction will initially increase the Company's financial leverage and debt ratios, Emerson expects to retain its investment-grade long-term debt ratings. Further, the Company expects its leverage and debt ratios to improve rapidly through strong combined cash flow of the companies and disciplined capital allocation. Brexit Update The United Kingdom's (UK) withdrawal from the European Union (EU), commonly known as "Brexit", was completed on January 31, 2020. Negotiations over the terms of trade and other laws and regulations took place during 2020 and an agreement between the EU and the UK was reached on December 24, 2020, which included zero tariffs and quotas on goods. The Company's net sales in the UK are principally in the Automation Solutions segment and represent less than two percent of consolidated sales. While there could be certain incremental costs for logistics and other items, the Company expects any impact of these items will be immaterial.