********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Investing in our securities involves risks. You should carefully consider, among other matters, the factors set forth below and the other information in this report. The Company’s risk factors set forth below are not the only risks facing the Company. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to management or that management currently deems immaterial also may materially, adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition or operating results. We may amend or supplement the risk factors set forth below from time to time by other reports we file with the SEC. Business and Operational Risks We Operate in Businesses That Are Subject to Competitive Pressures That Could Affect Prices or Demand for Our Products Our businesses operate in markets that are highly competitive and potentially volatile, and we compete on the basis of product performance, quality, service and/or price across the industries and markets served. Our businesses are 6 largely dependent on the current and future business environment, including capital and consumer spending. A significant element of our competitive strategy is to deliver solutions to our customers by manufacturing high-quality products at the best relevant global cost. Various companies compete with us in one or more product lines and the number of competitors varies by product line. Some of our competitors have substantially greater sales, assets and financial resources than our Company and we also compete with many smaller companies. Competitive pressures could adversely affect prices or customer demand for our products, impacting our sales or profit margins, and/or resulting in a loss of market share. In addition, certain of our businesses rely, in part, on independent sales representatives and distributors. Any disruption or adverse change in our relationships with these independent sales representatives could weaken our competitive position and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.  A disruption or adverse change could result from the sale or financial instability of an independent sales representative or distributor, changes to our relationship including favoring competing products for any reason, or other events. Our Operating Results Depend in Part on Continued Successful Research, Development and Marketing of New and/or Improved Products and Services, and There Can Be No Assurance That We Will Continue to Successfully Introduce New Products and Services The success of new and improved products and services depends on their initial and continued acceptance by our customers. Our businesses are affected by varying degrees of technological change, such as, among others, artificial intelligences and machine learning, and corresponding shifts in customer demand, which result in unpredictable product transitions, shortened life cycles and increased importance of bein g first to market with new products and services. We may experience difficulties or delays in the research, development, production and/or marketing of new products and services which may negatively impact our operating results and prevent us from recouping or realizing a return on the investments required to continue to bring new products and services to market. We must anticipate and respond to market and technological changes driven by broader trends such as decarbonization and electrification efforts in response to climate change. Market growth from the use of cleaner energy sources, as well as emissions management, energy efficiency and decarbonization efforts are likely to depend in part on technologies not yet deployed or widely adopted today. We may not adequately innovate or position our businesses for the adoption of technologies such as battery storage solutions, hydrogen use cases in industry, mobility, and power generation, enhanced electrical grid demand management, carbon capture and sequestration or advanced nuclear power. These trends and the relative competitiveness of our product and service offerings will continue to be impacted by uncertain factors such as the pace of technological developments and related cost considerations, the levels of economic growth in different markets around the world and the adoption of climate change-related policies such as carbon taxes, greenhouse gas emission reductions, incentives or mandates for particular types of energy, or policies that impact the availability of financing for certain types of projects. If We Are Unable to Defend or Protect Our Intellectual Property Rights, the Company's Competitive Position Could Be Adversely Affected The Company's intellectual property rights are important to its business and include numerous patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets and other confidential information. This intellectual property may be subject to challenge, infringement, invalidation or circumvention by third parties. Despite extensive security measures, our intellectual property may be subject to misappropriation through unauthorized access of our information technology systems, employee theft, or other acts of industrial espionage. Should the Company be unable to adequately defend or protect its intellectual property, it may suffer competitive harm. We Engage in Acquisitions and Divestitures, Which Are Subject to Domestic and Foreign Regulatory Requirements, and May Encounter Difficulties in Integrating and Separating These Businesses and Therefore We May Not Realize the Anticipated Benefits We regularly seek growth through strategic acquisitions as well as evaluate our portfolio for potential divestitures. These activities require favorable environments to execute these transactions, and we may encounter difficulties in obtaining the necessary regulatory approvals in both domestic and foreign jurisdictions. In 2024 and in past years, we have made various acquisitions and divestitures, including our acquisition of National Instruments, our divestiture of the Climate Technologies business (now renamed Copeland), and our majority stake in Aspen 7 Technology, Inc., and entered into joint venture arrangements intended to complement or expand our business, and may continue to do so in the future. As a result of these transactions, the Company has a narrower business which is focused on higher growth markets including software, innovation and disruptive technologies, and may encounter more volatility and be more vulnerable to changing market conditions. The success of these transactions will depend on our ability to achieve higher rates of growth, integrate assets and personnel acquired in these transactions and to cooperate with our strategic partners. We may encounter difficulties in integrating acquisitions with our operations as well as separating divested businesses, and in managing strategic investments. Furthermore, we may not realize the degree, or timing, of anticipated benefits including, among others, increasing rates of profitability and growth. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our Portfolio Actions Including the Proposed Acquisition of the Remaining Interest in AspenTech Not Already Owned by the Company and the Process to Explore Strategic Alternatives for the Company's Safety & Productivity Segment May Not Be Completed or Completed on the Terms and Conditions Contemplated, or With the Expected Benefits On November 5, 2024, the Company announced a proposal to acquire all outstanding shares of common stock of AspenTech not already owned by Emerson for $240 per share in cash, which implies a fully diluted market capitalization for AspenTech of $15.3 billion and an enterprise value of $15.1 billion, and would be financed from cash on hand, committed lines of credit and/or other available sources of financing. Also on November 5, 2024, the Company announced that it is exploring strategic alternatives, including a cash sale, for its Safety & Productivity segment. No assurance can be given whether the proposal or the review will lead to one or more transactions. We can make no assurance as to the completion, terms, timing, costs or benefits anticipated from any such transactions. Unforeseen developments, including delays in obtaining various tax, regulatory and other approvals, could delay any such transactions, or cause one or more of them to occur on terms and conditions that are less favorable, or at a higher cost, than expected. We Use a Variety of Raw Materials and Components in Our Businesses, and Significant Shortages or Price Increases Could Increase Our Operating Costs and Adversely Impact the Competitive Positions of Our P roducts Our major requirements for raw materials include steel, cast iron, electronics, rare earth metals, aluminum, brass and, to a lesser extent, plastics and petroleum-based chemicals. The Company seeks multiple sources of supply for each of its major requirements in order to avoid significant dependence on any one or a few suppliers. However, the supply of materials or other items could be disrupted by natural disasters, a health epidemic or pandemic, or other events. Significant shortages or price increases could impact the prices our affected businesses charge, their operating costs and the competitive position of their products and services, which could adversely affect our results of operations. While we monitor market prices of the commodities we require and attempt to mitigate price exposure through hedging activities, this risk could adversely affect our operating results. Our Operations Depend on Production Facilities Throughout the World, a Majority of Which Are Located Outside the United States and Subject to Increased Risks of Disrupted Production, Causing Delays in Shipments and Loss of Customers and Revenue We manage businesses with manufacturing facilities worldwide, a majority of which are located outside the United States, and also source certain materials globally. Emerging market sales represent over one-third of total sales and serving a global customer base requires that we p lace more materials sourcing and production in emerging markets to capitalize on market opportunities and maintain a best-cost position. Our and our suppliers’ non-U.S. production facilities and operations could be disrupted by weather and natural disaster (including the potential effects of climate change), labor strife, war (including the Russia-Ukraine and other global conflicts), political unrest, terrorist activity or public health concerns such as an epidemic or pandemic, particularly in emerging countries that are not well-equip ped to handle such occurrences. Our manufacturing facilities abroad are dependent on the stability of governments and business conditions and may be more susceptible to changes in laws, policies and regulations in host countries, as well as economic and political upheaval, than our domestic facilities. These facilities face increased risks of nationalization as well as operational disruptions which could cause delays in shipments of products and the loss of sales and customers, and insurance proceeds may not adequately compensate us. 8 Access to Funding Through the Capital Markets is Essential to the Execution of Our Business Plan, and if We Are Unable to Maintain Such Access We Could Experience a Material Adverse Effect on Our Business and Financial Results Our ability to invest in our businesses, make strategic acquisitions and refinance maturing debt obligations requires access to the capital markets and sufficient bank credit lines to support short-term borrowings. Volatility in the capital markets may increase costs associated with issuing commercial paper or other debt instruments, or affect the Company’s ability to access those markets. If we are unable to continue to access the capital markets, we could experience a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Additionally, if our customers, suppliers or financial institutions are unable to access the capital markets to meet their commitments to the Company, our business could be adversely impacted. Our Business Success Depends on the Ability to Attract, Develop and Retain Key Personnel Our success depends in part on the efforts and abilities of our management and key employees. Their skills, experience and industry knowledge significantly benefit our operations and performance. The failure to attract, develop and retain highly qualified personnel could adversely affect our ability to succeed in our human capital goals and priorities as well as negatively impact our business and operating results. Security and/or Data Privacy Breaches, or Disruptions of Our Information Technology Systems Could Adversely Affect Our Business The Company relies on information technology networks and systems, including the internet, to process, transmit and store electronic information, and to manage or support a variety of business processes and activities. These technology networks and systems may be susceptible to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to failures during the process of upgrading or replacing software, databases or components; power outages; telecommunications or system failures; terrorist attacks; natural disasters; employee error or malfeasance; server or cloud provider breaches; and computer viruses or cyberattacks. Cybersecurity threats and incidents can range from uncoordinated individual attempts to gain unauthorized access to information technology networks and systems to more sophisticated and targeted measures, known as advanced persistent threats, directed at the Company, its products, its customers and/or its third-party service providers. Despite the implementation of cybersecurity measures (including access controls, data encryption, vulnerability assessments, continuous monitoring, and maintenance of backup and protective systems), the Company’s information technology systems may still be vulnerable to cybersecurity threats and other electronic security breaches. It is possible for such vulnerabilities to remain undetected for an extended period. In addition, it is possible a security breach could result in theft of trade secrets or other intellectual property or disclosure of confidential customer, supplier or employee information. We anticipate that the risk of cybersecurity attacks will increase as artificial intelligence capabilities improve and are increasingly used to identify vulnerabilities and construct increasingly sophisticated cybersecurity attacks, with the possibility of additional vulnerabilities being introduced through our own use of artificial intelligence and its use by our stakeholders, including vendors and customers, among others. Should the Company be unable to prevent security breaches or other damage to our information technology systems, disruptions could have an adverse effect on our operations, as well as expose the Company to litigation, liability or penalties under privacy laws, increased cybersecurity protection costs, reputational damage and product failure. In addition, we must comply with increasingly complex and rigorous regulatory standards enacted to protect business and personal data in the U.S. and elsewhere. Compliance with privacy and localization laws and regulations increases operational complexity. Failure to comply with these regulatory standards could subject us to fines and penalties, as well as legal and reputational risks, including proceedings against the Company by governmental entities or others. Our Products and Services are Highly Sophisticated and Specialized, and a Major Product Failure or Similar Event Caused by Defects, Cybersecurity Incidents or Other Failures Could Adversely Affect Our Business, Reputation, Financial Position and Results of Operations We produce highly sophisticated products and provide specialized services that incorporate or use complex or leading-edge technology, including both hardware and software. Many of our products and services, including measurement and analytical instrumentation, industrial valves and equipment, and process control systems, are integrated and used in complex process, hybrid and discrete manufacturing environments. As a result, the impact of a catastrophic product failure or similar event could be significant. While we have built operational processes to ensure that our product design, manufacture, performance and servicing meet rigorous quality standards, there can be no assurance that we or our customers or other third parties will not experience operational process or product 9 failures and other problems, including through manufacturing or design defects, process or other failures of contractors or third-party suppliers, cybersecurity incidents or other intentional acts, that could result in potential product, safety, regulatory or environmental risks. Cybersecurity incidents aimed at the software embedded in our products could lead to third-party claims resulting from damages caused by our product failures, and this risk is enhanced by the increasingly connected nature of our products. The potential consequences of a material cybersecurity incident include financial loss, reputational damage, litigation with third parties, diminution in the value of our investment in research, development and engineering, and increased cybersecurity protection and remediation costs due to the increasing sophistication and proliferation of threats, which in turn could adversely affect our competitiveness and results of operations. Industry and General Economic Risks Our Substantial Sales Both in the U.S. and Abroad Subject Us to Economic Risk as Our Results of Operations May Be Adversely Affected by Changes in Government Regulations and Policies and Currency Fluctuations We sell, manufacture, engineer and purchase products globally, with significant sales in both mature and emerging markets. We expect sales in non-U.S. markets to continue to represent a significant portion of our total sales. Our U.S. and international operations subject the Company to changes in government regulations and policies in a large number of jurisdictions around the world, including those related to trade, investments, taxation, exchange controls and repatriation of earnings. Changes in laws or policies (including their interpretations) governing the terms of foreign trade, trade restrictions or barriers, tariffs or taxes, trade protection measures, and retaliatory countermeasures, including on imports from countries where we manufacture products, could adversely impact our business and financial results. In addition, changes in the relative values of currencies occur from time to time and have affected our operating results and could do so in the future. While we monitor our exchange rate exposures and attempt to mitigate this exposure through hedging activities, this risk could adversely affect our operating results. Recessions, Adverse Market Conditions or Downturns in End Markets We Serve May Negatively Affect Our Operations In th e past, our operations have been exposed to significant volatility due to changes in general economic conditions or consumer preferences, recessions or adverse conditions in the end markets we serve. In the future, similar changes could adversely impact overall sales, operating results (including potential impairment charges for goodwill or other long-lived assets) and cash flows. Moreover, during economic downturns we may undertake more extensive restructuring actions, including workforce reductions, global facility consolidations, centralization of certain business support activities, and other cost reduction initiatives, and incur higher costs. As these plans and actions can be complex, the anticipated operational improvements, efficiencies and other benefits might be delayed or not realized. Legal and Regulatory Risks Changes in Tax Rates, Laws or Regulations and the Resolution of Tax Disputes Could Adversely Impact Our Financial Results As a global company, we are subject to taxation in the U.S. and numerous non-U.S. jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required to determine ou r consolidated income tax provision and related liabilities. The Company’s effective tax rate, cash flows and operating results could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with different statutory tax rates, as well as by changes in the local tax laws and regulations, or the interpretations thereof, including multiple, overlapping tax regimes enacted as part of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development proposals that implement a global minimum tax. In addition, the Company’s tax returns are subject to regular review and audit by U.S. and non-U.S. tax authorities. While we believe our tax provisions are appropriate, the final outcome of tax audits or disputes could result in adju stments to the Company’s tax liabilities, which could adversely affect our financial results. Our Reputation, Ability To Do Business and Results of Operations Could Be Impaired By Improper Conduct By Any of Our Employees, Agents or Business Partners We are subject to regulation under a wide variety of U.S. federal and state and non-U.S. laws, regulations and policies, including laws related to anti-corruption, anti-bribery, export and import compliance, anti-trust and money 10 laundering, due to our global operations. In particular, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business, and we operate in many parts of the world that have experienced government corruption to some degree. We cannot provide assurance our internal controls will always protect us from the improper conduct of our employees, agents and business partners. Any such violation of law or improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal investigations in the U.S. and other jurisdictions, could lead to substantial civil or criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties and related shareholder lawsuits, could lead to increased costs of compliance and could damage our reputation, our business and results of operations. We Are Subject to Litigation and Environmental Regulations That Could Adversely Impact Our Operating Results We are, and may in the future be, a party to a number of legal proceedings and claims, including those involving intellectual property, commercial transactions, government contracts, the integration of emerging technologies (for example, artificial intelligence and machine learning, among others), M&A, employment, employee benefit plans, antitrust, anti-corruption, accounting, import and export, health and safety matters, product liability (including asbestos) and environmental matters, several of which claim, or may in the future claim, si gnificant damages. Given the inherent uncertainty of litigation, we can offer no assurance that existing litigation or a future adverse development will not have a material adverse impact. We also are subject to various laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and the discharge of materials into the environment, and we could incur substantial costs as a result of the noncompliance with or liability for cleanup or other costs or damages under environmental laws. In addition, increased public awareness and concern regarding global climate change may result in more international, federal, and/or state or other stakeholder requirements or expectations that could result in more restrictive or expansive standards, such as stricter limits on greenhouse gas emissions or more prescriptive reporting of environmental, social, and governance metrics. There continues to be a lack of consistent climate change legislation and standards, which creates economic and regulatory uncertainty. While the Company has adopted certain voluntary targets, environmental laws, regulations or standards may be changed, accelerated or adopted and impose significant operational restrictions and compliance requirements upon the Company, its products or customers, which could negatively impact the Company’s business, capital expenditures, results of operations, financial condition and competitive position. Increasing Interest and Expectations with Respect to Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) Matters by Our Various Stakeholders Could Adversely Affect Our Business and Operating Results In response to growing customer, investor, employee, governmental, and other stakeholder interest in our ESG practices, we have increased reporting of our ESG programs and performance and have established and announced our aspirational purpose, causes, values, and related commitments, goals or targets, including those regarding sustainability, greenhouse gas emissions, our net zero ambition, and diversity, equity and inclusion. Our ability to achieve such goals and aspirations is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, many of which rely on the collective efforts of others or may be outside of our control.  Such risks include, among others, the availability and adoption of new or additional technologies that reduce carbon or eliminate energy sources on a commercially reasonable basis, competing and evolving economic, policy and regulatory factors, the ability of suppliers and others to meet our sustainability, diversity and other goals, the availability of qualified candidates in our labor markets and our ability to recruit and retain diverse talent, and customer engagement in our goals. There may be times where actual outcomes vary from those aimed for or expected and sometimes challenges may delay or block progress.  As a result, we cannot offer assurances that the results reflected or implied by any such statements will be realized or achieved. Moreover, standards and expectations for ESG matters continue to evolve and may be subject to varying interpretations, which may result in significant revisions to our goals or progress.  In addition, certain of our product offerings may become less attractive as standards evolve.  A failure or perceived failure to meet our aspirational purpose, causes, values, and related commitments, goals or targets within the timelines we announce, or at all, or a failure or perceived failure to meet evolving stakeholders expectations and standards, could damage our reputation, adversely affect employee retention or engagement or support from our various stakeholders and could subject us to government enforcement actions or penalties and private litigation. Such outcomes could negatively impact the Company’s business, capital expenditures, results of operations, financial condition and competitive position.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

16 Safe Harbor Statement This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains various forward-looking statements and includes assumptions concerning Emerson's operations, future results and prospects. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Emerson undertakes no obligation to update any such statements to reflect later developments. In connection with the “safe harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, Emerson provides the cautionary statements set forth under Item 1A - “Risk Factors,” which are hereby incorporated by reference and identify important economic, political and technological factors, among others, changes in which could cause the actual results or events to differ materially from those set forth in or implied by the forward-looking statements and related assumptions. Non-GAAP Financial Measures To supplement the Company’s financial information presented in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (U.S. GAAP), management periodically uses certain “non-GAAP financial measures,” as such term is defined in Regulation G under SEC rules, to clarify and enhance understanding of past performance and prospects for the future. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company’s operating performance, financial position or cash flows that excludes or includes amounts that are included in or excluded from the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with U.S. GAAP. For exa mple, non-GAAP measures may exclude the impact of certain items such as acquisitions or divestitures, amortization of intangibles, restructuring costs, discrete taxes, ch anges in reporting segments, gains, losses and impairments, or items outside of management’s control, such as foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Management believes that the following non-GAAP financial measures provide investors and analysts useful insight into the Company’s financial position and operating performance. Any non-GAAP measure provided should be viewed in addition to, and not as an alternative to, the most directly comparable measure determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP, as identified in italics below. Further, the calculation of these non-GAAP financial measures may differ from the calculation of similarly titled financial measures presented by other companies and therefore may not be comparable among companies. Underlying sales, which exclude the impact of significant acquisitions, divestitures and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates during the periods presented, are provided to facilitate relevant period-to-period comparisons of sales growth by excluding those items that impact overall comparability (U.S. GAAP measure: net sales ). Operating profit (defined as net sales less cost of sales and selling, general and administrative expenses) and operating profit margin (defined as operating profit divided by net sales) are indicative of short-term operational performance and ongoing profitability. Management closely monitors operating profit and operating profit margin of each business to evaluate past performance and actions required to improve profitability. EBIT (defined as earnings before deductions for interest expense, net, related party interest income, and income taxes) and total segment EBIT, and EBIT margin (defined as EBIT divided by net sales) and total segment EBIT margin, are financial measures that exclude the impact of financing on the capital structure and income taxes . Adjusted EBITA and adjusted segment EBITA (defined as earnings excluding interest expense, net, related party interest income, income taxes, intangibles amortization expense, restructuring expense, first year purchase accounting related items and transaction fees, and certain gains, losses or impairments) and adjusted EBITA margin and adjusted segment EBITA margin (defined as adjusted EBITA divided by net sales) are measures used by management to evaluate the Company's operational performance, as they exclude the impact of acquisition-related investments and non-operational items. EBITDA (defined as EBIT excluding depreciation and amortization) and EBITDA margin (defined as EBITDA divided by net sales) are also used as measures of the Company's current operating performance, as they exclude the impact of capital and acquisition-related investments. Adjusted EBITDA (defined as EBITDA excluding restructuring expense, first year purchase accounting related items and transaction fees, and certain gains, losses or impairments) and adjusted EBITDA margin (defined as Adjusted EBITDA divided by net sales) are also used to exclude the impact of non-operational items. All of these are commonly used financial measures utilized by management to evaluate performance (U.S. GAAP measures: pretax earnings or pretax profit margin, segment earnings or segment margin ). Earnings and earnings per share excluding certain gains and losses, impairments, restructuring costs, impacts of acquisitions or divestitures, amortization of intangibles, discrete taxes, or other items provide additional insight into the underlying, ongoing operating performance of the Company and facilitate period-to-period comparisons by excluding the earnings impact of these items. Management believes that presenting earnings and earnings per 17 share excluding these items is more representative of the Company’s operational performance and may be more useful for investors (U.S. GAAP measures: earnings, earnings per share ). Free cash flow (operating cash flow less capital expenditures) and free cash flow as a percent of net sales are indicators of the Company’s cash generating capabilities, and dividends as a percent of free cash flow is an indicator of the Company's ability to support its divid end, after considering investments in capital assets which are necessary to maintain and enhance existing operations. The determination of operating cash flow adds back noncash depreciation expense to earnings and thereby does not reflect a charge for necessary capital expenditures. Managemen t believes that free cash flow, free cash flow as a percent of net sales and dividends as a percent of free cash flow are useful to both management and investors as measures of the Company’s ability to generate cash and support its dividend (U.S. GAAP measures: operating cash flow, operating cash flow as a percent of net sales, dividends as a percent of operating cash flow ). 18 FINANCIAL REVIEW Report of Management The Company's management is responsible for the integrity and accuracy of the financial statements. Management believes that the financial statements for each of the years in the three-year period ended September 30, 2024 have been prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles appropriate in the circumstances. In preparing the financial statements, management makes informed judgments and estimates where necessary to reflect the expected effects of events and transactions that have not been completed. The Company's disclosure controls and procedures ensure that material information required to be disclosed is recorded, processed, summarized and communicated to management and reported within the required time periods. In meeting its responsibility for the reliability of the financial statements, management relies on a system of internal accounting controls. This system is designed to provide reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded and transactions are executed in accordance with management's authorization and recorded properly to permit the preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Although the design of this system recognizes that errors or irregularities may occur, management believes that the Company's internal accounting controls provide reasonable assurance that errors or irregularities that could be material to the financial statements are prevented or would be detected within a timely period. The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors, which is composed solely of independent directors, is responsible for overseeing the Company's financial reporting process. The Audit Committee meets with management and the Company's internal auditors periodically to review the work of each and to monitor the discharge by each of its responsibilities. The Audit Committee also meets periodically with the independent auditors, who have free access to the Audit Committee and the Board of Directors, to discuss the quality and acceptability of the Company's financial reporting and internal controls, as well as nonaudit-related services. The independent auditors are engaged to express an opinion on the Company's consolidated financial statements and on the Company's internal control over financial reporting. Their opinions are based on procedures that they believe to be sufficient to provide reasonable assurance that the financial statements contain no material errors and that the Company's internal controls are effective. Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting The Company's management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for the Company. With the participation of the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting based on the frame work and the criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013), issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on this evaluation, management has concluded that internal control over financial reporting was effective as of September 30, 2024. The Company's auditor, KPMG LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, has issued an audit report on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. 19 Results of Operations Years ended September 30 (Dollars in Item 7 are in millions, except per share amounts or where noted) OVERVIEW On October 11, 2023, the Company completed the acquisition of National Instruments Corporation ("NI"), which is now referred to as Test & Measurement and reported as a new segment in the Software and Control business group. NI provides software-connected automated test and measurement systems that enable enterprises to bring products to market faster and at a lower cost, and had revenues of approximately $1.7 billion for the 12 months ended September 30, 2023. See Note 4. On June 6, 2024, the Company entered into definitive agreements to sell its 40 percent non-controlling common equity interest in Copeland to private equity funds managed by Blackstone for $1.5 billion and its note receivable to Copeland for $1.9 billion, and the transactions were subsequently completed in August 2024. Upon entering into the note agreement, the Company recorded a pretax loss in continuing operations of $279 ($217 after-tax, $0.38 per share) to adjust the carrying value of the note to $1.9 billion to reflect the transaction price, while the Company recognized a gain of $539 ($435 after-tax) in discontinued operations upon the sale of the common equity interest. In addition, the equity method losses related to the Company's non-controlling common equity interest in Copeland, which were reported since May 2023 in Other deductions, net, have been reclassified and are now reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented. See Notes 5 and 8 for further detail. 20 Overall, in 2024 sales were $17.5 billion, up 15 percent compared with the prior year. Underlying sales, which exclude foreign currency translation, acquisitions and divestitures, were up 6 percent. The Test & Measurement acquisition added 9.5 percent and the divestiture of Metran, Emerson's Russia-based manufacturing subsidiary, deducted 0.5 percent. Net earnings from continuing operations attributable to common stockholders were $1,618 in 2024, down 29 percent compared with prior year earnings of $2,286, and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations were $2.82, down 29 percent versus $3.96 in 2023. The decrease was primarily due to purchase accounting related impacts from the NI acquisition and higher associated restructuring charges, and the loss on the sale of the Copeland note receivable. Adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations were $5.49 compared with $4.44 in the prior year, reflecting sales growth and strong operating performance, as well as a $0.45 contribution from Test & Measurement. The Company generated operating cash flow from continuing operations of $3.3 billion in 2024, an increase of $607, or 22 percent, reflecting higher earnings (excluding the impact of non-cash items related to the NI acquisition and the loss on the Copeland note receivable). The table below presents the Company's diluted earnings per share from continuing operations on an adjusted basis to facilitate period-to-period comparisons and provide additional insight into the underlying, ongoing operating performance of the Company. Adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations excludes intangibles amortization expense, restructuring expense, first year purchase accounting related items and transaction-related costs, interest income on undeployed proceeds related to the Copeland transaction, gains or losses on the Copeland equity method investment, and certain gains, losses or impairments. The table below summarizes the changes in adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations. The items identified below are discussed throughout MD&A, see further discussion above and in the Business Segments and Financial Position sections below. 21 NET SALES Net sales for 2024 were $17.5 billion, an increase of $2.3 billion, or 15 percent compared with 2023. Intelligent Devices sales increased 5 percent, while Software and Control sales increased 48 percent, which included the impact of the Test & Measurement acquisition. Underlying sales were up 6 percent on 4 percent higher volume and 2 percent higher price. The Test & Measurement acquisition added 9.5 percent and the divestiture of Metran deducted 0.5 percent. Underlying sales were up 2 percent in the U.S. and up 9 percent internationally. Net sales for 2023 were $15.2 billion, an increase of $1.4 billion, or 10 percent compared with 2022 . Intelligent Devices sales increased 7 percent, while Software and Control sales increased 20 percent, which included the impact of the Heritage AspenTech acquisition. Underlying sales increased 10 percent on 6 percent higher volume and 4 percent higher price. Foreign currency translation subtracted 2 percent , the Heritage AspenTech acquisition added 3 percent and the divestiture of Metran deducted 1 percent . Underlying sales were up 11 percent in the U.S. and up 9 percent internationally. INTERNATIONAL SALES Emerson is a global business with international sales representing 60 percent of total sales in 2024, including U.S. exports . The Company generally expects faster economic growth in emerging markets in Asia, Latin America, Eastern Europe and Middle East/Africa. International destination sales, including U.S. exports, increased 18 percent, to $10.5 billion in 2024, reflecting the Company's overall increase in sales and the impact of the Test & Measurement acquisition. U.S. expo rts of $1.3 billion were up 26 percent compared with 2023. Underlying international destination sales were up 9 percent and t he Test & Measurement acquisition added 9 percent. Underlying sales increased 7 percent in Europe, 8 percent in Asia, Middle East & Africa (China down 3 percent), 21 percent in Latin America and 5 percent in Canada. Origin sales by international subsidiaries, including shipments to the U.S., totaled $9.3 billion in 2024, up 20 percent compared with 2023. International destination sales, including U.S. exports, increased 9 percent, to $8.9 billion in 2023, reflecting the Company's overall increase in sales and the impact of the Heritage AspenTech acquisition. U.S . exports of $1.0 billion were up 6 percent compared with 2022 . Underlying international destination sales were up 9 percent, as foreign currency translation had a 3 percent unfavorable impact on the comparison, the Heritage AspenTech acquisition added 3 percent and the divestiture of Metran deducted 1 percent. Underlying sales increased 10 percent in Europe, 9 percent in Asia, Middle East & Africa (China up 4 percent), 14 percent in Latin Americ a and 1 percent in Canada. Origin sales by international subsidiaries, including shipments to the U.S., totaled $7.7 billion in 2023, up 5 percent compared with 2022. 22 ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES Portfolio management is an integral component of Emerson's growth and value creation strategy. Over the past three years, the Company has taken significant actions to accelerate the transformation of its portfolio through the completion of strategic acquisitions and divestitures of non-core businesses. These actions were undertaken to create a cohesive, higher growth and higher margin industrial technology portfolio as a global automation leader serving a diversified set of end markets. The Company’s recent portfolio actions include the following transactions: On November 5, 2024, the Company announced a proposal to acquire all outstanding shares of common stock of AspenTech not already owned by Emerson for $240 per share in cash, which implies a fully diluted market capitalization for AspenTech of $15.3 billion and an enterprise value of $15.1 billion. The Company currently owns approximately 57 percent of AspenTech's outstanding shares of common stock. The proposal is not subject to any financing condition and would be financed from cash on hand, committed lines of credit and/or other available sources of financing. Also on November 5, 2024, the Company announced that it is exploring strategic alternatives, including a cash sale, for its Safety & Productivity segment. No assurance can be given whether the proposal or the review will lead to one or more transactions or as to any of the terms or conditions of such transactions. See Item 1A - "Risk Factors" for additional information. On October 11, 2023, the Company completed the acquisition of National Instruments Corporation ("NI") at an equity value of $8.2 billion. NI, which provides software-connected automated test and measurement systems that enable enterprises to bring products to market faster and at a lower cost, had revenues of approximately $1.7 billion and pretax earnings of approximately $170 for the 12 months ended September 30, 2023. In 2023, the Company acquired two businesses, Flexim, which is reported in the Measurement & Analytical segment, and Afag, which is reported in the Discrete Automation segment, for $715, net of cash acquired. On March 31, 2023, Emerson completed the divestiture of Metran, its Russia-based manufacturing subsidiary. In 2023, the Company recognized a pretax loss of $47 in Other deductions ($47 after-tax, in total $0.08 per share) related to its exit of business operations in Russia. The Company had previously announced its intention to exit business operations in 2022 and recognized a pretax loss of $181 ($190 after-tax, in total $0.32 per share). This charge included a loss of $36 in operations and $145 reported in Other deductions ($10 of which is reported in restructuring costs) and was primarily non-cash. Emerson's historical net sales in Russia represented approximately 2.0 percent of consolidated annual sales. On May 31, 2023, the Company completed the sale of a majority stake in its Climate Technologies business (which constitutes the former Climate Technologies segment, excluding Therm-O-Disc which was divested earlier in 2022) to private equity funds managed by Blackstone in a $14.0 billion transaction. The Company recognized a pretax gain of approximately $10.6 billion (approximately $8.4 billion after-tax including tax expense recognized in prior quarters related to subsidiary restructurings). The standalone business is named Copeland. Subsequently, on June 6, 2024, the Company entered into definitive agreements to sell its 40 percent non-controlling common equity interest in Copeland to private equity funds managed by Blackstone for $1.5 billion and its note receivable to Copeland for $1.9 billion and the transactions were completed in August 2024. See Notes 5 and 8 and the discussion below for further details. On October 31, 2022, the Company completed the divestiture of its InSinkErator business, which manufactures food waste disposers, to Whirlpool Corporation for $3.0 billion, and the Company recognized a pretax gain of approximately $2.8 billion (approximately $2.1 billion after-tax) in 2023. On May 31, 2022 the Company completed the divestiture of its Therm-O-Disc sensing and protection technologies business to an affiliate of One Rock Capital Partners, LLC. The Company recognized a pretax gain of $486 ($429 after-tax) in 2022. Climate Technologies (including equity method losses related to the Company's non-controlling common equity interest in Copeland), Therm-O-Disc and InSinkErator are reported within discontinued operations for all periods presented. On May 16, 2022, the Company completed the transactions contemplated by its definitive agreement with Aspen Technology, Inc. ("Heritage AspenTech") to contribute two of Emerson's stand-alone industrial software businesses, Open Systems International, Inc. and the Geological Simulation Software business (collectively, the “Emerson 23 Industrial Software Business”), along with approximately $6.0 billion in cash to Heritage AspenTech stockholders, to create "New AspenTech" (defined as "AspenTech" herein). Upon closing of the transaction, Emerson owned 55 percent of the outstanding shares of AspenTech common stock (on a fully diluted basis). AspenTech and its subsidiaries now operate under Heritage AspenTech’s previous name “Aspen Technology, Inc.” and AspenTech common stock is traded on NASDAQ under AspenTech’s previous stock ticker symbol “AZPN.” Due to the timing of the acquisition, the results for the first half of fiscal 2022 do not include the results of Heritage AspenTech. See Notes 4, 5 and 8 and Item 1A - "Risk Factors" for further information on acquisitions and divestitures. COST OF SALES Cost of sales for 2024 were $8,607, an increase of $869 compared with $7,738 in 2023, reflecting the impact of higher volume and the Test & Measurement acquisition. Gross profit was $8,885 in 2024 compared to $7,427 in 2023, while gross margin increased 1.8 percentage poi nts to 50.8 percent, reflecting the Test & Measurement acquisition and higher price partially offset by the impact from acquisition-related inventory step-up amortization of $231, which negatively impacted margins by approximately 1.3 percentage points. Cost of sales for 2023 were $7,738 , an increase of $240 compared with $7,498 in 2022. G ross profit was $7,427 in 2023 compared to $6,306 in 2022 , while gross margin increased 3.3 percentage points to 49.0 percent due to favorable price less net material inflation, the impact of the Heritage AspenTech acquisition which benefited margins by 0.6 percentage points, and favorable mix. SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES SG&A expenses of $5,142 in 2024 increased $956 compared with 2023 and SG&A as a percent of sales increased 1.8 percentage points to 29.4 percent, reflecting the impact of the Test & Measurement acquisition, partially offset by strong operating leverage on higher sales. SG&A expenses of $4,186 in 2023 increased $572 compared with 2022 and SG&A as a percent of sales increased 1.4 percentage points to 27.6 percent, reflecting the Heritage AspenTech acquisition and higher stock compensation expense of $125, of which $75 related to Emerson stock plans due to a higher share price and $50 was attributable to AspenTech stock plans. These items were partially offset by strong operating leverage on higher sales. SALE OF COPELAND NOTE RECEIVABLE AND EQUITY INTEREST On June 6, 2024, the Company entered into definitive agreements to sell its 40 percent non-controlling common equity interest in Copeland to private equity funds managed by Blackstone for $1.5 billion and its note receivable to Copeland for $1.9 billion, and the transactions were subsequently completed in August 2024. Upon entering into the note agreement, the Company recorded a pretax loss in continuing operations of $279 ($217 after-tax, $0.38 per share) to adjust the carrying value of the note to $1.9 billion to reflect the transaction price, while the Company recognized a gain of $539 ($435 after-tax) in discontinued operations upon the sale of the common equity interest. In addition, the equity method losses related to the Company's non-controlling common equity interest in Copeland, which were reported since May 2023 in Other deductions, net, have been reclassified and are now reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented. GAIN ON SUBORDINATED INTEREST In the first quarter of 2022, the Company received a distribution of $438 related to its subordinated interest in Vertiv (in total, a pretax gain of $453 was recognized in the first quarter of 2022, $358 after-tax, $0.60 per share) and received the remaining $15 related to the pretax gain in the first quarter of 2023. In 2023, the Company received additional distributions totaling $161 ($122 after-tax, $0.21 per share) and in 2024, received its final distribution of $79 ($60 after-tax, $0.10 per share). OTHER DEDUCTIONS, NET Other deductions, net were $1,434 in 2024, an increase of $928 compared with 2023. The current year included intangibles amortization related to the Test & Measurement acquisition of $560, while restructuring costs increased by $156 and acquisition/divestiture costs increased by $27. The Company also incurred divestiture losses of $48 ($50 after-tax, $0.09 per share). Other deductions, net were $506 in 2023, a decrease of $13 compared with 2022 , and included higher intangibles amortization of $146 primarily related to the Heritage AspenTech acquisition and an unfavorable impact from foreign currency transactions of $112 reflecting losses in the current year compared to gains in the prior year. The prior year included a charge of $145 related to the Company exiting its business in Russia compared to a charge of $47 in 24 2023. In 2023, the Company recognized a mark-to-market gain of $56 on its equity investment in NI, and a mark-to-market gain of $24 r elated to foreign currency forward contracts entered into by AspenTech to mitigate the impact of foreign currency exchange associated with the Micromine purchase price compared to a loss of $50 in 2022. On June 21, 2023, AspenTech terminated all outstanding foreign currency forward contracts. See Notes 6 and 7. INTEREST EXPENSE, NET Interest expense, net was $175 , $34 and $194 in 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Results in 2023 included interest income on undeployed proceeds from the Copeland transaction of $141 ($108 after-tax, $0.19 per share). Interest income from related party was $86 and $41 in 2024 and 2023, respectively and reflects n on-cash interest income on the Copeland note receivable, which was capitalized to the carrying value of the note through the date of the sale agreement. EARNINGS BEFORE INCOME TAXES Pretax earnings from conti nuing operations of $2,020 decreased $883 in 2024, down 30 percent compared with 2023, which included the impact of acquisition-related inventory step-up amortization, higher amortization due to the Test & Measurement acquisition, and the loss on the Copeland note receivable discussed above. Earnings increased $191 in Intelligent Devices and decreased $140 in Software and Control. Pretax earnings from continuing operations of $2,903 increased $471 in 2023, up 19 percent compared with 2022. Earnings increased $447 in Intelligent Devices and decreased $27 in Software and Contr ol. See the Business Segments discussion that follows and Note 20. INCOME TAXES In come taxes were $415, $642 and $549 for 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively, resulting in effective tax rates of 21 percent, 22 percent and 23 percent in 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively. The current year rate included a $57 ($0.10 per share) benefit related to discrete tax items and a benefit related to the filing of the prior year U.S. tax return, partially offset by unfavorable impacts from inventory step-up amortization and the divestiture losses (see Note 4), which were non-deductible for tax purposes. In total, the net impact of these items benefited the rate by approximately 1 percentage point. See Note 16. NET EARNINGS AND EARNINGS PER SHARE Net earnings from continuing operations attributable to common stockholders in 2024 were $1,618, down 29 percent compared with 2023, and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations were $2.82, down 29 percent compared with $3.96 in 2023, reflecting the impact of acquisition-related inventory step-up amortization, higher amortization due to the Test & Measurement acquisition, and the loss on the Copeland note receivable discussed above. Adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations were $5.49 compared with $4.44 in the prior year. See the analysis of adjusted earnings per share in the Overview section for further detai ls. Earnings from discontinued operations attributable to common stockholders in 2024 were $350 ($0.61 per share) and included the gain on the sale of the Company's 40 percent non-controlling common equity interest in Copeland of $539 ($435 after-tax). Earnings from discontinued operations in 2023 were $10,933 ($18.92 per share), which included the $8.4 billion after-tax gain on the Copeland transaction and the $2.1 billion after-tax gain on the divestiture of InSinkErator. See Note 5. Net earni ngs attributable to common stockholders were $1,968 ($3.43 per share) compared with $13,219 ($22.88 per share) in 2023 . Net earnings from continuing operations attributable to common stockholders in 2023 were $2,286 , up 21 percent compared with 2022 , and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations were $3.96, up 25 percent compared with $3.16 in 2022, reflecting strong operating results. Adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations were $4.44 compared with $3.64 in the prior year. See the analysis of adjusted earnings per share in the Overview section for further details. Earnin gs from discontinued operations attributable to common stockholders in 2023 wer e $10,933 ($18.92 per share) compared to $1,345 ($2.25 per share) in 2022. See Note 5. Net earnings common stockholders w ere $13,219 ($22.88 per share) in 2022 compared with $3,231 ($5.41 per share) in 2022 . 25 The table below, which shows results on an adjusted EBITA basis, is intended to supplement the Company's discussion of its results of operations herein. Business Segments Following is an analysis of segment results for 2024 compared with 2023, and 2023 compared with 2022. The Company defines segment earnings as earnings before interest and income taxes. 26 2024 vs. 2023 - Intelligent Devices sales were $12.2 billion in 2024, an increase of $573, or 5 percent. Underlying sales increased 5 percent on 3 percent higher volume and 2 percent higher price. Underlying sales increased 3 percent in the Americas (U.S. up 1 percent), increased 5 percent in Europe and increased 9 percent in Asia, Middle East & Africa (China down 2 percent). Sales for Final Control increased $234, or 6 percent, reflecting strength in energy and power end markets. Sa les for Measurement & Analytical increased $466, or 13 percent, reflecting robust growth in all geographies and strong backlog conversion. D iscrete Automation sales decreased $129, or 5 percent, reflecting softness in all geographies. Safety & Productivity sales increased $2, essentially flat, reflecting moderate results across all geographies. Earnings for Intellig ent Devices were $2,807 , an increase of $191 , or 7 percent , and margin increased 0.5 percentage points to 23.1 percent, reflecting leverage on higher sales and favorable price less net material inflation, partially offset by increases in other costs. Adj usted EBITA margin was 25.4 percent , an increase of 0.8 percentage points. 27 2023 vs. 2022 - Intelligent Devices sales were $11.6 billion in 2023, an increase of $752, or 7 percent. Underlying sales increased 10 percent on 5 percent higher volume and 5 percent higher price. Underlying sales increased 11 percent in the Americas (U.S. up 12 percent), increased 9 percent in Europe and increased 8 percent in Asia, Middle East & Africa (China up 2 percent). Sales for Final Control increased $363, or 10 percent. Underlying sales increased 13 percent, reflecting strength in chemical and energy end markets and across all geographies, particularly in the U.S. Sales for Measurement & Analytical increased $380, or 12 percent. Underlying sales increased 16 percent, reflecting robust growth in the Americas and Europe due to strong demand, while Asia, Middle East & Africa was up moderately due to softness in China. Discrete Automation sales increased $23, or 1 percent, while underlying sales increased 3 percent, reflecting softening demand in the second half of the year, with all geographies up low-to-mid single digits for the full year. Safety & Productivity sales decreased $14, or 1 percent, and underlying sales decreased 1 percent, reflecting softness in the Americas and Europe, while Asia, Middle East & Africa was up slightly. Earnings for Intelligent Devices were $2,616, an increase of $447, or 21 percent, and margin increased 2.6 percentage points to 22.6 percent, reflecting favorable price less net material inflation, leverage on higher sales and favorable mix, partially offset by wage and other inflation. Adjusted EBITA margin was 24.6 percent, an increase of 2.2 percentage points. 28 2024 vs. 2023 - Software and Control sales were $5.4 billion in 2024, an increase of $1,751, or 48 percent compared to the prior year, reflecting the impact of the Test & Measurement acquisition. Underlying sales increased 8 percent on 5 percent higher volume and 3 percent higher price. Underlying sales increased 8 percent in the Americas (U.S. up 7 percent), increased 9 percent in Europe and increased 8 percent in Asia, Middle East & Africa (China down 5 percent). Sales for Control Systems & Software increased $236, or 9 percent, reflecting strong international demand in process and hybrid end markets while power end markets were strong globally. Test & Measurement sales were $1,464. Sales for AspenTech increased $51, or 5 percent, reflecting higher maintenance and services revenue. Earnings for Software and Control were $282, a decrease of $140, or 33 percent, and margin decreased 6.4 percentage points to 5.2 percent, reflecting the impact from $560 of incremental intangibles amortization related to the Test & Measurement acquisition. Adjusted EBITA margin was 27.0 percent, an increase of 1.2 percentage points, reflecting leverage on higher sales and higher price, partially offset by the impact of the Test & Measurement acquisition. 29 2023 vs. 2022 - Software and Control sales were $3.6 billion in 2023, an increase of $594, or 20 percent compared to 2022, reflecting the impact of the Heritage AspenTech acquisition and strong growth in Control Systems & Software. Underlying sales increased 10 percent on 8 percent higher volume and 2 percent higher price. Underlying sales increased 7 percent in the Americas (U.S. up 6 percent), increased 11 percent in Europe and increased 13 percent in Asia, Middle East & Africa (China up 16 percent). Sales for Control Systems & Software increased $208, or 9 percent, and underlying sales increased 11 percent, reflecting global strength in process end markets while power end markets were up modestly. Sales for AspenTech increased $386, or 59 percent, due to the acquisition of Heritage AspenTech. Earnings for Software and Control were $422, a decrease of $27, or 6 percent, and margin decreased 3.1 percentage points to 11.6 percent, reflecting the impact from $249 of incremental intangibles amortization related to the Heritage AspenTech acquisition. Adjusted EBITA margin was 25.8 percent, an increase of 2.3 percentage points, reflecting leverage on higher sales, higher price and favorable mix, partially offset by inflation and unfavorable foreign currency transactions. Financial Position, Liquidity and Capital Resources Emerson maintains a conservative financial structure to provide the strength and flexibility necessary to achieve our strategic objectives and efficiently deploy cash where needed worldwide to fund operations, complete acquisitions and sustain long-term growth. Emerson is in a strong financial position, with total assets of $44 billion and stockholders' equity of $22 billion, and has the resources available for reinvestment in existing businesses, strategic acquisitions and managing its capital structure on a short- and long-term basis. The Company continues to generate substantial operating cash flow, including over $3.3 billion from continuing operations in 2024. Cash flows have been and are expected to be sufficient for at least the next 12 months to meet 30 the Company’s operating requirements, including those related to salaries and wages, working capital, capital expenditures, and other liquidity requirements associated with operations. Th e Company also has certain contractual obligations, primarily long-term debt and operating leases (see Notes 9, 12 and 13). The Company has been able to readily meet all its funding requirements and currently believes that sufficient funds will be available to meet its needs for the foreseeable future through operating cash flow, existing resources, short- and long-term debt capacity, or its $3.5 billion revolving backup credit facility under which it has not incurred any borrowings. Operating cash flow from continuing operations for 2024 was $3.3 billion, an increase of $607, or 22 percent compared with 2023, reflecting higher earnings (excluding the impact of non-cash items related to the NI acquisition and the loss on the Copeland note receivable). Acquisition-related costs and integration activities negatively impacted operating cash flow in the current year by approximately $235. AspenTech generated operating cash flow of approximately $320 compared to approximately $310 in the prior year. Operating cash flow from continuing operations for 2023 was $2.7 billion, an increase of 32 percent compared to $2.0 billion in 2022, reflecting higher earnings (excluding the impacts in both years from the Vertiv subordinated interest gains and higher Heritage AspenTech intangibles amortization in 2023). At September 30, 2024, operating working capital as a percent of sales was 8.0 percent compared with 8.5 percent in 2023 and 7.2 percent in 2022. Total operating working capital increased in 2024 due to the NI acquisition, but improved as a percent of sales compared to 2023 due improvements in inventory levels. Operating working capital was elevated in 2023 due to higher inventory levels to support sales growth and higher receivables. Free cash flow from continuing operations (operating cash flow less capital expenditures) was $2,898 in 2024, up 23 percent, reflecting the increase in operating cash flow. Free cash flow from continuing operations was $2,347 in 2023, compared with $1,749 in 2022. Net cash paid in connection with acquisitions was $8,342, $705 and $5,702 in 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Total cash provided by operating activities including the impact of discontinued operations was $3,332, $637 and $2,922 in 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively. The decrease in 2023 was due to approximately $2.3 billion of income taxes paid related to the gains on the Copeland transaction and InSinkErator divestiture and subsidiary restructurings related to the Copeland transaction. Investing cash flow from discontinued operations was $3.4 billion in 2024, reflecting the proceeds of approximately $1.5 billion related to the sale of the Company's 40 percent non-controlling common equity interest in Copeland and $1.9 billion related to the sale of the note receivable, while 2023 was $12.5 billion, reflecting the proceeds from the Copeland transaction and InSinkErator divestiture. On March 27, 2020, the CARES Act was enacted in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, and among other things, provides tax relief to businesses. Tax provisions of the CARES Act included the deferral of certain payroll taxes, relief for retaining employees, and other provisions. The Company deferred $73 of certain payroll taxes through the end of calendar year 2020, of which approximately $37 was paid in December 2021 and the remainder paid in December 2022. Dividends were $1,201 ($2.10 per share) in 2024, compared with $1,198 ($2.08 per share) in 2023 and $1,223 ($2.06 per share) in 2022. In November 2024, the Board of Directors voted to increase the quarterly cash dividend to an annualized rate of $2.11 per share. 31 Purchases of Emerson common stock totaled $435, $2,000 and $500 in 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively, at average per share prices of $99.04, $94.09 and $87.64. AspenTech repurchases were $208 in 2024 and $214 in 2023, and the Company's current common ownership percentage is approximately 57 percent. In November 2015, the Board of Directors authorized the purchase of up to 70 million shares, and during 2022, the remaining shares available under this authorization were purchased. In March 2020, the Board of Directors authorized the purchase of an additional 60 million shares and a total of approximately 28.9 million shares remain available. The Company purchased 4.4 million shares in 2024, 21.3 million shares in 2023 and 5.7 million shares in 2022 under the authorizations. Total debt, which includes long-term debt, current maturities of long-term debt, commercial paper and other short-term borrowings, was $7,687, $8,157 and $10,374 as of September 30, 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively. The decrease in 2024 reflected the repayment of €500 of 0.375% euro notes that matured in May 2024. The decrease in 2023 included a net reduction in short-term borrowings of approximately $1.6 billion and repayments of long-term debt of $741 (including $264 related to AspenTech's repayment of the outstanding balance on its existing term loan facility plus accrued interest). Activity in 2022 included the issuance of $3 billion of long-term debt and increased commercial paper borrowings of approximately $1.3 billion. The Company used the net proceeds from the sale of the notes and the increased commercial paper borrowings to fund the majority of its contribution of approximately $6.0 billion to existing stockholders of Heritage AspenTech as part of the transaction. Long-term debt was issued in December 2021 as follows: $1 billion of 2.0% notes due December 2028, $1 billion of 2.2% notes due December 2031, and $1 billion of 2.8% notes due December 2051. Additionally, the Company repaid $500 of 2.625% notes that matured in 2022. See Note 4 and Note 13. The total debt-to-total capital ratio decreased slightly in 2024, reflecting repayments of long-term debt, while the net debt-to-net capital ratio increased reflecting the use of cash held on the balance sheet at September 30, 2023 that was used to complete the NI acquisition. These ratios decreased in 2023 compared to 2022 due to the proceeds and after-tax gains (which increased common stockholder's equity) on the Copeland transaction and InSinkErator divestiture. The interest coverage ratio is computed as earnings before income taxes plus interest expense, divided by interest expense. The decrease in 2024 reflects lower GAAP pretax earnings largely due to the NI acquisition. Excluding the impact from acquisition-related inventory step-up amortization of $231, higher intangibles amortization of $595, acquisition/divestiture fees and related costs of $220, higher restructuring and related costs of $152, the loss of $279 on the Copeland note receivable and the gain on the subordinated interest of $79, the interest coverage ratio was 11.6X. The Company's earnings increased in 2023 which offset higher interest expense due to the increased long-term debt and commercial paper borrowings to fund the Heritage AspenTech acquisition. In February 2023, the Company entered into a $3.5 billion five-year revolving backup credit facility with various banks, which replaced the May 2018 $3.5 billion facility. The credit facility is maintained to support general corporate purposes, including commercial paper borrowings. The Company has not incurred any borrowings under this or previous facilities. The credit facility contains no financial covenants and is not subject to termination based on a change of credit rating or material adverse changes. The facility is unsecured and may be accessed under various interest rate alternatives at the Company’s option. Fees to maintain the facility are immaterial. The Company also maintains a universal shelf registration statement on file with the SEC under which it can issue debt securities, preferred stock, common stock, warrants, share purchase contracts or share purchase units without a predetermined limit. Securities can be sold in one or more separate offerings with the size, price and terms to be determined at the time of sale. 32 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS In the normal course of business, the Company is exposed to changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates due to its worldwide presence and diverse business pr ofile and selectively uses derivative financial instruments, including forwards, swaps and purchased options to manage these risks. The Company does not hold derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. The value of derivatives and other financial instruments is subject to change as a result of market movements in rates and prices. Sensitivity analysis is one technique used to fo recast the impact of these movements. Based on a hypothetical 10 percent increase in interest rates or a 10 percent weakening in the U.S. dollar across all currencies, the potential losses in future earnings, fair value or cash flows are not material. Sensitivity analysis has limitations; for example, a weaker U.S. dollar would benefit future earnings through favorable translation of non-U.S. operating results. See Notes 1, and 11 through 13. Critical Accounting Policies Preparation of the Company's financial statements requires management to make judgments, assumptions and estimates regarding uncertainties that could affect reported revenue, expenses, assets, liabilities and equity. Note 1 describes the significant accounting policies used in preparation of the consolidated financial statements. The most significant areas where management judgments and estimates impact the primary financial statements are described below. Actual results in these areas could differ materially from management's estimates under different assumptions or conditions. REVENUE RECOGNITION The Company evaluates its contracts with customers to identify the promised goods or services and recognizes revenue for the identified performance obligations at the amount the Company expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. A performance obligation is a promise in a contract to transfer a distinct good or service to a customer. Revenue is recognized when, or as, performance obligations are satisfied and control has transferred to the customer, typically when products are shipped or delivered, title and risk of loss pass to the customer, and the Company has a present right to payment. The majority of the Company's revenues relate to a broad offering of  manufactured products and software which are recognized at the point in time when control transfers, generally in accordance with shipping terms, or the first day of the contractual term for software. A portion of the Company's revenues relate to the sale of post-contract customer support, parts and labor for repairs, and engineering services. In some circumstances, contracts include multiple performance obligations, where revenue is recognized separately for each good or service, as well as contracts where revenue is recognized over time as control transfers to the customer. Tangible products represent a large majority of the delivered items in contracts with multiple performance obligations or where revenue is recognized over time, while a smaller portion is attributable to installation, service and maintenance. In sales arrangements that involve multiple performance obligations, revenue is allocated based on the relative standalone selling price for each performance obligation. Observable selling prices from actual transactions are used whenever possible. In other instances, the Company determines the standalone selling price based on thi rd-party pricing or management's best estimate. For projects where revenue is recognized over time, the Company typically uses an input method to determine progress and recognize revenue, based on costs incurred. The Company believes costs incurred closely correspond with its performance under the contract and the transfer of control to the customer. The Company also has software maintenance contracts where revenue is recognized ratably over the maintenance term. VALUATION OF ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Assets and liabilities acquired in business combinations, including intangible assets, are accounted for using the acquisition method and recorded at their respective fair values. In 2024, the Company completed the acquisition of National Instruments Corporation and in 2022 completed the acquisition of Aspen Technology, Inc. and engaged independent third-party valuation specialists to assist in the determination of the fair value of intangible assets. This included the use of certain assumptions and estimates, including projected revenue for customer relationship and developed technology intangible assets, the attrition rate for customer relationship intangible assets, and the obsolescence rate for developed technology intangible assets. Although we believe the assumptions and estimates to be reasonable and appropriate, they require judgement and are based on experience and historical information obtained from National Instruments Corporation and Aspen Technology, Inc. LONG-LIVED ASSETS Long-lived assets, which include property, plant and equipment, goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in business circumstances indicate impairment may exist. If 33 the Company determines that the carrying value of a long-lived asset may not be recoverable, a permanent impairment charge is recorded for the amount by which the carrying value of the long-lived asset exceeds its estimated fair value. Reporting units are also reviewed for possible goodwill impairment at least annually, in the fourth quarter. If an initial assessment indicates it is more likely than not an impairment may exist, it is evaluated by comparing the reporting unit's estimated fair value to its carrying value. Fair value is generally estimated using an income approach that discounts estimated future cash flows using discount rates judged by management to be commensurate with the applicable risk. Estimates of future sales, operating results, cash flows and discount rates are subject to changes in the economic environment, including such factors as the general level of market interest rates, expected equity market returns and the volatility of markets served, particularly when recessionary economic circumstances continue for an extended period of time. RETIREMENT PLANS The Company maintains a prudent long-term investment strategy consistent with the duration of pension obligations. The determination of defined benefit plan expense and liabilities is dependent on various assumptions, including the expected annual rate of return on plan assets, the discount rate and the rate of annual compensation increases. In accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, actual results that differ from the Compa ny's assumptions are accumulated as deferred actuarial gains or losses and amortized to expense in future periods. The Company's principal U.S. defined benefit plan is closed to employees hired after January 1, 2016 while shorter-tenured employees ceased accruing benefits effective October 1, 2016. Effective January 1, 2025, the Company is implementing a new profit sharing retirement program for all U.S. non-union employees. Eligible employees will receive a base contribution to a cash balance account administered within the principal U.S. defined benefit plan, to be funded by surplus pension assets, as well as a potential profit sharing contribution to their defined contribution account. After December 31, 2024, future service for employees that had continued to accrue benefits in the principal U.S. defined benefit plan will be frozen. As of September 30, 2024, the U.S. pension plans were overfunded by $800 in total (approximately 22 percent in excess of the projected benefit obligation), including unfunded plans totaling $161. The non-U.S. plans were underfunded by $38, including unfunded plans totaling $230. The Company contributed a total of $38 to defined benefit plans in 2024 and expects to contribute approximately $40 in 2025. At year-end 2024, the discount rate for U.S. plans was 4.97 percent, and was 6.03 percent in 2023. The assumed investment return on plan assets was 6.50 percent in 2024, 6.00 percent in 2023 and 6.00 percent in 2022, and will be 6.50 percent for 2025. While management believes its assumptions used are appropriate, actual experience may differ. A 0.25 percentage point decrease in the U.S. and non-U.S. discount rates would have increased the total projected benefit obligation at September 30, 2024 by $100 and increased 2025 pension expense by $15. A 0.25 percentage point decrease in the expected return on plan assets would increase 2025 pension expense by $15. See Note 1 4. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES The Company is a party to a number of pending legal proceedings and claims, including those involving general and product liability (including asbestos) and other matters, several of which claim substantial amounts of damages. The Company accrues for such liabilities when it is probable that future costs (including legal fees and expenses) will be incurred and such costs can be reasonably estimated. Accruals are based on developments to date; management's estimates of the outcomes of these matters; and the Company's experience in contesting, litigating and settling similar matters. T he Company engages an outside expert to develop an actuarial estimate of its expected costs to resolve all pending and future asbestos claims, including defense costs, as well as its related insurance receivables. The reserve for asbestos litigation, which is recorded on an undiscounted basis, is based on projected claims through 2065. Although it is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of these matters, the Company historically has been largely successful in defending itself against claims and suits that have been brought against it, and will continue to defend itself vigorously in all such matters. While the Company believes a material adverse impact is unlikely, given the inherent uncertainty of litigation, a remote possibility exists that a future development could have a material adverse impact on the Company. See Note 15. INCOME TAXES Income tax expense and tax assets and liabilities reflect management's assessment of taxes paid or expected to be paid (received) on items included in the financial statements. Deferred tax assets and liabilities arise from temporary differences between the consolidated financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases, and consideration of operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred income taxes are measured using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the temporary differences are expected to be 34 recovered or settled. The impact on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in the period that includes the enactment date. Valuation allowances are provided to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that will more likely than not be realized. This requires management to make judgments and estimates regarding the amount and timing of the reversal of taxable temporary differences, expected future taxable income, and the impact of tax planning strategies. Uncertainty exists regarding tax positions taken in previously filed tax returns which remain subject to examination, along with positions expected to be taken in future returns. The Company provides for unrecognized tax benefits, based on the technical merits, when it is more likely than not that an uncertain tax position will not be sustained upon examination. Adjustments are made to the uncertain tax positions when facts and circumstances change, such as the closing of a tax audit; changes in applicable tax laws, including tax case rulings and legislative guidance; or expiration of the applicable statute of limitations. Cash repatriated to the U.S. is generally not subject to U.S. federal income taxes. No provision is made for withholding taxes and any applicable U.S. income taxes on the undistributed earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries where these earnings are considered indefinitely invested or otherwise retained for continuing international operations. Determination of the amount of taxes that might be paid on these undistributed earnings if eventually remitted is not practicable. See Notes 1 and 16. Other Items LEGAL MATTERS At September 30, 2024, there were no known contingent liabilities (including guarantees, pending litigation, taxes and other claims) that management believes will be material in relation to the Company's financial statements, nor were there any material commit ments outside the normal course of business. NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS In 2024, the Company adopted ASU No. 2022-04 (Subtopic 405-50), Liabilities - Supplier Finance Programs, which requires disclosures about the use of supplier finance programs. This standard has no impact on the accounting for supplier finance programs and did not materially impact the Company's disclosures. In 2023, the Company adopted ASU No. 2021-10 (Topic 832), Government Assistance, which requires annual disclosures about certain types of government assistance received. This standard has no impact on the accounting for government assistance and did not materially impact the Company's disclosures. In 2022, the Company adopted three accounting standard updates, each of which had an immaterial or no impact on the Company's financial statements. These included: • Updates to Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 805, Business Combinations , which clarify the accounting for contract assets and liabilities assumed in a business combination. In general, this will result in contract liabilities being recognized at their historical amounts under ASC 606, rather than at fair value in accordance with the general requirements of ASC 805. • Updates to ASC 740, Income Taxes , which require the recognition of a franchise tax that is partially based on income as an income-based tax with any incremental amount as a non-income based tax. These updates also make certain changes to intra-period tax allocation principles and interim tax calculations. • Updates to ASC 321, Equity Securities , ASC 323 Investments - Equity Method and Joint Ventures , and ASC 815, Derivatives and Hedging , which clarify how to account for the transition into and out of the equity method of accounting when evaluating observable transactions. 35 FISCAL 2025 OUTLOOK For fiscal year 2025, consolidated net sales from continuing operations are expected to be up 3.5 to 5.5 percent, with underlying sales up 3 to 5 percent, excluding a 0.5 percent favorable impact from foreign currency translation. Earnings per share are expected to be $4.42 to $4.62, while adjusted earnings per share are expected to be $5.85 to $6.05 (see the following reconciliation). Operating cash flow is expected to be $3.6 to $3.7 billion and free cash flow, which excludes projected capital spending of approximately $0.4 billion, is expected to be $3.2 to $3.3 billion. The fiscal 2025 outlook assumes approximately $2.0 billion returned to shareholders through share repurchases (including approximately $1.0 billion expected to be completed in the first fiscal quarter) and approximately $1.2 billion of dividend payments.