********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Our business and operations are subject to many risks.  The risks described below may not be the only risks we face, as our business and operations may also be subject to risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently believe are immaterial.  If any of the events or circumstances described below actually occurs, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be materially and adversely affected and the trading price of our common stock could decline.  The following risk factors should be read in conjunction with the other information contained herein, including the consolidated financial statements and the related notes.  Unless the context requires otherwise, "we," "us," "our" and "EOG" refer to EOG Resources, Inc. and its subsidiaries. Risks Related to our Financial Condition, Results of Operations and Cash Flows Crude oil, NGLs and natural gas prices are volatile, and a substantial and extended decline in commodity prices can have a material and adverse effect on us. Prices for crude oil and natural gas (including prices for natural gas liquids (NGLs) and condensate) fluctuate widely.  Among the interrelated factors that can or could cause these price fluctuations are: • domestic and worldwide supplies of, and consumer and industrial/commercial demand for, crude oil, NGLs and natural gas; • domestic and international drilling activity; • the actions of other crude oil producing and exporting nations, including the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries; • worldwide economic conditions, geopolitical factors and political conditions, including, but not limited to, the imposition of tariffs or trade or other economic sanctions, political instability or armed conflict in oil and gas producing regions; • the duration and economic and financial impact of epidemics, pandemics or other public health issues, such as the COVID-19 pandemic; • the availability, proximity and capacity of appropriate transportation, gathering, processing, compression, storage, refining and export facilities; • the price and availability of, and demand for, competing energy sources, including alternative energy sources; • the effect of worldwide energy conservation measures, alternative fuel requirements and climate change-related legislation, policies, initiatives and developments; • technological advances and consumer and industrial/commercial behavior, preferences and attitudes, in each case affecting energy generation, transmission, storage and consumption; • the nature and extent of governmental regulation, including environmental and other climate change-related regulation, regulation of financial derivative transactions and hedging activities, tax laws and regulations and laws and regulations with respect to the import and export of crude oil, NGLs, and natural gas and related commodities; • the level and effect of trading in commodity futures markets, including trading by commodity price speculators and others; and • natural disasters, weather conditions and changes in weather patterns. The above-described factors and the volatility of commodity prices make it difficult to predict crude oil, NGLs and natural gas prices in 2023 and thereafter.  As a result, there can be no assurance that the prices for crude oil, NGLs and/or natural gas will sustain, or increase from, their current levels, nor can there be any assurance that the prices for crude oil, NGLs and/or natural gas will not decline. Our cash flows, financial condition and results of operations depend to a great extent on prevailing commodity prices.  Accordingly, substantial and extended declines in commodity prices can materially and adversely affect the amount of cash flows we have available for our capital expenditures and operating expenses; the terms on which we can access the credit and capital markets; our results of operations; and our financial condition, including (but not limited to) our ability to pay dividends on our common stock.  As a result, the trading price of our common stock may be materially and adversely affected. Lower commodity prices can also reduce the amount of crude oil, NGLs and natural gas that we can produce economically.  Substantial and extended declines in the prices of these commodities can render uneconomic a portion of our exploration, development and exploitation projects, resulting in our having to make downward adjustments to our estimated reserves and also possibly shut in or plug and abandon certain wells.  In addition, significant prolonged decreases in commodity prices may cause the expected future cash flows from our properties to fall below their respective net book values, which would require us to write down the value of our properties.  Such reserve write-downs and asset impairments can materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial position and, in turn, the trading price of our common stock. 14 Our cost-mitigation initiatives and actions may not offset, largely or at all, the impacts of inflationary pressures on our operating costs and capital expenditures. Beginning in the second half of 2021 and continuing throughout 2022, we, similar to other companies in our industry, experienced inflationary pressures on our operating costs and capital expenditures - namely the costs of fuel, steel (i.e., wellbore tubulars and facilities manufactured using steel), labor and drilling and completion services.  Such inflationary pressures on our operating and capital costs, which we currently expect to continue in 2023, have impacted our cash flows and results of operations.  We have undertaken, and plan to continue with, certain initiatives and actions (such as agreements with service providers to secure the costs and availability of services) to mitigate such inflationary pressures.  However, there can be no assurance that such efforts will offset, largely or at all, the impacts of any future inflationary pressures on our operating costs and capital expenditures and, in turn, our cash flows and results of operations.  For additional discussion, see ITEM 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Overview – Recent Developments. We have substantial capital requirements, and we may be unable to obtain needed financing on satisfactory terms, if at all. We make, and expect to continue to make, substantial capital expenditures for the acquisition, exploration, development and production of crude oil, NGLs and natural gas reserves.  We intend to finance our capital expenditures primarily through our cash flows from operations and cash on hand and, to a lesser extent and if and as necessary, commercial paper borrowings, bank borrowings, borrowings under our revolving credit facility and public and private equity and debt offerings. Lower crude oil, NGLs and natural gas prices, however, reduce our cash flows and could also delay or impair our ability to consummate any planned divestitures. Further, if the condition of the credit and capital markets materially declines, we might not be able to obtain financing on terms we consider acceptable, if at all.  In addition, weakness and/or volatility in domestic and global financial markets or economic conditions or a depressed commodity price environment may increase the interest rates that lenders and commercial paper investors require us to pay or adversely affect our ability to finance our capital expenditures through equity or debt offerings or other borrowings. Similarly, a reduction in our cash flows (for example, as a result of lower crude oil, natural gas and/or NGLs prices or unanticipated well shut-ins) and the corresponding adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations may also increase the interest rates that lenders and commercial paper investors require us to pay.  A substantial increase in interest rates would decrease our net cash flows available for reinvestment.  Any of these factors could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Further, our ability to obtain financings, our borrowing costs and the terms of any financings are, in part, dependent on the credit ratings assigned to our debt by independent credit rating agencies.  The interrelated factors that may impact our credit ratings include our debt levels; planned capital expenditures and sales of assets; near-term and long-term production growth opportunities; liquidity; asset quality; cost structure; product mix; and commodity pricing levels (including, but not limited to, the estimates and assumptions of credit rating agencies with respect to future commodity prices).  We cannot provide any assurance that our current credit ratings will remain in effect for any given period of time or that our credit ratings will be raised in the future, nor can we provide any assurance that any of our credit ratings will not be lowered. In addition, companies in the oil and gas sector may be exposed to increasing reputational risks and, in turn, certain financial risks.  Specifically, certain financial institutions (including certain investment advisors and sovereign wealth, pension and endowment funds), in response to concerns related to climate change and the requests and other influence of environmental groups and similar stakeholders, have elected to shift some or all of their investments away from oil and gas-related sectors, and additional financial institutions and other investors may elect to do likewise in the future.  As a result, fewer financial institutions and other investors may be willing to invest in, and provide capital to, companies in the oil and gas sector.  A material reduction in capital available to the oil and gas sector could make it more difficult (e.g., due to a lack of investor interest in our equity or debt securities) and/or more costly (e.g., due to higher interest rates on our debt securities or other borrowings) to secure funding for our operations, which, in turn, could adversely affect our ability to successfully carry out our business strategy and have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operations. 15 Reserve estimates depend on many interpretations and assumptions.  Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations and assumptions could cause the reported quantities of our reserves to be materially misstated. Estimating quantities of crude oil, NGLs and natural gas reserves and future net cash flows from such reserves is a complex, inexact process.  It requires interpretations of available technical data and various assumptions, including assumptions relating to economic factors, made by our management.  Any significant inaccuracies in these interpretations or assumptions could cause the reported quantities of our reserves and future net cash flows from such reserves to be overstated or understated.  Also, the data for a given reservoir may also change substantially over time as a result of numerous factors including, but not limited to, additional development activity, evolving production history, continual reassessment of the viability of production under varying economic conditions and improvements and other changes in geological, geophysical and engineering evaluation methods. To prepare estimates of our economically recoverable crude oil, NGLs and natural gas reserves and future net cash flows from our reserves, we analyze many variable factors, such as historical production from the area compared with production rates from other producing areas.  We also analyze available geological, geophysical, production and engineering data, and the extent, quality and reliability of this data can vary.  The process also involves economic assumptions relating to commodity prices, production costs, gathering, processing, compression, storage and transportation costs, severance, ad valorem and other applicable taxes, capital expenditures and workover and remedial costs.  Many of these factors are or may be beyond our control.  Our actual reserves and future net cash flows from such reserves most likely will vary from our estimates.  Any significant variance, including any significant downward revisions to our existing reserve estimates, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and, in turn, the trading price of our common stock.  For related discussion, see ITEM 2, Properties - Oil and Gas Exploration and Production - Properties and Reserves and Supplemental Information to Consolidated Financial Statements. If we fail to acquire or find sufficient additional reserves over time, our reserves and production will decline from their current levels. The rate of production from crude oil and natural gas properties generally declines as reserves are produced.  Except to the extent that we conduct successful exploration, exploitation and development activities resulting in additional reserves, acquire additional properties containing reserves or, through engineering studies, identify additional behind-pipe zones or secondary recovery reserves, our reserves will decline as they are produced.  Maintaining our production of crude oil, NGLs and natural gas at, or increasing our production from, current levels, is, therefore, highly dependent upon our level of success in acquiring or finding additional reserves, which may be adversely impacted by bans or restrictions on drilling.  To the extent we are unsuccessful in acquiring or finding additional reserves, our future cash flows and results of operations and, in turn, the trading price of our common stock could be materially and adversely affected. Our ability to declare and pay dividends is subject to certain considerations. Dividends are authorized and determined by our Board of Directors (Board) in its sole discretion and depend upon a number of factors, including: • cash available for dividends; • our results of operations and anticipated future results of operations; • our financial condition, especially in relation to the anticipated future capital expenditures and other commitments required to conduct our operations and carry out our business strategy; • our operating expenses; • the levels of dividends paid by comparable companies; and • other factors our Board deems relevant. We expect to continue to pay dividends to our stockholders; however, our Board may reduce our dividend or cease declaring dividends at any time, including if it determines that our current or forecasted future cash flows provided by our operating activities (after deducting our capital expenditures and other commitments) are not sufficient to pay our desired levels of dividends to our stockholders or to pay dividends to our stockholders at all.  Any reduction in the amount of dividends we pay to stockholders could have an adverse effect on the trading price of our common stock. 16 Our hedging activities may prevent us from fully benefiting from increases in crude oil, NGLs and natural gas prices and may expose us to other risks, including counterparty risk. We use financial derivative instruments (primarily financial basis swap, price swap, option, swaption and collar contracts) to hedge the impact of fluctuations in crude oil, NGLs and natural gas prices on our results of operations and cash flows.  To the extent that we engage in hedging activities to protect ourselves against commodity price declines, we may be prevented from fully realizing the benefits of increases in crude oil, NGLs and natural gas prices above the prices established by our hedging contracts.  A portion of our forecasted production for 2023 is subject to fluctuating market prices. If we are ultimately unable to hedge additional production volumes for 2023 and beyond, we may be materially and adversely impacted by any declines in commodity prices, which may result in lower net cash provided by our operating activities.  In addition, our hedging activities may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which the counterparties to our hedging contracts fail to perform under the contracts. The inability of our customers and other contractual counterparties to satisfy their obligations to us may have a material and adverse effect on us. We have various customers for the crude oil, natural gas and related commodities that we produce as well as various other contractual counterparties, including several financial institutions and affiliates of financial institutions.  Domestic and global economic conditions, including the financial condition of financial institutions generally, may adversely affect the ability of our customers and other contractual counterparties to pay amounts owed to us from time to time and to otherwise satisfy their contractual obligations to us, as well as their ability to access the credit and capital markets for such purposes. Moreover, our customers and other contractual counterparties may be unable to satisfy their contractual obligations to us for reasons unrelated to these conditions and factors, such as (i) the unavailability of required facilities or equipment due to mechanical failure or market conditions or (ii) financial, operational or strategic actions taken by the customer or counterparty that adversely impact its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and, in turn, its ability to satisfy its contractual obligations to us.  Furthermore, if a customer is unable to satisfy its contractual obligation to purchase crude oil, natural gas or related commodities from us, we may be unable to sell such production to another customer on terms we consider acceptable, if at all, due to the geographic location of such production; the availability, proximity and capacity of appropriate gathering, processing, compression, storage, transportation, export and refining facilities; or market or other factors and conditions. The inability of our customers and other contractual counterparties to pay amounts owed to us and to otherwise satisfy their contractual obligations to us may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Risks Related to our Operations Drilling crude oil and natural gas wells is a high-risk activity and subjects us to a variety of risks that we cannot control. Drilling crude oil and natural gas wells, including development wells, involves numerous risks, including the risk that we may not encounter commercially productive crude oil, NGLs and/or natural gas reserves.  As a result, we may not recover all or any portion of our investment in new wells. Specifically, we often are uncertain as to the future cost or timing of drilling, completing and operating wells, and our drilling operations and those of our third-party operators may be curtailed, delayed or canceled, the cost of such operations may increase and/or our results of operations and cash flows from such operations may be impacted, as a result of a variety of factors, including: • unexpected drilling conditions; • leasehold title problems; • pressure or irregularities in formations; • equipment failures or accidents; • adverse weather conditions, such as winter storms, flooding, tropical storms and hurricanes, and changes in weather patterns; • compliance with, or changes in (including the adoption of new), environmental, health and safety laws and regulations relating to air emissions, hydraulic fracturing, access to and use of water, disposal or other discharge (e.g., into injection wells) of produced water, drilling fluids and other wastes, laws and regulations imposing conditions or restrictions on drilling and completion operations and on the transportation of crude oil, NGLs and natural gas, and other laws and regulations, such as tax laws and regulations; • the availability and timely issuance of required federal, state, tribal and other permits and licenses, which may be adversely affected by (among other things) bans or restrictions on drilling, government shutdowns or other suspensions of, or delays in, government services; 17 • the availability of, costs associated with and terms of contractual arrangements for properties, including mineral licenses and leases, pipelines, crude oil hauling trucks and qualified drivers and facilities and equipment to gather, process, compress, store, transport, market and export crude oil, NGLs and natural gas and related commodities; and • the costs of, or shortages or delays in the availability of, drilling rigs, hydraulic fracturing services, pressure pumping equipment and supplies, tubular materials, water, sand, disposal facilities, qualified personnel and other necessary facilities, equipment, materials, supplies and services. Our failure to recover our investment in wells, increases in the costs of our drilling operations or those of our third-party operators, and/or curtailments, delays or cancellations of our drilling operations or those of our third-party operators, in each case, due to any of the above factors or other factors, may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations.  For related discussion of the risks and potential losses and liabilities inherent in our crude oil and natural gas operations generally, see the immediately following risk factor. Our crude oil, NGLs and natural gas operations and supporting activities and operations involve many risks and expose us to potential losses and liabilities, and insurance may not fully protect us against these risks and potential losses and liabilities. Our crude oil, NGLs and natural gas operations and supporting activities and operations are subject to all of the risks associated with exploring and drilling for, and producing, gathering, processing, compressing, storing, transporting and exporting crude oil, NGLs and natural gas, including the risks of: • well blowouts and cratering; • loss of well control; • crude oil spills, natural gas leaks, formation water (i.e., produced water) spills and pipeline ruptures; • pipe failures and casing collapses; • uncontrollable flows of crude oil, natural gas, formation water or drilling fluids; • releases of chemicals, wastes or pollutants; • adverse weather events, such as winter storms, flooding, tropical storms and hurricanes, and other natural disasters; • fires and explosions; • terrorism, vandalism and physical, electronic and cybersecurity breaches; • formations with abnormal or unexpected pressures; • leaks or spills in connection with, or associated with, the gathering, processing, compression, storage, transportation and export of crude oil, NGLs and natural gas; and • malfunctions of, or damage to, gathering, processing, compression, storage, transportation and export facilities and equipment and other facilities and equipment utilized in support of our crude oil and natural gas operations. If any of these events occur, we could incur losses, liabilities and other additional costs as a result of: • injury or loss of life; • damage to, or destruction of, property, facilities, equipment and crude oil and natural gas reservoirs; • pollution or other environmental damage; • regulatory investigations and penalties as well as cleanup and remediation responsibilities and costs; • suspension or interruption of our operations, including due to injunction; • repairs necessary to resume operations; and • compliance with laws and regulations enacted as a result of such events. We maintain insurance against many, but not all, such losses and liabilities in accordance with what we believe are customary industry practices and in amounts and at costs that we believe to be prudent and commercially practicable.  However, the occurrence of any of these events and any losses or liabilities incurred as a result of such events, if uninsured or in excess of our insurance coverage, would reduce the funds available to us for our operations and could, in turn, have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  In the future, we may not be able to maintain or obtain insurance of the type and amount we desire at reasonable rates.  As a result of market conditions, premiums, retentions and deductibles for our insurance policies will change over time and could escalate.  In addition, some forms of insurance may become unavailable or unavailable on economically acceptable terms. 18 Our ability to sell and deliver our crude oil, NGLs and natural gas production could be materially and adversely affected if adequate gathering, processing, compression, storage, transportation, refining and export facilities and equipment are unavailable. The sale of our crude oil, NGLs and natural gas production depends on a number of factors beyond our control, including the availability, proximity and capacity of, and costs associated with, gathering, processing, compression, storage, transportation, refining and export facilities and equipment owned by third parties.  These facilities and equipment may be temporarily unavailable to us due to market conditions, regulatory reasons, mechanical reasons or other factors or conditions, and may not be available to us in the future on terms we consider acceptable, if at all.  In particular, in certain newer plays, the capacity of gathering, processing, compression, storage, transportation, refining and export facilities and equipment may not be sufficient to accommodate potential production from existing and new wells.  In addition, lack of financing, construction and permitting delays, permitting costs and regulatory or other constraints could limit or delay the construction, manufacture or other acquisition of new gathering, processing, compression, storage, transportation, refining and export facilities and equipment by third parties or us, and we may experience delays or increased costs in accessing the pipelines, gathering systems or transportation systems necessary to transport our production to points of sale or delivery. Any significant change in market or other conditions affecting gathering, processing, compression, storage, transportation, refining and export facilities and equipment or the availability of these facilities and equipment, including due to our failure or inability to obtain access to these facilities and equipment on terms acceptable to us or at all, could materially and adversely affect our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. A portion of our crude oil, NGLs and natural gas production may be subject to interruptions that could have a material and adverse effect on us. A portion of our crude oil, NGLs and natural gas production may be interrupted, or shut in, from time to time for various reasons, including, but not limited to, as a result of accidents, weather conditions, the unavailability of gathering, processing, compression, storage, transportation, refining or export facilities or equipment or field labor issues, or intentionally as a result of market conditions such as crude oil, NGLs or natural gas prices that we deem uneconomic.  If a substantial amount of our production is interrupted or shut in, our cash flows and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Our operations are substantially dependent upon the availability of water.  Restrictions on our ability to obtain water may have a material and adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Water is an essential component of our operations, both during the drilling and hydraulic fracturing processes. Limitations or restrictions on our ability to secure sufficient amounts of water (including limitations resulting from natural causes such as drought) could materially and adversely impact our operations.  Further, severe drought conditions can result in local authorities taking steps to restrict the use of water in their jurisdiction for drilling and hydraulic fracturing in order to protect the local water supply. If we are unable to obtain water to use in its operations from local sources, it may need to be obtained from new sources and transported to drilling sites, resulting in increased costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We have limited control over the activities on properties that we do not operate. Some of the properties in which we have an interest are operated by other companies and involve third-party working interest owners.  As a result, we have limited ability to influence or control the operation or future development of such properties, including compliance with environmental, safety and other regulations, or the amount of capital expenditures that we will be required to fund with respect to such properties.  Moreover, we are dependent on the other working interest owners of such projects to fund their contractual share of the capital expenditures of such projects.  In addition, a third-party operator could also decide to shut-in or curtail production from wells, or plug and abandon marginal wells, on properties owned by that operator during periods of lower crude oil, NGLs or natural gas prices.  These limitations and our dependence on the operator and third-party working interest owners for these projects could cause us to incur unexpected future costs, lower production and materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 19 If we acquire crude oil, NGLs and natural gas properties, our failure to fully identify existing and potential issues, to accurately estimate reserves, production rates or costs, or to effectively integrate the acquired properties into our operations could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. From time to time, we seek to acquire crude oil and natural gas properties.  Although we perform reviews of properties to be acquired in a manner that we believe is duly diligent and consistent with industry practices, reviews of records and properties may not necessarily reveal existing or potential issues (such as title or environmental issues), nor may they permit us to become sufficiently familiar with the properties in order to fully assess their deficiencies and potential.  Even when issues with a property are identified, we often may assume environmental and other risks and liabilities in connection with acquired properties pursuant to the acquisition agreements. In addition, there are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of crude oil, NGLs and natural gas reserves (as discussed further above), actual future production rates and associated costs with respect to acquired properties.  Actual reserves, production rates and costs may vary substantially from those assumed in our estimates.  In addition, an acquisition may have a material and adverse effect on our business and results of operations, particularly during the periods in which the operations of the acquired properties are being integrated into our ongoing operations or if we are unable to effectively integrate the acquired properties into our ongoing operations. Competition in the oil and gas exploration and production industry is intense, and some of our competitors have greater resources than we have. We compete with major integrated oil and gas companies, government-affiliated oil and gas companies and other independent oil and gas companies for the acquisition of licenses and leases, properties and reserves and access to the facilities, equipment, materials, services and employees and other personnel (including geologists, geophysicists, engineers and other specialists) necessary to explore for, develop, produce, market and transport crude oil, NGLs and natural gas.  Certain of our competitors have financial and other resources substantially greater than those we possess and have established strategic long-term positions or strong governmental relationships in countries or areas in which we may seek new or expanded entry.  As a consequence, we may be at a competitive disadvantage in certain respects, such as in bidding for drilling rights or in accessing necessary services, facilities, equipment, materials and personnel.  In addition, our larger competitors may have a competitive advantage when responding to factors that affect demand for crude oil, NGLs and natural gas, such as changing worldwide prices and levels of production and the cost and availability of alternative fuels.  We also face competition from competing energy sources, such as renewable energy sources. Risks Related to ESG/Sustainability, Regulatory and Legal Matters Developments and concerns related to climate change may have a material and adverse effect on us. Governmental and regulatory bodies, investors, consumers, industry and other stakeholders have been increasingly focused on climate change matters in recent years.  This focus, together with changes in consumer and industrial/commercial behavior, preferences and attitudes with respect to the generation and consumption of energy, the use of crude oil, NGLs and natural gas and the use of products manufactured with, or powered by, crude oil, NGLs and natural gas, may result in (i) the enactment of climate change-related regulations, policies and initiatives (at the government, corporate and/or investor community levels), including alternative energy requirements, energy conservation measures and emissions-related legislation, (ii) technological advances with respect to the generation, transmission, storage and consumption of energy (e.g., wind, solar and hydrogen power, smart grid technology and battery technology) and (iii) increased availability of, and increased consumer and industrial/commercial demand for, non-hydrocarbon energy sources (e.g., alternative energy sources) and products manufactured with, or powered by, non-hydrocarbon sources (e.g., electric vehicles and renewable residential and commercial power supplies).  These developments may adversely affect the demand for products manufactured with, or powered by, crude oil, NGLs and natural gas and the demand for, and in turn the prices of, the crude oil, NGLs and natural gas that we sell.  See the risk factor above for a discussion of the impact of commodity prices (including fluctuations in commodity prices) on our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. In addition to potentially adversely affecting the demand for, and prices of, the crude oil, NGLs and natural gas that we produce and sell, such developments may also adversely impact, among other things, the availability to us of necessary third-party services and facilities that we rely on, which may increase our operational costs and adversely affect our ability to explore for, produce, transport and process crude oil, NGLs and natural gas and successfully carry out our business strategy.  For further discussion of the potential impact of such availability-related risks on our financial condition and results of operations, see the discussion in the section above entitled "Risks Related to our Operations." 20 Further, climate change-related developments may result in negative perceptions of the oil and gas industry and, in turn, reputational risks associated with the exploration for, and production of, hydrocarbons.  Such negative perceptions and reputational risks may adversely affect our ability to successfully carry out our business strategy, for example, by adversely affecting the availability and cost of capital to us.  For further discussion of the potential impact of such risks on our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations, see the discussion below in this section and in the section above entitled "Risks Related to Our Operations." In addition, the enactment of climate change-related regulations, policies and initiatives (at the government, corporate and/or investor community levels) may also result in increases in our compliance costs and other operating costs.  For further discussion regarding the risks to us of climate change-related regulations, policies and initiatives, see the discussion in this section.  Also, continuing political and social concerns relating to climate change may have adverse effects on our business and operations, such as a greater potential for shareholder activism, governmental inquiries and enforcement actions and litigation (including, but not limited to, litigation brought by governmental entities and shareholder litigation) and resulting expenses and potential disruption to our day-to-day operations. Regulatory, legislative and policy changes may materially and adversely affect the oil and gas exploration and production industry. New or revised rules, regulations and policies may be issued, and new legislation may be proposed, that could impact the oil and gas exploration and production industry.  Such rules, regulations, policies and legislation may affect, among other things, (i) permitting for oil and gas drilling on state, tribal and federal lands, (ii) the leasing of state, tribal and federal lands for oil and gas development, (iii) the regulation of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and/or other climate change-related matters associated with oil and gas operations, (iv) the use of hydraulic fracturing on state, tribal and federal lands, (v) the calculation of royalty payments in respect of oil and gas production from state, tribal and federal lands (including, but not limited to, an increase in applicable royalty percentages), (vi) U.S. federal income tax laws applicable to oil and gas exploration and production companies and (vii) the use of financial derivative instruments to hedge the financial impact of fluctuations in crude oil, NGLs and natural gas prices. Further, such regulatory, legislative and policy changes may, among other things, result in additional permitting and disclosure requirements, additional operating restrictions and/or the imposition of various conditions and restrictions on drilling and completion operations or other aspects of our business, any of which could lead to operational delays, increased operating and compliance costs and/or other impacts on our business and operations and could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and capital expenditures. For related discussion, see the below risk factors regarding legislative and regulatory matters impacting the oil and gas exploration and production industry and the discussion in ITEM 1, Business - Regulation. We incur certain costs to comply with government regulations, particularly regulations relating to environmental protection and safety, and could incur even greater costs in the future. Our crude oil, NGLs and natural gas operations and supporting activities are regulated extensively by federal, state, tribal and local governments and regulatory agencies, both domestically and in the foreign countries in which we do business, and are subject to interruption or termination by governmental and regulatory authorities based on environmental, health, safety or other considerations.  Moreover, we have incurred and will continue to incur costs in our efforts to comply with the requirements of environmental, health, safety and other regulations.  Further, the regulatory environment could change in ways that we cannot predict and that might substantially increase our costs of compliance and/or adversely affect our business and operations and, in turn, materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and capital expenditures. Specifically, as a current or past owner or lessee and operator of crude oil and natural gas properties, we are subject to various federal, state, tribal, local and foreign regulations relating to the discharge of materials into, and the protection of, the environment.  These regulations may, among other things, impose liability on us for the cost of pollution cleanup resulting from current or past operations, subject us to liability for pollution damages and require suspension or cessation of operations in affected areas.  Changes in, or additions to, these regulations, could lead to increased operating and compliance costs and, in turn, materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and capital expenditures. The regulation of hydraulic fracturing is primarily conducted at the state and local level through permitting and other compliance requirements and, further, some state and local governments have imposed or have considered imposing various conditions and restrictions on drilling and completion operations.  The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (U.S. EPA) has issued regulations relating to hydraulic fracturing and there have been various other proposals to regulate hydraulic fracturing at the federal level. 21 Any new requirements, restrictions, conditions or prohibitions could lead to operational delays and increased operating and compliance costs and, further, could delay or effectively prevent the development of crude oil and natural gas from formations which would not be economically viable without the use of hydraulic fracturing.  Accordingly, our production of crude oil and natural gas could be materially and adversely affected.  For additional discussion regarding hydraulic fracturing regulation, see Regulation of Hydraulic Fracturing and Other Operations - United States under ITEM 1, Business - Regulation. We will continue to monitor and assess any proposed or new policies, legislation, regulations and treaties in the areas where we operate to determine the impact on our operations and take appropriate actions, where necessary. We are unable to predict the timing, scope and effect of any currently proposed or future laws, regulations or treaties, but the direct and indirect costs of such laws, regulations and treaties (if enacted) could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and capital expenditures.  See also the risk factor below regarding the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act with respect to regulation of financial derivative transactions and entities (such as EOG) that participate in such transactions. Regulations, government policies and government and corporate initiatives relating to greenhouse gas emissions and climate change could have a significant impact on our operations and we could incur significant cost in the future to comply. Local, state, federal and international regulatory bodies have been increasingly focused on GHG emissions and climate change issues in recent years.  For example, we are subject to the U.S. EPA’s rule requiring annual reporting of GHG emissions which is subject to amendment from time to time.  In addition, our oil and gas production and processing operations are subject to the U.S. EPA's new source performance standards applicable to emissions of volatile organic compounds from new, modified and reconstructed crude oil and natural gas wells and equipment located at natural gas production gathering and booster stations and gas processing plants. Our operations will also be subject to the methane emissions charges, once published by the U.S. EPA, imposed under the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022. At the international level, in December 2015, the U.S. participated in the 21st Conference of the Parties of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in Paris, France.  The Paris Agreement (adopted at the conference) calls for nations to undertake efforts with respect to global temperatures and GHG emissions.  The Paris Agreement went into effect in November 2016 and to which the United States formally rejoined in February 2021.   The United States has established an economy-wide target of reducing its net GHG emissions by 50-52 percent below 2005 levels by 2030 and achieving net zero GHG emissions economy-wide by no later than 2050.  In addition, many state and local officials have stated their intent to intensify efforts to uphold the commitments set forth in the international accord. It is possible that the Paris Agreement and subsequent domestic and international regulations and government policies related to climate change and GHG emissions will have adverse effects on the market for crude oil, NGLs and natural gas as well as adverse effects on the business and operations of companies engaged in the exploration for, and production of, crude oil, NGLs and natural gas. We are unable to predict the timing, scope and effect of any currently proposed or future investigations, laws, regulations, treaties or policies regarding climate change and GHG emissions (including any laws and regulations that may be enacted in the U.S.), but the direct and indirect costs of such developments (if enacted, issued or applied) could materially and adversely affect our operations, financial condition, results of operations and capital expenditures.  The potential increase in the costs of our operations could include costs to operate and maintain our facilities, install new emission controls on our facilities, acquire allowances to authorize our GHG emissions, pay taxes or fees related to our GHG emissions, or administer and manage a GHG emissions program.  In addition, changes in regulatory policies that result in a reduction in the demand for hydrocarbon products that are deemed to contribute to GHG emissions, or restrictions on their use, could also adversely affect market demand for, and in turn the prices we receive for our production of, crude oil, NGLs and natural gas.  For additional discussion regarding the regulation of GHG emissions and climate change generally, see ITEM 1, Business – Regulation. Our initiatives, targets and ambitions related to emissions and other ESG matters, including our related public statements and disclosures, may expose us to certain risks. We have developed, and will continue to develop, targets and ambitions related to our environmental, social and governance (ESG) initiatives, including, but not limited to, our emissions reduction targets and our ambition to reach net zero Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions by 2040.  Our public disclosures and other statements related to these initiatives, targets and ambitions reflect our plans and expectations at the time such disclosures and statements are made and are not a guarantee the initiatives will be successfully developed, implemented and carried out or that the targets or ambitions will be achieved or achieved on the anticipated timelines. 22 Our ability to achieve our ESG-related targets and ambitions is subject to numerous factors and conditions, some of which are outside of our control and include evolving government regulation, the pace of changes in technology, the successful development and deployment of existing or new technologies and business solutions on a commercial scale, the availability, timing and cost of necessary equipment, goods, services and personnel, and the availability of requisite financing and federal and state incentive programs.  For example, we are exploring technology to capture and store carbon dioxide emissions, which includes a pilot carbon capture and storage (CCS) project related to our operations. CCS projects face operational, technological, legal and regulatory risks that could be considerable due to the early-stage nature of such projects and the CCS sector generally.  Our ability to successfully develop, implement and carry out our CCS activities will depend on a number of factors that we will not be able to fully control, including timing of regulatory approvals and availability of subsurface pore space. Further, financial or tax incentives in respect of CCS projects could be changed or terminated.  In addition, our failure to properly operate a CCS project could put at risk certain governmental tax credits and potentially expose us to commercial, legal, reputational and other risks. In addition, the pursuit and achievement of our current or future initiatives, targets and ambitions relating to the reduction of GHG emissions may increase our costs, including requiring us to purchase emissions credits or offsets, the availability and price of which are outside of our control, and may impact or otherwise limit our ability to execute on our business strategy.  Such initiatives, targets and ambitions are also subject to business, regulatory, economic and competitive uncertainties and contingencies, and required advancements in technology.  Also, our continuing efforts to research, establish, accomplish and accurately report on our emissions and other ESG-related initiatives, targets and ambitions may create additional operational risks and expenses and expose us to reputational, legal and other risks. Further, investor and regulatory focus on ESG matters continues to increase.  If our ESG-related initiatives, targets and ambitions do not meet our investors' or other stakeholders' evolving expectations and standards, investment in our stock may be viewed as less attractive and our reputation and contractual, employment and other business relationships may be adversely impacted. Tax laws and regulations applicable to crude oil and natural gas exploration and production companies may change over time, and such changes could materially and adversely affect our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. From time to time, legislation has been proposed that, if enacted into law, would make significant changes to U.S. federal income tax laws applicable to crude oil and natural gas exploration and production companies, such as with respect to the intangible drilling and development costs deduction and bonus tax depreciation.  While these specific changes were not included in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act signed into law in December 2017, no accurate prediction can be made as to whether any such legislative changes or similar or other tax law changes will be proposed in the future and, if enacted, what the specific provisions or the effective date of any such legislation would be.  The elimination of certain U.S. federal income tax deductions, as well as any other changes to, or the imposition of new, federal, state, local or non-U.S. taxes (including the imposition of, or increases in, production, severance or similar taxes), could materially and adversely affect our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, legislation may be proposed with respect to the enactment of a tax levied on the carbon content of fuels based on the GHG emissions associated with such fuels.  A carbon tax, whether imposed on producers or consumers, would generally increase the prices for crude oil, NGLs and natural gas.  Such price increases may, in turn, reduce demand for crude oil, NGLs and natural gas and materially and adversely affect our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. We are unable to predict the timing, scope and effect of any proposed or enacted tax law changes, but any such changes (if enacted) could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.  We will continue to monitor and assess any proposed or enacted tax law changes to determine the impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition and take appropriate actions, where necessary. Risks Related to Our International Operations We operate in other countries and, as a result, are subject to certain political, economic and other risks. Our operations in jurisdictions outside the U.S. are subject to various risks inherent in foreign operations.  These risks include, among other risks: • increases in taxes and governmental royalties; • changes in laws and policies governing the operations of foreign-based companies; • loss of revenue, loss of or damage to equipment, property and other assets and interruption of operations as a result of expropriation, nationalization, acts of terrorism, war, civil unrest and other political risks; • unilateral or forced renegotiation, modification or nullification of existing contracts with governmental entities; 23 • difficulties enforcing our rights against a governmental agency because of the doctrine of sovereign immunity and foreign sovereignty over international operations; and • currency restrictions or exchange rate fluctuations. Our international operations may also be adversely affected by U.S. laws and policies affecting foreign trade and taxation, including tariffs or trade or other economic sanctions; modifications to, or withdrawal from, international trade treaties; and U.S. laws with respect to participation in boycotts that are not supported by the U.S. government.  The realization of any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Unfavorable currency exchange rate fluctuations could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. The reporting currency for our financial statements is the U.S. dollar.  However, certain of our subsidiaries are located in countries other than the U.S. and have functional currencies other than the U.S. dollar.  The assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses of certain of these foreign subsidiaries are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar.  To prepare our consolidated financial statements, we must translate those assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses into U.S. dollars at then-applicable exchange rates.  Consequently, increases and decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar versus other currencies will affect the amount of these items in our consolidated financial statements, even if the amount has not changed in the original currency.  These translations could result in changes to our results of operations from period to period.  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022, EOG had no net operating revenues related to operations of our foreign subsidiaries whose functional currency was not the U.S. dollar. Risks Related to Cybersecurity, Outbreaks/Pandemics and Other External Factors Our business could be materially and adversely affected by security threats, including cybersecurity threats, and other disruptions. As an oil and gas producer, we face various security threats, including (i) cybersecurity threats to gain unauthorized access to, or control of, our sensitive information or to render our data or systems corrupted or unusable; (ii) threats to the security of our facilities and infrastructure or to the security of third-party facilities and infrastructure, such as gathering, transportation, processing, fractionation, refining and export facilities; and (iii) threats from terrorist acts.  The potential for such security threats has subjected our operations to increased risks that could have a material and adverse effect on our business. We rely extensively on information technology systems, including internally developed software, data hosting platforms, real-time data acquisition systems, third-party software, cloud services and other internally or externally hosted hardware and software platforms, to (i) estimate our oil and gas reserves, (ii) process and record financial and operating data, (iii) process and analyze all stages of our business operations, including exploration, drilling, completions, production, gathering and processing, transportation, pipelines and other related activities and (iv) communicate with our employees and vendors, suppliers and other third parties.  Further, our reliance on technology has increased due to the increased use of personal devices, remote communications and other work-from-home practices adopted in response to the COVID-19 pandemic.  Although we have implemented and invested in, and will continue to implement and invest in, controls, procedures and protections (including internal and external personnel) that are designed to protect our systems, identify and remediate on a regular basis vulnerabilities in our systems and related infrastructure and monitor and mitigate the risk of data loss and other cybersecurity threats, such measures cannot entirely eliminate cybersecurity threats and the controls, procedures and protections we have implemented and invested in may prove to be ineffective. Our systems and networks, and those of our business associates, may become the target of cybersecurity attacks, including, without limitation, denial-of-service attacks; malicious software; data privacy breaches by employees, insiders or others with authorized access; cyber or phishing-attacks; ransomware; attempts to gain unauthorized access to our data and systems; and other electronic security breaches.  If any of these security breaches were to occur, we could suffer disruptions to our normal operations, including our drilling, completion, production and corporate functions, which could materially and adversely affect us in a variety of ways, including, but not limited to, the following: • unauthorized access to, and release of, our business data, reserves information, strategic information or other sensitive or proprietary information, which could have a material and adverse effect on our ability to compete for oil and gas resources, or reduce our competitive advantage over other companies; • data corruption, communication interruption, or other operational disruptions during our drilling activities, which could result in our failure to reach the intended target or a drilling incident; • data corruption or operational disruptions of our production-related infrastructure, which could result in loss of production or accidental discharges; 24 • unauthorized access to, and release of, personal information of our royalty owners, employees and vendors, which could expose us to allegations that we did not sufficiently protect such information; • a cybersecurity attack on a vendor or service provider, which could result in supply chain disruptions and could delay or halt our operations; • a cybersecurity attack on third-party gathering, transportation, processing, fractionation, refining or export facilities, which could result in reduced demand for our production or delay or prevent us from transporting and marketing our production, in either case resulting in a loss of revenues; • a cybersecurity attack involving commodities exchanges or financial institutions could slow or halt commodities trading, thus preventing us from marketing our production or engaging in hedging activities, resulting in a loss of revenues; • a deliberate corruption of our financial or operating data could result in events of non-compliance which could then lead to regulatory fines or penalties; • a cybersecurity attack on a communications network or power grid, which could cause operational disruptions resulting in a loss of revenues; and • a cybersecurity attack on our automated and surveillance systems, which could cause a loss of production and potential environmental hazards. Further, strategic targets, such as energy-related assets, may be at a greater risk of terrorist attacks or cybersecurity attacks than other targets in the United States.  Moreover, external digital technologies control nearly all of the crude oil and natural gas distribution and refining systems in the U.S. and abroad, which are necessary to transport and market our production.  A cybersecurity attack directed at, for example, crude oil, NGLs and natural gas distribution systems could (i) damage critical distribution and storage assets or the environment; (ii) disrupt energy supplies and markets, by delaying or preventing delivery of production to markets; and (iii) make it difficult or impossible to accurately account for production and settle transactions. Any such terrorist attack or cybersecurity attack that affects us, our customers, suppliers, or others with whom we do business and/or energy-related assets could have a material adverse effect on our business, including disruption of our operations, damage to our reputation, a loss of counterparty trust, reimbursement or other costs, increased compliance costs, significant litigation exposure and legal liability or regulatory fines, penalties or intervention.  Although we have business continuity plans in place, our operations may be adversely affected by significant and widespread disruption to our systems and the infrastructure that supports our business.  While we continue to evolve and modify our business continuity plans as well as our cyber threat detection and mitigation systems, there can be no assurance that they will be effective in avoiding disruption and business impacts.  Further, our insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for all resulting losses, and the cost to obtain adequate coverage may increase for us in the future and some insurance coverage may become more difficult to obtain, if available at all. While we have experienced limited cybersecurity incidents in the past, we have not had, to date, any business interruptions or material losses from breaches of cybersecurity.  However, there is no assurance that we will not suffer any such interruptions or losses in the future.  Further, as technologies evolve and cybersecurity threats become more sophisticated, we are continually expending additional resources to modify or enhance our security measures to protect against such threats and to identify and remediate on a regular basis any vulnerabilities in our information systems and related infrastructure that may be detected, and these expenditures in the future may be significant.  Additionally, the continuing and evolving threat of cybersecurity attacks has resulted in evolving legal and compliance matters, including increased regulatory focus on prevention, which could require us to expend significant additional resources to meet such requirements. Outbreaks of communicable diseases can adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Global or national health concerns, including a widespread outbreak of contagious disease, can, among other impacts, negatively impact the global economy, reduce demand and pricing for crude oil, NGLs and natural gas, lead to operational disruptions and limit our ability to execute on our business plan, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Furthermore, uncertainty regarding the impact of any outbreak of contagious disease could lead to increased volatility in crude oil, NGLs and natural gas prices. For example, the recent pandemic involving a highly transmissible and pathogenic coronavirus (COVID-19) and the measures taken to address and limit the spread of the virus adversely affected the economies and financial markets of the world, resulting in an economic downturn that negatively impacted global demand and prices for crude oil, NGLs and natural gas.  In fact, the substantial declines in crude oil, NGLs and natural gas prices that occurred in the first half of 2020 as a result of the economic downturn and overall reduction of demand prompted by the COVID-19 pandemic (and the oversupply of crude oil from certain foreign oil-exporting countries) materially and adversely affected the amount of cash flows we had available for our 2020 capital expenditures and other operating expenses, our results of operations during the first half of 2020 and the trading price of our common stock. 25 While the prices for crude oil, NGLs and natural gas have since recovered to at or above pre-pandemic levels, if such price declines were to reoccur and continue for an extended period of time, our cash flows and results of operations would be further adversely affected, as could the trading price of our common stock.  For further discussion regarding the potential impacts on us of lower commodity prices and extended declines in commodity prices, see the related discussion in the first risk factor in this section. Further, in the event of a future outbreak or pandemic, we may experience disruptions to commodities markets, equipment supply chains and the availability of our workforce, which could materially and adversely affect our ability to conduct our business and operations. In addition, if such a future outbreak or pandemic results in an economic downturn, our customers and other contractual parties may be unable to pay amounts owed to us from time to time and to otherwise satisfy their contractual obligations to us, and may be unable to access the credit and capital markets for such purposes. Such inability of our customers and other contractual counterparties may materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. There would be many variables and uncertainties associated with any future outbreak or pandemic, including the duration and severity of the outbreak; the emergence, contagiousness and threat of new and different strains of the virus; the development, availability, acceptance, and effectiveness of treatments or vaccines; the extent of travel restrictions, business closures and other measures imposed by governmental authorities; disruptions in the supply chain; a prolonged delay in the resumption of operations by one or more contractual parties; an increasingly competitive labor market due to a sustained labor shortage or increased turnover caused by the outbreak/pandemic; increased logistics costs; additional operating costs due to remote working arrangements, adherence to social distancing guidelines, and other related challenges; increased risk of cyberattacks on information technology systems used in remote working arrangements; increased privacy-related risks due to processing health-related personal information; absence of employees due to illness; the impact of the pandemic on EOG's customers and contractual counterparties; and other factors that may be currently unknown or considered immaterial, to fully assess the potential impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Terrorist activities and military and other actions could materially and adversely affect us. Terrorist attacks and the threat of terrorist attacks (including cyber-related attacks), whether domestic or foreign, as well as military or other actions taken in response to these acts, could cause instability in the global financial and energy markets.  The U.S. government has from time to time issued public warnings that indicate that energy-related assets, such as transportation and refining facilities, might be specific targets of terrorist organizations. Any such actions and the threat of such actions, including any resulting political instability or societal disruption, could materially and adversely affect us in unpredictable ways, including, but not limited to, the disruption of energy supplies and markets, the reduction of overall demand for crude oil, NGLs and natural gas, increased volatility in crude oil, NGLs and natural gas prices or the possibility that the facilities and other infrastructure on which we rely could be a direct target or an indirect casualty of an act of terrorism, and, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Weather and climate may have a significant and adverse impact on us. Demand for crude oil and natural gas is, to a degree, dependent on weather and climate, which impacts, among other things, the price we receive for the commodities that we produce and, in turn, our cash flows and results of operations.  For example, relatively warm temperatures during a winter season generally result in relatively lower demand for natural gas (as less natural gas is used to heat residences and businesses) and, as a result, lower prices for natural gas production during that season. In addition, there has been public discussion that climate change may be associated with more frequent or more extreme weather events, changes in temperature and precipitation patterns, changes to ground and surface water availability, and other related phenomena, which could affect some, or all, of our operations.  Our exploration, exploitation and development activities and equipment could be adversely affected by extreme weather events, such as winter storms, flooding and tropical storms and hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico, which may cause a loss of production from temporary cessation of activity or damaged facilities and equipment.  Such extreme weather events could also impact other areas of our operations, including access to our drilling and production facilities for routine operations, maintenance and repairs, the installation and operation of gathering, processing, compression, storage and/or transportation facilities and the availability of, and our access to, necessary third-party services and facilities, such as gathering, processing, compression, storage, transportation and export services and facilities.  Such extreme weather events and changes in weather patterns may materially and adversely affect our business and, in turn, our financial condition and results of operations. 26

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

Overview EOG Resources, Inc., together with its subsidiaries (collectively, EOG), is one of the largest independent (non-integrated) crude oil and natural gas companies in the United States with proved reserves in the United States and Trinidad.  EOG operates under a consistent business and operational strategy that focuses predominantly on maximizing the rate of return on investment of capital by controlling operating and capital costs and maximizing reserve recoveries.  Pursuant to this strategy, each prospective drilling location is evaluated by its estimated rate of return.  This strategy is intended to enhance the generation of cash flow and earnings from each unit of production on a cost-effective basis, allowing EOG to maximize long-term shareholder value and maintain a strong balance sheet.  EOG implements its strategy primarily by emphasizing the drilling of internally generated prospects in order to find and develop low-cost reserves.  Maintaining the lowest possible operating cost structure, coupled with efficient and safe operations and robust environmental stewardship practices and performance, is integral in the implementation of EOG's strategy. EOG realized net income of $7,759 million during 2022 as compared to net income of $4,664 million for 2021.  At December 31, 2022, EOG's total estimated net proved reserves were 4,238 million barrels of oil equivalent (MMBoe), an increase of 491 MMBoe from December 31, 2021.  During 2022, net proved crude oil and condensate and natural gas liquids (NGLs) reserves increased by 429 million barrels (MMBbl), and net proved natural gas reserves increased by 369 billion cubic feet or 62 MMBoe, in each case from December 31, 2021. Recent Developments Commodity Prices. Prices for crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas have historically been volatile. This volatility is expected to continue due to the many uncertainties associated with the world political and economic environment and the global supply of, and demand for, crude oil, NGLs and natural gas and the availability of other energy supplies, the relative competitive relationships of the various energy sources in the view of consumers and other factors. The market prices of crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas impact the amount of cash generated from EOG's operating activities, which, in turn, impact EOG's financial position and results of operations. For the year ended December 31, 2022, the average U.S. New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX) crude oil and natural gas prices were $94.23 per barrel and $6.64 per million British thermal units (MMBtu), respectively, representing increases of 39% and 72%, respectively, from the average NYMEX prices for the year ended December 31, 2021. Market prices for NGLs are influenced by the components extracted, including ethane, propane and butane and natural gasoline, among others, and the respective market pricing for each component. The increases in crude oil and natural gas prices during 2022 were due to numerous factors, including the continued recovery in demand for crude oil, natural gas and NGLs from the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic; low worldwide inventory levels; continued supply restraint by OPEC+ (a consortium of OPEC (Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries) and certain non-OPEC global producers); and the impact resulting from the ongoing conflict between Russia and Ukraine. Inflation Considerations; Availability of Materials, Labor & Services. Beginning in the second half of 2021 and continuing throughout 2022, EOG, similar to other companies in its industry, has experienced inflationary pressures on its operating and capital costs - namely the costs of fuel, steel (i.e., wellbore tubulars and facilities manufactured using steel), labor and drilling and completion services. Such inflationary pressures have resulted from (i) supply chain disruptions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and the resulting limited availability of certain materials and products manufactured using such materials; (ii) increased demand for fuel and steel; (iii) increased demand for drilling and completion services coupled with a limited number of available service providers, resulting in increased competition for such services among EOG and other companies in its industry; (iv) labor shortages; and (v) other factors, including the ongoing conflict between Russia and the Ukraine which began in late February 2022. 33 Such inflationary pressures on EOG's operating and capital costs have, in turn, impacted its cash flows and results of operations. However, by virtue of its continued focus on increasing its drilling, completion and operating efficiencies and improving the performance of its wells, as well as the flexibility provided by its multi-basin drilling portfolio, EOG has been able to largely offset such impacts.  EOG currently expects such inflationary pressures to result in an increase of approximately 10 percent in its fiscal year 2023 well costs (i.e., its costs for drilling, completions and well-site facilities) versus fiscal year 2022.  Accordingly, such expected increase in EOG's fiscal year 2023 well costs is not expected to have a material impact on EOG's full-year 2023 results of operations.  Further, such inflationary pressures and the factors contributing to such inflationary pressures (described above) are not expected to impact EOG's liquidity, capital resources, cash requirements or financial position or its ability to conduct its day-to-day drilling, completion and production operations. The initiatives EOG has undertaken (and continues to undertake) to increase its drilling, completion and operating efficiencies and improve the performance of its wells and, in turn, partially mitigate such inflationary pressures, include (among others): (i) EOG's downhole drilling motor program, which has resulted in increased footage drilled per day and, in turn, reduced drilling times; (ii) enhanced techniques for completing its wells, which has resulted in increased footage completed per day and pumping hours per day; and (iii) EOG's self-sourced sand program, which has resulted in continued costs savings for the sand utilized in its well completion operations. In addition, EOG enters into agreements with its service providers from time to time, when available and advantageous, to secure the costs and availability of certain of the drilling and completion services it utilizes as part of its operations. EOG plans to continue with these initiatives and actions, though there can be no assurance that such efforts will offset, largely or at all, the impacts of any future inflationary pressures on EOG's operating and capital costs, cash flows and results of operations. Further, there can be no assurance that the factors contributing to any future inflationary pressures will not impact EOG's ability to conduct its future day-to-day drilling, completion and production operations.  See ITEM 1A, Risk Factors, for related discussion. Climate Change .  For a discussion of climate change matters and related regulatory matters, including potential developments related to climate change and the potential impacts and risks of such developments on EOG, see ITEM 1A, Risk Factors, and the related discussion in ITEM 1, Business – Regulation.  EOG will continue to monitor and assess any climate change-related developments that could impact EOG and the oil and gas industry, to determine the impact on its business and operations, and take appropriate actions where necessary. Operations Several important developments have occurred since January 1, 2022. United States. EOG's efforts to identify plays with large reserve potential have proven to be successful.  EOG continues to drill numerous wells in large acreage plays, which in the aggregate have contributed substantially to, and are expected to continue to contribute substantially to, EOG's crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas production.  EOG has placed an emphasis on applying its horizontal drilling and completion expertise to unconventional crude oil and natural gas plays. In 2022, EOG continued to focus on increasing drilling, completion and operating efficiencies, to improve well performance and, as is further discussed above, to partially mitigate inflationary pressures on its operating and capital costs. In addition, EOG continued to evaluate certain potential crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas exploration and development prospects and to look for opportunities to add drilling inventory through leasehold acquisitions, farm-ins, exchanges or tactical or bolt-on acquisitions. On a volumetric basis, as calculated using a ratio of 1.0 barrel of crude oil and condensate or NGLs to 6.0 thousand cubic feet of natural gas, crude oil and condensate and NGLs production accounted for approximately 75% of EOG's United States production during both 2022 and 2021. During 2022, EOG's drilling and completion activities occurred primarily in the Delaware Basin play, Eagle Ford play and Rocky Mountain area. EOG's major producing areas in the United States are in New Mexico and Texas.  See ITEM 1, Business - Exploration and Production for further discussion regarding EOG's 2022 United States operations. 34 Trinidad. In the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago (Trinidad), EOG continues to deliver natural gas under existing supply contracts. Several fields in the South East Coast Consortium Block, Modified U(a) Block, Block 4(a), Modified U(b) Block, the Banyan Field and the Sercan Area have been developed and are producing natural gas which is sold to the National Gas Company of Trinidad and Tobago Limited and its subsidiary (NGC), and crude oil and condensate which is sold to Heritage Petroleum Company Limited (Heritage), with the exception of the Modified U(b) Block in which the company ceased to have an interest in the production of natural gas and crude oil and condensate in the fourth quarter of 2022.  In July 2022, EOG amended the natural gas sales contract with NGC to extend the term and provide for an increase in price realizations if index prices for certain commodities exceed specified levels.  The pricing component of this amendment was effective September 2020. In March 2021, EOG signed a farmout agreement with Heritage, which allows EOG to earn a 65% working interest in a portion of the contract area (EOG Area) governed by the Trinidad Northern Area License.  The EOG Area is located offshore the southwest coast of Trinidad.  In 2022, EOG drilled one net exploratory well, which was determined to be unsuccessful. Also in 2022, EOG completed the design, fabrication and installation of a platform and related facilities for its previously announced discovery in the Modified U(a) Block.  Additionally in 2022, EOG completed the drilling of, and put on production, two net exploratory wells from a pre-existing platform in the Modified U(a) Block.  In 2023, EOG expects to complete three developmental and two exploratory wells in the Modified U(a) Block.  Additionally, EOG expects to make progress on the design and construction of a platform and related facilities in the Mento Area. Other International. In November 2021, a subsidiary of EOG was granted an exploration permit for the WA-488-P Block, located offshore Western Australia.  In 2022, EOG continued preparing for the drilling of an exploration well, the timing of which will depend on obtaining regulatory approvals and subsequent equipment availability. EOG continues to evaluate other select crude oil and natural gas opportunities outside the United States, primarily by pursuing exploitation opportunities in countries where indigenous crude oil and natural gas reserves have been identified. Capital Structure One of management's key strategies is to maintain a strong balance sheet with a consistently below average debt-to-total capitalization ratio as compared to those in EOG's peer group.  EOG's debt-to-total capitalization ratio was 17% at December 31, 2022 and 19% at December 31, 2021.  As used in this calculation, total capitalization represents the sum of total current and long-term debt and total stockholders' equity. During 2022, EOG funded $5.3 billion ($153 million of which was non-cash) in exploration and development and other property, plant and equipment expenditures (excluding asset retirement obligations) and paid $5.1 billion in dividends to common stockholders, primarily by utilizing net cash provided from its operating activities. Total anticipated 2023 capital expenditures are estimated to range from approximately $5.8 billion to $6.2 billion, excluding acquisitions, non-cash transactions and exploration costs.  The majority of 2023 expenditures will be focused on United States crude oil drilling activities.  EOG has significant flexibility with respect to financing alternatives, including borrowings under its commercial paper program, bank borrowings, borrowings under its senior unsecured revolving credit facility, joint development agreements and similar agreements and equity and debt offerings. Management continues to believe EOG has one of the strongest prospect inventories in EOG's history.  When it fits EOG's strategy, EOG will make acquisitions that bolster existing drilling programs or offer incremental exploration and/or production opportunities. Cash Return Framework. On May 5, 2022, EOG announced the addition of quantitative guidance to its cash return framework - specifically, a commitment to return a minimum of 60% of annual net cash provided by operating activities before certain balance sheet-related changes, less total capital expenditures, to stockholders, through a combination of quarterly dividends, special dividends and share repurchases.  For related discussion regarding our payment of dividends, see ITEM 1A, Risk Factors, and ITEM 5, Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities, of EOG's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022, filed on February 23, 2023 (EOG's 2022 Annual Report). 35 Dividend Declarations. On February 24, 2022, EOG's Board of Directors (Board) declared a quarterly cash dividend on the common stock of $0.75 per share paid on April 29, 2022, to stockholders of record as of April 15, 2022.  The Board also declared on such date a special dividend of $1.00 per share paid on March 29, 2022, to stockholders of record as of March 15, 2022. On May 5, 2022, the Board declared a quarterly cash dividend on the common stock of $0.75 per share paid on July 29, 2022, to stockholders of record as of July 15, 2022.  The Board also declared on such date a special dividend of $1.80 per share paid on June 30, 2022, to stockholders of record as of June 15, 2022. On August 4, 2022, the Board declared a special dividend on the common stock of $1.50 per share paid on September 29, 2022, to stockholders of record as of September 15, 2022. On September 29, 2022, the Board declared a quarterly cash dividend on the common stock of $0.75 per share paid on October 31, 2022, to stockholders of record as of October 17, 2022. On November 3, 2022, the Board (i) increased the quarterly cash dividend on the common stock from the previous $0.75 per share to $0.825 per share, effective beginning with the dividend paid on January 31, 2023, to stockholders of record as of January 17, 2023, and (ii) declared a special cash dividend on the common stock of $1.50 per share, paid on December 30, 2022, to stockholders of record as of December 15, 2022. On February 23, 2023, the Board declared a quarterly cash dividend on the common stock of $0.825 per share to be paid on April 28, 2023, to stockholders of record as of April 14, 2023.  The Board also declared on such date a special dividend on the common stock of $1.00 per share to be paid on March 30, 2023, to stockholders of record as of March 16, 2023. Results of Operations The following review of operations for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2022, should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements of EOG and notes thereto beginning on page F-1. Operating Revenues and Other During 2022, operating revenues increased $7,060 million, or 38%, to $25,702 million from $18,642 million in 2021.  Total wellhead revenues, which are revenues generated from sales of EOG's production of crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas, increased $7,415 million, or 48%, to $22,796 million in 2022 from $15,381 million in 2021.  Revenues from the sales of crude oil and condensate and NGLs in 2022 were approximately 83% of total wellhead revenues compared to 84% in 2021.  During 2022, EOG recognized net losses on the mark-to-market of financial commodity derivative contracts of $3,982 million compared to net losses of $1,152 million in 2021.  Gathering, processing and marketing revenues increased $2,408 million during 2022, to $6,696 million from $4,288 million in 2021.  EOG recognized net gains on asset dispositions of $74 million in 2022 compared to net gains on asset dispositions of $17 million in 2021. 36 Wellhead volume and price statistics for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 were as follows: (1)    Thousand barrels per day or million cubic feet per day, as applicable. (2) Other International includes EOG's China and Canada operations.  The China operations were sold in the second quarter of 2021. (3) Dollars per barrel or per thousand cubic feet, as applicable.  Excludes the impact of financial commodity derivative instruments (see Note 12 to Consolidated Financial Statements). (4) Thousand barrels of oil equivalent per day or million barrels of oil equivalent, as applicable; includes crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas.  Crude oil equivalent volumes are determined using a ratio of 1.0 barrel of crude oil and condensate or NGLs to 6.0 thousand cubic feet of natural gas.  MMBoe is calculated by multiplying the MBoed amount by the number of days in the period and then dividing that amount by one thousand. (5) Includes positive revenue adjustment of $0.76 per Mcf ($0.09 per Mcf of EOG's composite wellhead natural gas price) for the twelve months ended December 31, 2022, related to a price adjustment per a provision of the natural gas sales contact with NGC amended in July 2022 for natural gas sales during the period from September 2020 through June 2022. 37 2022 compared to 2021. Wellhead crude oil and condensate revenues in 2022 increased $5,242 million, or 47%, to $16,367 million from $11,125 million in 2021, due primarily to a higher composite average wellhead crude oil and condensate price ($4,831 million) and an increase in production ($411 million).  EOG's composite wellhead crude oil and condensate price for 2022 increased 42% to $97.21 per barrel compared to $68.50 per barrel in 2021.  Wellhead crude oil and condensate production in 2022 increased 4% to 461 MBbld as compared to 445 MBbld in 2021.  The increased production was primarily in the Permian Basin, partially offset by decreased production in the Eagle Ford play and the Rocky Mountain area. NGLs revenues in 2022 increased $836 million, or 46%, to $2,648 million from $1,812 million in 2021 primarily due to an increase in production ($666 million) and a higher composite average wellhead NGLs price ($170 million).  EOG's composite average wellhead NGLs price increased 7% to $36.70 per barrel in 2022 compared to $34.35 per barrel in 2021.  NGLs production in 2022 increased 37% to 198 MBbld as compared to 145 MBbld in 2021.  The increased production was primarily in the Permian Basin. Wellhead natural gas revenues in 2022 increased $1,337 million, or 55%, to $3,781 million from $2,444 million in 2021, primarily due to a higher composite wellhead natural gas price ($1,234 million) and an increase in natural gas deliveries ($103 million).  EOG's composite average wellhead natural gas price increased 49% to $6.93 per Mcf in 2022 compared to $4.66 per Mcf in 2021.  Natural gas deliveries in 2022 increased 4% to 1,495 MMcfd as compared to 1,436 MMcfd in 2021.  The increase in production was primarily due to increased production of associated natural gas from the Permian Basin and higher deliveries in the Dorado gas play, partially offset by lower natural gas volumes due to the sale of certain legacy natural gas assets in the Rocky Mountain area in the first quarter of 2022, lower natural gas volumes in Trinidad and decreased production of associated natural gas from the Eagle Ford play. During 2022, EOG recognized net losses on the mark-to-market of financial commodity derivative contracts of $3,982 million, which included net cash paid for settlements of crude oil, NGLs and natural gas financial derivative contracts of $3,501 million.  During 2021, EOG recognized net losses on the mark-to-market of financial commodity derivative contracts of $1,152 million, which included net cash paid for settlements of crude oil, NGLs and natural gas financial derivative contracts of $638 million. Gathering, processing and marketing revenues are revenues generated from sales of third-party crude oil, NGLs and natural gas, as well as fees associated with gathering third-party natural gas and revenues from sales of EOG-owned sand.  Purchases and sales of third-party crude oil and natural gas may be utilized in order to balance firm capacity at third-party facilities with production in certain areas and to utilize excess capacity at EOG-owned facilities.  EOG sells sand primarily in order to balance the timing of firm purchase agreements with completion operations.  Marketing costs represent the costs to purchase third-party crude oil, natural gas and sand and the associated transportation costs, as well as costs associated with EOG-owned sand sold to third parties. Gathering, processing and marketing revenues less marketing costs in 2022 increased $46 million compared to 2021, primarily due to higher margins on natural gas marketing activities, partially offset by lower margins on crude oil and condensate marketing activities. 2021 compared to 2020. Wellhead crude oil and condensate revenues in 2021 increased $5,339 million, or 92%, to $11,125 million from $5,786 million in 2020, due primarily to a higher composite average wellhead crude oil and condensate price ($4,852 million) and an increase in production ($487 million). EOG's composite wellhead crude oil and condensate price for 2021 increased 77% to $68.50 per barrel compared to $38.63 per barrel in 2020.  Wellhead crude oil and condensate production in 2021 increased 9% to 445 MBbld as compared to 409 MBbld in 2020.  The increased production was primarily in the Permian Basin, partially offset by decreased production in the Eagle Ford play. NGLs revenues in 2021 increased $1,144 million, or 171%, to $1,812 million from $668 million in 2020 primarily due to a higher composite average wellhead NGLs price ($1,104 million) and an increase in production ($40 million).  EOG's composite average wellhead NGLs price increased 156% to $34.35 per barrel in 2021 compared to $13.41 per barrel in 2020.  NGLs production in 2021 increased 6% to 145 MBbld as compared to 136 MBbld in 2020.  The increased production was primarily in the Permian Basin. 38 Wellhead natural gas revenues in 2021 increased $1,607 million, or 192%, to $2,444 million from $837 million in 2020, primarily due to a higher composite wellhead natural gas price ($1,486 million) and an increase in natural gas deliveries ($121 million).  EOG's composite average wellhead natural gas price increased 155% to $4.66 per Mcf in 2021 compared to $1.83 per Mcf in 2020.  Natural gas deliveries in 2021 increased 15% to 1,436 MMcfd as compared to 1,252 MMcfd in 2020.  The increase in production was primarily due to increased production of associated natural gas from the Permian Basin and higher natural gas volumes in Trinidad, partially offset by lower natural gas volumes associated with the dispositions of the Marcellus Shale assets in the third quarter of 2020 and the China assets in the second quarter of 2021. During 2021, EOG recognized net losses on the mark-to-market of financial commodity derivative contracts of $1,152 million, which included net cash paid for settlements of crude oil, NGLs and natural gas financial derivative contracts of $638 million.  During 2020, EOG recognized net gains on the mark-to-market of financial commodity derivative contracts of $1,145 million, which included net cash received from settlements of crude oil, NGLs and natural gas financial derivative contracts of $1,071 million. Gathering, processing and marketing revenues less marketing costs in 2021 increased $230 million compared to 2020, primarily due to higher margins on crude oil and condensate and natural gas marketing activities.  The margin on crude oil marketing activities in 2020 was negatively impacted by the price decline for crude oil in inventory awaiting delivery to customers and EOG's decision early in the second quarter of 2020 to reduce commodity price volatility by selling May and June 2020 deliveries under fixed price arrangements. Operating and Other Expenses 2022 compared to 2021 .  During 2022, operating expenses of $15,736 million were $3,196 million higher than the $12,540 million incurred during 2021. The following table presents the costs per barrel of oil equivalent (Boe) for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021: (1) Total excludes exploration costs, dry hole costs, impairments, marketing costs and taxes other than income. The primary factors impacting the cost components of per-unit rates of lease and well, transportation costs, gathering and processing costs, DD&A and G&A for 2022 compared to 2021 are set forth below.  See "Operating Revenues and Other" above for a discussion of production volumes. 39 Lease and well expenses include expenses for EOG-operated properties, as well as expenses billed to EOG from other operators where EOG is not the operator of a property.  Lease and well expenses can be divided into the following categories: costs to operate and maintain crude oil and natural gas wells, the cost of workovers and lease and well administrative expenses.  Operating and maintenance costs include, among other things, pumping services, produced water disposal, equipment repair and maintenance, compression expense, lease upkeep and fuel and power.  Workovers are operations to restore or maintain production from existing wells. Each of these categories of costs individually fluctuates from time to time as EOG attempts to maintain and increase production while maintaining efficient, safe and environmentally responsible operations.  EOG continues to increase its operating activities by drilling new wells in existing and new areas.  Operating and maintenance costs within these existing and new areas, as well as the costs of services charged to EOG by vendors, fluctuate over time. Lease and well expenses of $1,331 million in 2022 increased $196 million from $1,135 million in 2021 primarily due to higher operating and maintenance costs in the United States ($172 million) and higher workovers expenditures in the United States ($27 million).  Lease and well expenses increased in the United States primarily due to increased operating activities resulting from increased production. Transportation costs represent costs associated with the delivery of hydrocarbon products from the lease or an aggregation point on EOG's gathering system to a downstream point of sale.  Transportation costs include transportation fees, storage and terminal fees, the cost of compression (the cost of compressing natural gas to meet pipeline pressure requirements), the cost of dehydration (the cost associated with removing water from natural gas to meet pipeline requirements), gathering fees and fuel costs. Transportation costs of $966 million in 2022 increased $103 million from $863 million in 2021 primarily due to increased transportation costs related to production from the Permian Basin ($98 million), the Eagle Ford play ($10 million) and the Dorado gas play ($7 million), partially offset by decreased transportation costs related to production from the Rocky Mountain area ($8 million). Gathering and processing costs represent operating and maintenance expenses and administrative expenses associated with operating EOG's gathering and processing assets as well as natural gas processing fees and certain NGLs fractionation fees paid to third parties.  EOG pays third parties to process the majority of its natural gas production to extract NGLs. Gathering and processing costs increased $62 million to $621 million in 2022 compared to $559 million in 2021 primarily due to increased gathering and processing fees related to production from the Permian Basin ($66 million) and increased operating and maintenance expenses related to production from the Permian Basin ($43 million) and the Eagle Ford play ($7 million), partially offset by decreased gathering and processing fees related to production from the Eagle Ford play ($30 million) and due to the sale of certain legacy natural gas assets in the Rocky Mountain area in the first quarter of 2022 ($28 million). DD&A of the cost of proved oil and gas properties is calculated using the unit-of-production method.  EOG's DD&A rate and expense are the composite of numerous individual DD&A group calculations.  There are several factors that can impact EOG's composite DD&A rate and expense, such as field production profiles, drilling or acquisition of new wells, disposition of existing wells and reserve revisions (upward or downward) primarily related to well performance, economic factors and impairments.  Changes to these factors may cause EOG's composite DD&A rate and expense to fluctuate from period to period.  DD&A of the cost of other property, plant and equipment is generally calculated using the straight-line depreciation method over the useful lives of the assets. DD&A expenses in 2022 decreased $109 million to $3,542 million from $3,651 million in 2021.  DD&A expenses associated with oil and gas properties in 2022 were $117 million lower than in 2021 primarily due to lower unit rates in the United States ($472 million) and lower production in Trinidad ($15 million), partially offset by an increase in production in the United States ($375 million).  Unit rates in the United States decreased primarily due to upward reserve revisions related to higher average crude oil, NGLs and natural gas prices used in the prior year's reserve estimation process and to reserves added at lower costs as a result of increased efficiencies. G&A expenses of $570 million in 2022 increased $59 million from $511 million in 2021 primarily due to a net increase in costs associated with corporate support activities, including employee-related expenses, and professional and other services. 40 Impairments include: amortization of unproved oil and gas property costs as well as impairments of proved oil and gas properties; other property, plant and equipment; and other assets.  Unproved properties with acquisition costs that are not individually significant are aggregated, and the portion of such costs estimated to be nonproductive is amortized over the remaining lease term.  Unproved properties with individually significant acquisition costs are reviewed individually for impairment.  When circumstances indicate that a proved property may be impaired, EOG compares expected undiscounted future cash flows at a DD&A group level to the unamortized capitalized cost of the group.  If the expected undiscounted future cash flows, based on EOG's estimates of (and assumptions regarding) future crude oil, NGLs and natural gas prices, operating costs, development expenditures, anticipated production from proved reserves and other relevant data, are lower than the unamortized capitalized cost, the capitalized cost is reduced to fair value.  Fair value is generally calculated by using the Income Approach described in the Fair Value Measurement Topic of the Financial Accounting Standards Board's Accounting Standards Codification (ASC).  In certain instances, EOG utilizes accepted offers from third-party purchasers as the basis for determining fair value. The following table represents impairments for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 (in millions): Impairments of unproved oil and gas properties included charges of $38 million in 2021 due to the decision in the fourth quarter of 2021 to exit Block 36 and Block 49 in Oman. Taxes other than income include severance/production taxes, ad valorem/property taxes, payroll taxes, franchise taxes and other miscellaneous taxes.  Severance/production taxes are generally determined based on wellhead revenues, and ad valorem/property taxes are generally determined based on the valuation of the underlying assets. Taxes other than income in 2022 increased $538 million to $1,585 million (7.0% of wellhead revenues) from $1,047 million (6.8% of wellhead revenues) in 2021.  The increase in taxes other than income was primarily due to increased severance/production taxes ($514 million), increased ad valorem/property taxes ($130 million) and increased payroll taxes ($7 million), partially offset by increased state severance tax refunds ($119 million), all in the United States. Other income, net, was $114 million in 2022 compared to other income, net, of $9 million in 2021. The increase of $105 million in 2022 was primarily due to an increase in interest income ($81 million) and higher equity income from ammonia plants in Trinidad ($28 million). EOG recognized an income tax provision of $2,142 million in 2022 compared to an income tax provision of $1,269 million in 2021, primarily due to increased pretax income.  The net effective tax rate for 2022 increased to 22% from 21% in 2021. 41 2021 compared to 2020 .  During 2021, operating expenses of $12,540 million were $964 million lower than the $11,576 million incurred during 2020. The following table presents the costs per Boe for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020: (1) Total excludes exploration costs, dry hole costs, impairments, marketing costs and taxes other than income. The primary factors impacting the cost components of per-unit rates of lease and well, transportation costs, gathering and processing costs, DD&A, G&A and net interest expense for 2021 compared to 2020 are set forth below.  See "Operating Revenues and Other" above for a discussion of production volumes. Lease and well expenses of $1,135 million in 2021 increased $72 million from $1,063 million in 2020 primarily due to higher operating and maintenance costs in the United States ($33 million) and in Trinidad ($5 million), higher workovers expenditures in the United States ($25 million) and higher lease and well administrative expenses in the United States ($12 million); partially offset by lower operating and maintenance costs in Canada ($6 million) and as a result of the disposition of all of the China assets in the second quarter of 2021 ($5 million).  Lease and well expenses increased in the United States primarily due to increased operating activities resulting from increased production. Transportation costs of $863 million in 2021 increased $128 million from $735 million in 2020 primarily due to increased transportation costs in the Permian Basin ($121 million) and the Rocky Mountain area ($22 million), partially offset by decreased transportation costs in the Eagle Ford play ($13 million). Gathering and processing costs increased $100 million to $559 million in 2021 compared to $459 million in 2020 primarily due to increased gathering and processing fees related to production from the Permian Basin ($51 million) and the Rocky Mountain area ($10 million), increased operating costs in the Permian Basin ($26 million) and the Rocky Mountain area ($7 million) and increased administrative expenses in the United States ($15 million); partially offset by decreased gathering and processing fees in the Eagle Ford play ($5 million). DD&A expenses in 2021 increased $251 million to $3,651 million from $3,400 million in 2020.  DD&A expenses associated with oil and gas properties in 2021 were $235 million higher than in 2020 primarily due to an increase in production in the United States ($307 million) and Trinidad ($12 million) and higher unit rates in Trinidad ($14 million), partially offset by lower unit rates in the United States ($85 million).  Unit rates in the United States decreased primarily due to upward reserve revisions and reserves added at lower costs as a result of increased efficiencies.  DD&A expenses associated with other property, plant and equipment in 2021 were $15 million higher than in 2020 primarily due to an increase in expense related to storage assets. G&A expenses of $511 million in 2021 increased $27 million from $484 million in 2020 primarily due to a net increase in costs associated with corporate support activities, including employee-related expenses and increased information system costs ($54 million); partially offset by a decrease in idle equipment and termination fees ($46 million). 42 Net interest expense of $178 million in 2021 was $27 million lower than 2020 primarily due to repayment in February 2021 of the $750 million aggregate principal amount of 4.100% Senior Notes due 2021 ($29 million), repayment in June 2020 of the $500 million aggregate principal amount of 4.40% Senior Notes due 2020 ($9 million),  repayment in April 2020 of the $500 million aggregate principal amount of 2.45% Senior Notes due 2020 ($3 million) and lower interest payments for late royalty payments on Oklahoma properties ($6 million), partially offset by the issuance in April 2020 of the $750 million aggregate principal amount of 4.950% Senior Notes due 2050 ($11 million) and $750 million aggregate principal amount of 4.375% Senior Notes due 2030 ($10 million). Exploration costs of $154 million in 2021 increased $8 million from $146 million in 2020 primarily due to increased geological and geophysical expenditures in the United States. The following table represents impairments for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020 (in millions): Impairments of proved properties in 2020 were primarily due to the decline in commodity prices and were primarily related to the write-down to fair value of legacy and non-core natural gas, crude oil and combo plays in the United States.  Impairments of unproved oil and gas properties included charges of $38 million in 2021 due to the decision in the fourth quarter of 2021 to exit Block 36 and Block 49 in Oman and $252 million in 2020 for certain leasehold costs that are no longer expected to be developed before expiration.  Impairments of other assets in 2020 were primarily for the write-down to fair value of sand and crude-by-rail assets and a commodity price-related write-down of other assets.  Impairments of firm commitment contracts in 2020 were a result of the decision to exit the Horn River Basin in Canada. Taxes other than income in 2021 increased $569 million to $1,047 million (6.8% of wellhead revenues) from $478 million (6.6% of wellhead revenues) in 2020.  The increase in taxes other than income was primarily due to increased severance/production taxes in the United States ($522 million), increased severance/production taxes in Trinidad ($7 million) and decreased state severance tax refunds ($39 million). EOG recognized an income tax provision of $1,269 million in 2021 compared to an income tax benefit of $134 million in 2020, primarily due to increased pretax income.  The net effective tax rate for 2021 increased to 21% from 18% in 2020.  The higher effective tax rate is mostly due to taxes attributable to EOG's foreign operations and stock-based compensation tax deficiencies increasing the effective tax rate on pretax income in 2021 and decreasing the effective tax rate on pretax loss in 2020. 43 Capital Resources and Liquidity Cash Flow The primary sources of cash for EOG during the three-year period ended December 31, 2022, were funds generated from operations and proceeds from asset sales.  The primary uses of cash were funds used in operations; exploration and development expenditures; dividend payments to stockholders; net repayment of debt; net cash paid for settlements of financial commodity derivative contracts; other property, plant and equipment expenditures; and net collateral posted for financial commodity derivative contracts. 2022 compared to 2021. Net cash provided by operating activities of $11,093 million in 2022 increased $2,302 million from $8,791 million in 2021 primarily due to an increase in wellhead revenues ($7,415 million), partially offset by an increase in net cash paid for settlements of financial commodity derivative contracts ($2,863 million); an increase in net cash paid for income taxes ($1,361 million); and an increase in cash operating expenses ($982 million). Net cash used in investing activities of $5,056 million in 2022 increased by $1,637 million from $3,419 million in 2021 primarily due to an increase in additions to oil and gas properties ($981 million), net cash used in working capital associated with investing activities in 2022 ($375 million) compared to net cash provided by working capital associated with investing activities in 2021 ($200 million); an increase in additions to other property, plant and equipment ($169 million); and an increase in other investing activities ($30 million), partially offset by an increase in proceeds from the sales of assets ($118 million). Net cash used in financing activities of $5,273 million in 2022 included cash dividend payments ($5,148 million), purchases of treasury stock in connection with stock compensation plans ($118 million) and repayment of finance lease liabilities ($35 million).  Cash provided by financing activities in 2022 included proceeds from stock options exercised and employee stock purchase plan activity ($28 million). 2021 compared to 2020. Net cash provided by operating activities of $8,791 million in 2021 increased $3,783 million from $5,008 million in 2020 primarily due to an increase in wellhead revenues ($8,090 million) and an increase in gathering, processing and marketing revenues less marketing costs ($230 million); partially offset by an increase in net cash paid for settlements of financial commodity derivative contracts ($1,709 million); an increase in net cash paid for income taxes ($1,320 million); net cash used in working capital in 2021 ($817 million) compared to net cash provided by working capital in 2020 ($193 million); and an increase in cash operating expenses ($882 million). Net cash used in investing activities of $3,419 million in 2021 increased by $71 million from $3,348 million in 2020 primarily due to an increase in additions to oil and gas properties ($394 million), partially offset by net cash provided by working capital associated with investing activities in 2021 ($200 million) compared to net cash used in working capital associated with investing activities in 2020 ($75 million); an increase in proceeds from the sales of assets ($39 million); and a decrease in additions to other property, plant and equipment ($9 million). Net cash used in financing activities of $3,493 million in 2021 included cash dividend payments ($2,684 million), repayments of long-term debt ($750 million), purchases of treasury stock in connection with stock compensation plans ($41 million) and repayment of finance lease liabilities ($37 million).  Cash provided by financing activities in 2021 included proceeds from stock options exercised and employee stock purchase plan activity ($19 million). 44 Total Expenditures The table below sets out components of total expenditures for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020 (in millions): (1) Leasehold acquisitions included $127 million, $45 million and $197 million related to non-cash property exchanges in 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. (2) Property acquisitions included $26 million, $5 million and $15 million related to non-cash property exchanges in 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. (3) Other property, plant and equipment included non-cash additions of $74 million and $174 million, primarily related to finance lease transactions for storage facilities in 2021 and 2020, respectively. Exploration and development expenditures of $4,931 million for 2022 were $1,089 million higher than the prior year.   The increase was primarily due to increased exploration and development drilling expenditures in the United States ($763 million) and increased property acquisitions ($319 million).  The 2022 exploration and development expenditures of $4,931 million included $3,962 million in development drilling and facilities, $514 million in exploration, $419 million in property acquisitions and $36 million in capitalized interest.  The 2021 exploration and development expenditures of $3,842 million included $3,172 million in development drilling and facilities, $537 million in exploration, $100 million in property acquisitions and $33 million in capitalized interest. The 2020 exploration and development expenditures of $3,601 million included $2,905 million in development drilling and facilities, $530 million in exploration, $135 million in property acquisitions and $31 million in capitalized interest. The level of exploration and development expenditures, including acquisitions, will vary in future periods depending on energy market conditions and other economic factors.  EOG believes it has significant flexibility and availability with respect to financing alternatives and the ability to adjust its exploration and development expenditure budget as circumstances warrant.  While EOG has certain continuing commitments associated with expenditure plans related to its operations, such commitments are not expected to be material when considered in relation to the total financial capacity of EOG. 45 Financial Commodity Derivative Transactions Presented below is a comprehensive summary of EOG's financial commodity derivative contracts settled during the year ended December 31, 2022 (closed) and remaining for 2023 and thereafter, as of February 16, 2023.  Crude oil volumes are presented in MBbld and prices are presented in $/Bbl.  Natural gas volumes are presented in MMBtu per day (MMBtud) and prices are presented in dollars per MMBtu ($/MMBtu). _________________ (1)    In the second quarter of 2022, EOG executed the early termination provision granting EOG the right to terminate certain of its October 2022 - December 2023 crude oil financial price swap contracts which were open at that time.  EOG paid net cash of $593 million for the settlement of these contracts. (2)    In the third quarter of 2022, EOG executed the early termination provision granting EOG the right to terminate certain of its January 2023 - March 2023 crude oil financial price swap contracts which were open at that time.  EOG paid net cash of $63 million for the settlement of these contracts. _________________ (1)    This settlement index is used to fix the differential in pricing between the NYMEX calendar month average and the physical crude oil delivery month. 46 _________________ (1)    In the second quarter of 2022, EOG executed the early termination provision granting EOG the right to terminate certain of its October 2022 - December 2023 natural gas financial price swap contracts which were open at that time.  EOG paid net cash of $735 million for the settlement of these contracts. _________________ (1)    This settlement index is used to fix the differential between pricing at the Houston Ship Channel and NYMEX Henry Hub prices. 47 Financing EOG's debt-to-total capitalization ratio was 17% at December 31, 2022, compared to 19% at December 31, 2021.  As used in this calculation, total capitalization represents the sum of total current and long-term debt and total stockholders' equity. At both December 31, 2022 and 2021, EOG had outstanding $4,890 million aggregate principal amount of senior notes which had estimated fair values of $4,740 million and $5,577 million, respectively.  The estimated fair value of debt was based upon quoted market prices and, where such prices were not available, other observable inputs regarding interest rates available to EOG at year-end.  EOG's debt is at fixed interest rates.  While changes in interest rates affect the fair value of EOG's senior notes, such changes do not expose EOG to material fluctuations in earnings or cash flow. During 2022, EOG funded its capital program and operations primarily by utilizing cash provided by operating activities and cash on hand.  While EOG maintains a $2.0 billion revolving credit facility to back its commercial paper program, there were no borrowings outstanding at any time during 2022 and the amount outstanding at year-end was zero.  EOG considers the availability of its $2.0 billion senior unsecured revolving credit facility, as described in Note 2 to Consolidated Financial Statements, to be sufficient to meet its ongoing operating needs. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk During 2022, EOG was exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk inherent in its operations in foreign countries, including Trinidad, Australia, Oman and Canada.  EOG continues to monitor the foreign currency exchange rates of countries in which it is currently conducting business and may implement measures to protect against foreign currency exchange rate risk. Outlook Pricing. Crude oil, NGLs and natural gas prices have been volatile, and this volatility is expected to continue.  As a result of the many uncertainties associated with the world economic and political environment, worldwide supplies of, and demand for, crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas, the availabilities of other energy supplies and the relative competitive relationships of the various energy sources in the view of consumers, EOG is unable to predict what changes may occur in crude oil and condensate, NGLs, natural gas, ammonia and methanol prices in the future.  The market price of crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas in 2023 will impact the amount of cash generated from EOG's operating activities, which will in turn impact EOG's financial position.  As of February 16, 2023, the average 2023 NYMEX crude oil and natural gas prices were $75.99 per barrel and $3.05 per MMBtu, respectively, representing a decrease of 19% for crude oil and a decrease of 54% for natural gas from the average NYMEX prices in 2022.  See ITEM 1A, Risk Factors for additional discussion of the impact of commodity prices (including fluctuations in commodity prices) on our financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Including the impact of EOG's crude oil and NGLs financial derivative contracts (exclusive of basis swaps) and based on EOG's tax position, EOG's price sensitivity in 2023 for each $1.00 per barrel increase or decrease in wellhead crude oil and condensate price, combined with the estimated change in NGLs price, is approximately $137 million for net income and $175 million for pretax cash flows from operating activities.  Including the impact of EOG's natural gas financial derivative contracts and based on EOG's tax position and the portion of EOG's anticipated natural gas volumes for 2023 for which prices have not been determined under long-term marketing contracts, EOG's price sensitivity for each $0.10 per Mcf increase or decrease in wellhead natural gas price is approximately $35 million for net income and $44 million for pretax cash flows from operating activities.  For information regarding EOG's crude oil, NGLs and natural gas financial commodity derivative contracts through February 16, 2023, see "Financial Commodity Derivative Transactions" above. Capital. EOG plans to continue to focus a substantial portion of its exploration and development expenditures in its major producing areas in the United States.  In particular, EOG will be focused on United States drilling activity in its Delaware Basin, Eagle Ford play, Rocky Mountain area and Dorado gas play where it generates its highest rates-of-return.  To further enhance the economics of these plays, EOG expects to continue to improve well performance and lessen inflationary pressure through efficiency gains and by locking in certain service costs for drilling and completion activities.  In addition, EOG expects to spend a portion of its anticipated 2023 capital expenditures on leasing acreage, evaluating new prospects, gathering and processing infrastructure, transportation infrastructure and environmental projects. 48 The total anticipated 2023 capital expenditures of approximately $5.8 billion to $6.2 billion, excluding acquisitions, non-cash transactions and exploration costs, is structured to maintain EOG's strategy of capital discipline by funding its exploration, development and exploitation activities primarily from available internally generated cash flows and cash on hand.  EOG has significant flexibility with respect to financing alternatives, including borrowings under its commercial paper program, bank borrowings, borrowings under its $2.0 billion senior unsecured revolving credit facility and equity and debt offerings. Operations. In 2023, crude oil and total crude oil equivalent production are expected to increase from 2022 levels.  In 2023, EOG expects to continue to focus on mitigating inflationary pressure on operating costs through efficiency improvements. Cash Requirements. Certain of EOG's capital expenditures and operating expenses are subject to contracts with minimum commitments, including those that meet the definition of a lease under ASC "Leases (Topic 842)".  In 2023, EOG anticipates the following cash requirements under these commitments (in millions): (1)    For more information on contracts that meet the definition of a lease under ASC "Leases (Topic 842)," see Note 18 to Consolidated Financial Statements. (2)    Amounts exclude transportation and storage service commitments that meet the definition of a lease.  Amounts shown are based on current transportation and storage rates and the foreign currency exchange rates used to convert Canadian dollars into United States dollars at December 31, 2022.  Management does not believe that any future changes in these rates before the expiration dates of these commitments will have a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of EOG. (3)    For more information on transportation and storage service commitments and purchase and service obligations, see Note 8 to Consolidated Financial Statements. In 2023, EOG has $1.25 billion of senior notes maturing, which are expected to be repaid with cash on hand.  Additionally, in 2023, EOG expects to pay interest of $175 million on senior notes.  For more information on EOG's current and long-term debt, see Note 2 to Consolidated Financial Statements. Cash requirements to settle the liability for unrecognized tax benefits, EOG's pension and postretirement benefit obligations and the liability for dismantlement, abandonment and asset retirement obligations (see Notes 6, 7, and 15, respectively, to Consolidated Financial Statements) are excluded because they are subject to estimates and the timing of settlement is unknown. EOG expects to fund its exploration, development and exploitation activities and other cash requirements, both in 2023 and in future years, primarily from internally generated cash flows and cash on hand.  As discussed above, EOG has significant flexibility with respect to financing alternatives, including borrowings under its commercial paper program, bank borrowings, borrowings under its $2.0 billion senior unsecured revolving credit facility and equity and debt offerings. 49 Summary of Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates EOG prepares its financial statements and the accompanying notes in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, which require management to make estimates and assumptions about future events that affect the reported amounts in the financial statements and the accompanying notes.  EOG identifies certain accounting policies and estimates as critical based on, among other things, their impact on EOG's financial condition, results of operations or liquidity, and the degree of difficulty, subjectivity and complexity in their application.  Critical accounting policies and estimates cover accounting matters that are inherently uncertain because the future resolution of such matters is unknown.  Management routinely discusses the development, selection and disclosure of each of the critical accounting policies and estimates.  Following is a discussion of EOG's most critical accounting policies and estimates: Proved Oil and Gas Reserves EOG's engineers estimate proved oil and gas reserves in accordance with United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) regulations, which directly impact financial accounting estimates, including depreciation, depletion and amortization and impairments of proved properties and related assets.  Proved reserves represent estimated quantities of crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas that geological and engineering data demonstrate, with reasonable certainty, to be recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under economic and operating conditions existing at the time the estimates were made. The process of estimating quantities of proved oil and gas reserves is complex, requiring significant subjective decisions in the evaluation of available geological, engineering and economic data for each reservoir.  The data for a given reservoir may also change substantially over time as a result of numerous factors including, but not limited to, additional development activity, evolving production history and continual reassessment of the viability of production under varying economic conditions.  Proved reserves are estimated using a trailing 12-month average price, in accordance with SEC rules.  Crude oil, NGLs and natural gas prices have exhibited significant volatility in the past, and EOG expects that volatility to continue in the future.  Consequently, material revisions (upward or downward) to existing reserve estimates may occur from time to time.  For related discussion, see ITEM 1A, Risk Factors, and "Supplemental Information to Consolidated Financial Statements." Oil and Gas Exploration and Development Costs EOG accounts for its crude oil and natural gas exploration and production activities under the successful efforts method of accounting. Costs to develop proved reserves, including the costs of all development wells and related equipment used in the production of crude oil and natural gas, are capitalized. Oil and gas exploration costs, other than the costs of drilling exploratory wells, are expensed as incurred.  The costs of drilling exploratory wells are capitalized pending determination of whether EOG has discovered commercial quantities of proved reserves.  If commercial quantities of proved reserves are not discovered, such drilling costs are expensed.  In some circumstances, it may be uncertain whether commercial quantities of proved reserves have been discovered when drilling has been completed.  Such exploratory well drilling costs may continue to be capitalized if the estimated reserve quantity is sufficient to justify its completion as a producing well and sufficient progress in assessing the reserves and the economic and operating viability of the project is being made.  The concept of sufficient progress is subject to significant judgment and may require further operational actions or require additional approvals from government agencies or partners in oil and gas operations, among other factors, the timing of which may delay management's determinations.  See Note 16 to Consolidated Financial Statements. Depreciation, Depletion and Amortization for Oil and Gas Properties The quantities of estimated proved oil and gas reserves are a significant component of EOG's calculation of depreciation, depletion and amortization expense, and revisions in such estimates may alter the rate of future expense. Holding all other factors constant, if reserves are revised upward or downward, earnings will increase or decrease, respectively. 50 Depreciation, depletion and amortization of the cost of proved oil and gas properties is calculated using the unit-of-production method.  The reserve base used to calculate depreciation, depletion and amortization for leasehold acquisition costs and the cost to acquire proved properties is the sum of proved developed reserves and proved undeveloped reserves.  With respect to lease and well equipment costs, which include development costs and successful exploration drilling costs, the reserve base includes only proved developed reserves. Impairments Oil and gas lease acquisition costs are capitalized when incurred.  Unproved properties with acquisition costs that are not individually significant are aggregated, and the portion of such costs estimated to be nonproductive is amortized over the remaining lease term.  Unproved properties with individually significant acquisition costs are reviewed individually for impairment.  If the unproved properties are determined to be productive, the appropriate related costs are transferred to proved oil and gas properties.  Lease rentals are expensed as incurred. When circumstances indicate that proved oil and gas properties may be impaired, EOG compares expected undiscounted future cash flows at a depreciation, depletion and amortization group level to the unamortized capitalized cost of the group.  If the expected undiscounted future cash flows, based on EOG's estimates of (and assumptions regarding) future crude oil and natural gas prices, operating costs, development expenditures, anticipated production from proved reserves and other relevant data, are lower than the unamortized capitalized cost, the capitalized cost is reduced to fair value.  Fair value is generally calculated using the Income Approach described in the Fair Value Measurement Topic of the ASC.  In certain instances, EOG utilizes accepted offers from third-party purchasers as the basis for determining fair value.  Estimates of undiscounted future cash flows require significant judgment, and the assumptions used in preparing such estimates are inherently uncertain.  In addition, such assumptions and estimates are reasonably likely to change in the future. Crude oil, NGLs and natural gas prices have exhibited significant volatility in the past, and EOG expects that volatility to continue in the future.  During the five years ended December 31, 2022, WTI crude oil spot prices have fluctuated from approximately $(36.98) per barrel to $123.64 per barrel, and Henry Hub natural gas spot prices have ranged from approximately $1.33 per MMBtu to $23.86 per MMBtu.  Market prices for NGLs are influenced by the components extracted, including ethane, propane, butane and natural gasoline, among others, and the respective market pricing for each component. EOG uses the five-year NYMEX futures strip for WTI crude oil and Henry Hub natural gas and the five-year Oil Price Information Services futures strip for NGLs components (in each case as of the applicable balance sheet date) as a basis to estimate future crude oil, NGLs and natural gas prices.  EOG's proved reserves estimates, including the timing of future production, are also subject to significant assumptions and judgment, and are frequently revised (upwards and downwards) as more information becomes available.  In the future, if any combination of crude oil prices, NGLs prices, natural gas prices or estimated proved reserves diverge negatively from EOG's current estimates, impairment charges may be necessary. See Notes 13 and 14 to Consolidated Financial Statements for further disclosures of impairments of oil and gas properties and other assets. Income Taxes Income taxes are accounted for using the asset and liability approach.  Under this approach, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized based on anticipated future tax consequences attributable to differences between financial statement carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their respective tax basis.  EOG assesses the realizability of deferred tax assets and recognizes valuation allowances as appropriate.  Significant assumptions used in estimating future taxable income include future crude oil, NGLs and natural gas prices and levels of capital reinvestment.  Changes in such assumptions or changes in tax laws and regulations could materially affect the recognized amounts of valuation allowances.  See Note 6 to Consolidated Financial Statements. 51 Information Regarding Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  All statements, other than statements of historical facts, including, among others, statements and projections regarding EOG's future financial position, operations, performance, business strategy, goals, returns and rates of return, budgets, reserves, levels of production, capital expenditures, costs and asset sales, statements regarding future commodity prices and statements regarding the plans and objectives of EOG's management for future operations, are forward‐looking statements.  EOG typically uses words such as "expect," "anticipate," "estimate," "project," "strategy," "intend," "plan," "target," "aims," "ambition," "initiative," "goal," "may," "will," "focused on," "should" and "believe" or the negative of those terms or other variations or comparable terminology to identify its forward‐looking statements.  In particular, statements, express or implied, concerning EOG's future financial or operating results and returns or EOG's ability to replace or increase reserves, increase production, generate returns and rates of return, replace or increase drilling locations, reduce or otherwise control drilling, completion and operating costs and capital expenditures, generate cash flows, pay down or refinance indebtedness, achieve, reach or otherwise meet initiatives, plans, goals, ambitions or targets with respect to emissions, other environmental matters, safety matters or other ESG (environmental/social/governance) matters, or pay and/or increase dividends are forward‐looking statements.  Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of performance.  Although EOG believes the expectations reflected in its forward-looking statements are reasonable and are based on reasonable assumptions, no assurance can be given that such assumptions are accurate or will prove to have been correct or that any of such expectations will be achieved (in full or at all) or will be achieved on the expected or anticipated timelines.  Moreover, EOG's forward-looking statements may be affected by known, unknown or currently unforeseen risks, events or circumstances that may be outside EOG's control.  Important factors that could cause EOG's actual results to differ materially from the expectations reflected in EOG's forward-looking statements include, among others: • the timing, extent and duration of changes in prices for, supplies of, and demand for, crude oil and condensate, natural gas liquids (NGLs), natural gas and related commodities; • the extent to which EOG is successful in its efforts to acquire or discover additional reserves; • the extent to which EOG is successful in its efforts to (i) economically develop its acreage in, (ii) produce reserves and achieve anticipated production levels and rates of return from, (iii) decrease or otherwise control its drilling, completion and operating costs and capital expenditures related to, and (iv) maximize reserve recovery from, its existing and future crude oil and natural gas exploration and development projects and associated potential and existing drilling locations; • the success of EOG's cost-mitigation initiatives and actions in offsetting the impact of inflationary pressures on EOG's operating costs and capital expenditures; • the extent to which EOG is successful in its efforts to market its production of crude oil and condensate, NGLs and natural gas; • security threats, including cybersecurity threats and disruptions to our business and operations from breaches of our information technology systems, physical breaches of our facilities and other infrastructure or breaches of the information technology systems, facilities and infrastructure of third parties with which we transact business; • the availability, proximity and capacity of, and costs associated with, appropriate gathering, processing, compression, storage, transportation, refining, and export facilities; • the availability, cost, terms and timing of issuance or execution of mineral licenses and leases and governmental and other permits and rights-of-way, and EOG's ability to retain mineral licenses and leases; • the impact of, and changes in, government policies, laws and regulations, including climate change-related regulations, policies and initiatives (for example, with respect to air emissions); tax laws and regulations (including, but not limited to, carbon tax and emissions-related legislation); environmental, health and safety laws and regulations relating to disposal of produced water, drilling fluids and other wastes, hydraulic fracturing and access to and use of water; laws and regulations affecting the leasing of acreage and permitting for oil and gas drilling and the calculation of royalty payments in respect of oil and gas production; laws and regulations imposing additional permitting and disclosure requirements, additional operating restrictions and conditions or restrictions on drilling and completion operations and on the transportation of crude oil, NGLs and natural gas; laws and regulations with respect to financial derivatives and hedging activities; and laws and regulations with respect to the import and export of crude oil, natural gas and related commodities; 52 • the impact of climate change-related policies and initiatives at the corporate and/or investor community levels and other potential developments related to climate change, such as (but not limited to) changes in consumer and industrial/commercial behavior, preferences and attitudes with respect to the generation and consumption of energy; increased availability of, and increased consumer and industrial/commercial demand for, competing energy sources (including alternative energy sources); technological advances with respect to the generation, transmission, storage and consumption of energy; alternative fuel requirements; energy conservation measures and emissions-related legislation; decreased demand for, and availability of, services and facilities related to the exploration for, and production of, crude oil, NGLs and natural gas; and negative perceptions of the oil and gas industry and, in turn, reputational risks associated with the exploration for, and production of, crude oil, NGLs and natural gas; • continuing political and social concerns relating to climate change and the greater potential for shareholder activism, governmental inquiries and enforcement actions and litigation and the resulting expenses and potential disruption to EOG's day-to-day operations; • the extent to which EOG is able to successfully and economically develop, implement and carry out its emissions and other ESG-related initiatives and achieve its related targets ad initiatives; • EOG's ability to effectively integrate acquired crude oil and natural gas properties into its operations, identify and resolve existing and potential issues with respect to such properties and accurately estimate reserves, production, drilling, completion and operating costs and capital expenditures with respect to such properties; • the extent to which EOG's third-party-operated crude oil and natural gas properties are operated successfully, economically and in compliance with applicable laws and regulations; • competition in the oil and gas exploration and production industry for the acquisition of licenses, leases and properties; • the availability and cost of, and competition in the oil and gas exploration and production industry for, employees, labor and other personnel, facilities, equipment, materials (such as water, sand, fuel and tubulars) and services; • the accuracy of reserve estimates, which by their nature involve the exercise of professional judgment and may therefore be imprecise; • weather, including its impact on crude oil and natural gas demand, and weather-related delays in drilling and in the installation and operation (by EOG or third parties) of production, gathering, processing, refining, compression, storage, transportation, and export facilities; • the ability of EOG's customers and other contractual counterparties to satisfy their obligations to EOG and, related thereto, to access the credit and capital markets to obtain financing needed to satisfy their obligations to EOG; • EOG's ability to access the commercial paper market and other credit and capital markets to obtain financing on terms it deems acceptable, if at all, and to otherwise satisfy its capital expenditure requirements; • the extent to which EOG is successful in its completion of planned asset dispositions; • the extent and effect of any hedging activities engaged in by EOG; • the timing and extent of changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, inflation rates, global and domestic financial market conditions and global and domestic general economic conditions; • the duration and economic and financial impact of epidemics, pandemics or other public health issues; • geopolitical factors and political conditions and developments around the world (such as the imposition of tariffs or trade or other economic sanctions, political instability and armed conflict), including in the areas in which EOG operates; • the extent to which EOG incurs uninsured losses and liabilities or losses and liabilities in excess of its insurance coverage; • acts of war and terrorism and responses to these acts; and • the other factors described under ITEM 1A, Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and any updates to those factors set forth in EOG's subsequent Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q or Current Reports on Form 8-K. In light of these risks, uncertainties and assumptions, the events anticipated by EOG's forward-looking statements may not occur, and, if any of such events do, we may not have anticipated the timing of their occurrence or the duration or extent of their impact on our actual results.  Accordingly, you should not place any undue reliance on any of EOG's forward-looking statements. EOG's forward-looking statements speak only as of the date made, and EOG undertakes no obligation, other than as required by applicable law, to update or revise its forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, subsequent events, anticipated or unanticipated circumstances or otherwise. 53