********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered in evaluating our business and future prospects. Note that additional risks not presently known to us or that are currently considered immaterial may also have a negative impact on our business and operations. If any of the events or circumstances described below actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could suffer and the trading price of our common stock could decline. Summary of Risk Factors We believe that the risks associated with our business, and consequently the risks associated with an investment in our equity or debt securities, fall within the following six categories: • Risks Associated with Natural Gas Drilling Operations. As a natural gas producer, there are risks inherent in our primary business operations. These risks are not necessarily unique to us, but rather, these are risks that most operators in our industry have at least some exposure to. • Financial and Market Risks. Given that our primary product and source of revenue is the sale of natural gas and NGLs, one of our most material risks is the commodity market and the price of natural gas and NGLs, which is often volatile. Additionally, our operations are capital intensive. Pressures on the market as a whole, or our specific financial 21 position – whether due to depressed commodity prices, our leverage, our credit ratings or otherwise – could make it difficult for us to obtain the funding necessary to conduct our operations. • Risks Associated with Our Human Capital, Technology and Other Resources and Service Providers. Our business, and the U.S. energy grid, is predominately operated on a digital system. Our employees rely on our cloud-based digital work environment to communicate and access data that is necessary to conduct our day-to-day operations. While these digital systems enable us to efficiently supply our natural gas and NGLs to the market, they are also susceptible to cyber security threats. Likewise, as a digitally-focused organization, we seek employees with a high degree of both technical skill and digital literacy, and it can be difficult to attract and retain personnel who satisfy these criteria. Further, we predominately operate in the Appalachia Basin, and a substantial majority of our midstream and water services are provided by one provider, EQM Midstream Partners, LP, making us vulnerable to risks associated with operating primarily in one major geographic area and obtaining a substantial amount of our services from a single provider within that operating area. • Legal and Regulatory Risks. There are many environmental, energy, financial, real property and other regulations that we are required to comply with in the context of conducting our operations, otherwise, we may be exposed to fines, penalties, investigations, litigation or other legal proceedings. Additionally, negative public perception of us or the natural gas industry, or increasing consumer demand for alternatives to natural gas, could adversely impact our earnings, cash flows and financial position. • Risks Associated with Strategic Transactions. We have historically been involved in, and anticipate that we will continue to explore, opportunities to create value through strategic transactions, whether through mergers and acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures or similar business transactions. There are risks inherent in any strategic transaction, and such risks could negatively affect the benefits, outcomes and synergies anticipated to be obtained from executing such strategic transactions. • Risks Related to the COVID-19 Pandemic. While we did not experience any material adverse effects from the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020, the severity, magnitude and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic is still uncertain, rapidly changing and difficult to predict. We believe that our principal areas of operational risk resulting from a pandemic are availability of service providers and supply chain disruption. Additionally, active development operations, including drilling and fracking operations, represent the greatest risk for transmission given the number of personnel and contractors on our drilling sites. We believe that we are following best practices under COVID-19 guidance; however, the potential for transmission still exists, and in certain instances, it may be necessary or determined advisable for us to delay our development operations. We describe these risks in greater detail below. Risks Associated with Natural Gas Drilling Operations Drilling for and producing natural gas is a high-risk and costly activity with many uncertainties. Our future financial position, cash flows and results of operations will depend on the success of our development and acquisition activities, which are subject to numerous risks beyond our control, including the risk that drilling will not result in commercially viable natural gas production or that we will not recover all or any portion of our investment in drilled wells. Many factors may curtail, delay or cancel our scheduled drilling projects, including the following: • delays imposed by or resulting from compliance with regulatory requirements, including limitations resulting from permitting, wastewater disposal, discharge of greenhouse gases, and limitations on hydraulic fracturing; • shortages of or delays in obtaining equipment, rigs, materials and qualified personnel or in obtaining water for hydraulic fracturing activities; • equipment failures, accidents or other unexpected operational events; • lack of available gathering and water facilities or delays in construction of gathering and water facilities; • lack of available capacity on interconnecting transportation pipelines; • adverse weather conditions, such as flooding, droughts, freeze-offs, slips, blizzards and ice storms; • issues related to compliance with environmental regulations; • environmental hazards, such as natural gas leaks, oil and diesel spills, pipeline and tank ruptures, encountering naturally occurring radioactive materials, and unauthorized discharges of brine, well stimulation and completion fluids, toxic gases or other pollutants into the surface and subsurface environment; 22 • declines in natural gas, NGLs and oil market prices; • limited availability of financing at acceptable terms; • ongoing litigation or adverse court rulings; • public opposition to our operations; • title, surface access, coal mining and right of way problems; and • limitations in the market for natural gas, NGLs and oil. Any of these risks can cause a delay in our development program or result in substantial financial losses, personal injury or loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, natural resources and equipment, pollution, environmental contamination or loss of wells and other regulatory penalties. We are subject to risks associated with the operation of our wells and facilities. Our business is subject to all of the inherent hazards and risks normally incidental to drilling for, producing, transporting and storing natural gas, NGLs and oil, such as fires, explosions, slips, landslides, blowouts, and well cratering; pipe and other equipment and system failures; delays imposed by, or resulting from, compliance with regulatory requirements; formations with abnormal or unexpected pressures; shortages of, or delays in, obtaining equipment and qualified personnel or in obtaining water for hydraulic fracturing activities; adverse weather conditions, such as freeze offs of wells and pipelines due to cold weather; issues related to compliance with environmental regulations; environmental hazards, such as natural gas leaks, oil and diesel spills, pipeline and tank ruptures, encountering naturally occurring radioactive materials, and unauthorized releases of brine, well stimulation and completion fluids, toxic gases or other pollutants into the environment, especially those that reach surface water or groundwater; inadvertent third-party damage to our assets, and natural disasters. We also face various risks or threats to the operation and security of our or third parties' facilities and infrastructure, such as processing plants, compressor stations and pipelines. Any of these risks could result in substantial losses due to personal injury and/or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property, equipment and natural resources, pollution or other environmental damage, loss of hydrocarbons, disruptions to our operations, regulatory investigations and penalties, suspension of our operations, repair and remediation costs, and loss of sensitive confidential information. Moreover, in the event that one or more of these hazards occur, there can be no assurance that a response will be adequate to limit or reduce damage. As a result of these risks, we are also sometimes a defendant in legal proceedings and litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. There can be no assurance that the insurance policies we maintain to limit our liability for such losses will be adequate to protect us from all material expenses related to potential future claims for personal injury and property damage or that such levels of insurance will be available in the future at economical prices or to cover all risks. In addition, pollution and environmental risks generally are not fully insurable, and we may elect not to obtain insurance for any or all of these risks if we believe that the cost of available insurance is excessive relative to the risks presented. The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Our drilling locations are scheduled out over many years, making them susceptible to uncertainties that could materially alter the occurrence or timing of when they are drilled, if at all. Our management team has specifically identified and scheduled certain well locations as an estimation of our future multi-year drilling activities on our existing acreage. These well locations represent a significant part of our business strategy. Our ability to drill and develop these locations depends on a number of uncertainties, including natural gas, NGLs and oil prices, the availability and cost of capital, drilling and production costs, the availability of drilling services and equipment, drilling results, lease expirations, topography, gathering system and pipeline transportation costs and constraints, access to and availability of water sourcing and distribution systems, coordination with coal mining, regulatory approvals and other factors. Because of these uncertain factors, we do not know if the drilling locations we have identified will ever be drilled or if we will be able to produce natural gas, NGLs or oil from these or any other drilling locations. In addition, unless production is established within the spacing units covering the undeveloped acres on which some of the potential locations are obtained, the leases for such acreage will expire. Further, certain of the horizontal wells we intend to drill in the future may require pooling or unitization with adjacent leaseholds controlled by third parties. If these third parties are unwilling to pool or unitize such leaseholds with ours, the total locations we can drill may be limited. As such, our actual drilling activities may materially differ from those presently identified. Failure to timely develop our leased real property could result in increased capital expenditures and/or impairment of our leases. Mineral rights are typically owned by individuals who may enter into property leases with us to allow for the development of natural gas. Such leases expire after an initial term, typically five years, unless certain actions are taken to preserve the lease. If 23 we cannot preserve a lease, the lease terminates. Approximately 16% of our net undeveloped acres are subject to leases that could expire over the next three years. Lack of access to capital, changes in government regulations, changes in future development plans, reduced drilling activity, or the reduction in the fair value of undeveloped properties in the areas in which we operate could impact our ability to preserve, trade, or sell our leases prior to their expiration resulting in the termination and impairment of leases for properties that we have not developed. We evaluate capitalized costs of unproved oil and gas properties at least annually to determine recoverability on a prospective basis. Indicators of potential impairment include changes brought about by economic factors, potential shifts in business strategy employed by management and historical experience. The likelihood of an impairment of unproved oil and gas properties increases as the expiration of a lease term approaches and drilling activity has not commenced. For the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, we recorded lease impairments and expirations of $306.7 million, $556.4 million and $279.7 million, respectively. Refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We may incur losses as a result of title defects in the properties in which we invest. Our inability to cure any title defects in our leases in a timely and cost-efficient manner may delay or prevent us from utilizing the associated mineral interest, which may adversely impact our ability in the future to increase production and reserves. The existence of a material title deficiency can render a lease worthless and can adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. The amount and timing of actual future natural gas, NGLs and oil production is difficult to predict and may vary significantly from our estimates, which may reduce our earnings. Because the rate of production from natural gas and oil wells, and associated NGLs, generally declines as reserves are depleted, our future success depends upon our ability to develop additional reserves that are economically recoverable and to optimize existing well production, and our failure to do so may reduce our earnings. Additionally, a failure to effectively and efficiently operate existing wells may cause production volumes to fall short of our projections. Our drilling and subsequent maintenance of wells can involve significant risks, including those related to timing, cost overruns and operational efficiency, and these risks can be affected by the availability of capital, leases, rigs, equipment, a qualified work force, and adequate capacity for the treatment and recycling or disposal of waste water generated in our operations, as well as weather conditions, natural gas, NGLs and oil price volatility, government approvals, title and property access problems, geology, equipment failure or accidents and other factors. Drilling for natural gas and oil can be unprofitable, not only from dry wells, but from productive wells that perform below expectations or do not produce sufficient revenues to return a profit. Low natural gas, NGLs and oil prices may further limit the types of reserves that we can develop and produce economically. Except to the extent that we acquire additional properties containing proved reserves, conduct successful exploration and development activities or, through engineering studies, identify additional behind-pipe zones or secondary recovery reserves, our proved reserves will decline as reserves are produced. Future natural gas, NGLs and oil production, therefore, is highly dependent upon our level of success in acquiring or finding additional reserves that are economically recoverable. We cannot be certain that we will be able to find or acquire and develop additional reserves at an acceptable cost. Without continued successful development or acquisition activities, together with efficient operation of existing wells, our reserves and production, together with associated revenues, will decline as a result of our current reserves being depleted by production. Our proved reserves are estimates that are based on many assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate. Any significant change in these underlying assumptions will greatly affect the quantities and present value of our reserves. Reserve engineering is a subjective process involving estimates of underground accumulations of natural gas, NGLs and oil and assumptions concerning future prices, production levels and operating and development costs, some of which are beyond our control. These estimates and assumptions are inherently imprecise, and we may adjust our estimates of proved reserves based on changes in these estimates or assumptions. As a result, estimated quantities of proved reserves and projections of future production rates and the timing of development expenditures may prove to be inaccurate. Any significant variance from our assumptions could greatly affect our estimates of reserves, the economically recoverable quantities of natural gas, NGLs and oil, the classifications of reserves based on risk of recovery and estimates of the future net cash flows. To the extent we experience a sustained period of reduced commodity prices, there is a risk that a portion of our proved reserves could be deemed uneconomic and no longer be classified as proved. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, actual production, revenues and costs to develop reserves will likely vary from estimates and these variances could be material. Numerous changes over time to the assumptions on which our reserve estimates are based, as described above, often result in the actual quantities of natural gas, NGLs and oil we ultimately recover being different from our reserve estimates. 24 The standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves is not the same as the current market value of our estimated natural gas, NGLs and crude oil reserves. You should not assume that the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves is the current market value of our estimated natural gas, NGLs and crude oil reserves. In accordance with SEC requirements, we based the discounted future net cash flows from our proved reserves on the twelve-month unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for the preceding twelve months without giving effect to derivative transactions. Actual future net cash flows from our properties will be affected by factors such as the actual prices we receive for natural gas, NGLs and oil, the amount, timing and cost of actual production and changes in governmental regulations or taxation. The timing of both our production and our incurrence of expenses in connection with the development and production of oil and gas properties will affect the timing and amount of actual future net revenues from proved reserves, and thus their actual present value. In addition, the 10% discount factor we use when calculating the standardized measure may not be the most appropriate discount factor based on interest rates in effect from time to time and risks associated with our operations or the natural gas, NGLs and oil industry in general. Natural gas, NGLs and oil price declines, and changes in our development strategy, have resulted in impairment of certain of our assets. Future declines in commodity prices, increases in operating costs or adverse changes in well performance or additional changes in our development strategy may result in additional write-downs of the carrying amounts of our assets, including long-lived intangible assets, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations in future periods. We review the carrying values of our proved oil and gas properties for indications of impairment when events or circumstances indicate that the remaining carrying value may not be recoverable. A significant amount of judgment is involved in performing these evaluations because the results are based on estimated future events and estimated future cash flows. The estimated future cash flows used to test our proved oil and gas properties for recoverability are based on proved and, if determined reasonable by management, risk-adjusted probable reserves, utilizing assumptions generally consistent with the assumptions used by our management for internal planning and budgeting purposes. Key assumptions used in our analyses, include, among other things, the intended use of the asset, the anticipated production from reserves, future market prices for natural gas, NGLs and oil, future operating costs, inflation and the anticipated proceeds that may be received upon divestiture if there is a possibility that the asset will be divested prior to the end of its useful life. Commodity pricing is estimated by using a combination of the five-year NYMEX forward strip prices and assumptions related to gas quality, locational basis adjustments and inflation. Proved oil and gas properties that have carrying amounts in excess of estimated future cash flows are written down to fair value, which is estimated by discounting the estimated future cash flows using discount rate assumptions that marketplace participants would use in their estimates of fair value. Future declines in natural gas, NGLs or oil prices, increases in operating costs or adverse changes in well performance, among other circumstances, may result in our having to make significant future downward adjustments to our estimated proved reserves and/or could result in additional non-cash impairment charges to write-down the carrying amount of our assets, including other long-lived intangible assets, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in future periods. Any impairment of our assets, including other long-lived intangible assets, would require us to take an immediate charge to earnings. Such charges could be material to our results of operations and could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. See "Impairment of Oil and Gas Properties" in Item 7., "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." Financial and Market Risks Applicable to Our Business Natural gas, NGLs and oil price volatility, or a prolonged period of low natural gas, NGLs and oil prices, may have an adverse effect on our revenue, profitability, future rate of growth, liquidity and financial position. Our revenue, profitability, future rate of growth, liquidity and financial position depend upon the prices for natural gas and, to a lesser extent, NGLs and oil. The prices for natural gas, NGLs and oil have historically been volatile, and we expect this volatility to continue in the future. The prices are affected by a number of factors beyond our control, which include: • weather conditions and seasonal trends; • the domestic and foreign supply of and demand for natural gas, NGLs and oil; • prevailing prices on local price indexes in the areas in which we operate and expectations about future commodity prices; 25 • national and worldwide economic and political conditions; • new and competing exploratory finds of natural gas, NGLs and oil; • changes in U.S. exports of natural gas, NGLs and oil; • the effect of energy conservation efforts; • the price, availability and acceptance of alternative fuels; • the availability, proximity, capacity and cost of pipelines, other transportation facilities, and gathering, processing and storage facilities and other factors that result in differentials to benchmark prices; • technological advances affecting energy consumption and production; • the actions of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries; • the level and effect of trading in commodity futures markets, including commodity price speculators and others; • the cost of exploring for, developing, producing and transporting natural gas, NGLs and oil; • the level of global inventories; • risks associated with drilling, completion and production operations; and • domestic, local and foreign governmental regulations, tariffs and taxes, including environmental and climate change regulation. The daily spot prices for NYMEX Henry Hub natural gas ranged from a high of $3.14 per MMBtu to a low of $1.33 per MMBtu from January 1, 2020 through December 31, 2020, and the daily spot prices for NYMEX West Texas Intermediate crude oil ranged from a high of $63.27 per barrel to a low of $(36.98) per barrel during the same period. In addition, the market price for natural gas in the Appalachian Basin continues to be lower relative to NYMEX Henry Hub as a result of significant increases in the supply of natural gas in the Northeast United States. Because our production and reserves predominantly consist of natural gas (approximately 93% of equivalent proved developed reserves), changes in natural gas prices have significantly greater impact on our financial results than oil prices. NGLs are made up of ethane, propane, isobutane, normal butane and natural gasoline, all of which have different uses and different pricing characteristics, which adds further volatility to the pricing of NGLs. Due to the volatility of commodity prices, we are unable to predict future potential movements in the market prices for natural gas, NGLs and oil at our ultimate sales points and thus cannot predict the ultimate impact of prices on our operations. Prolonged low, and/or significant or extended declines in, natural gas, NGLs and oil prices may adversely affect our revenues, operating income, cash flows and financial position, particularly if we are unable to control our development costs during periods of lower natural gas, NGLs and oil prices. Declines in prices could also adversely affect our drilling activities and the amount of natural gas, NGLs and oil that we can produce economically, which may result in our having to make significant downward adjustments to the value of our assets and could cause us to incur non-cash impairment charges to earnings. Reductions in cash flows from lower commodity prices may require us to incur additional borrowings or to reduce our capital spending, which could reduce our production and our reserves, negatively affecting our future rate of growth. Lower prices for natural gas, NGLs and oil may also adversely affect our credit ratings and result in a reduction in our borrowing capacity and access to other capital. See "Impairment of Oil and Gas Properties" in Item 7., "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." We are also exposed to the risk of non-performance by our hedge counterparties in the event that changes, positive or negative, in natural gas prices result in our derivative contracts having a positive fair value in our favor. Further, adverse economic and market conditions could negatively affect the collectability of our trade receivables and cause our hedge counterparties to be unable to perform their obligations or to seek bankruptcy protection. Increases in natural gas, NGLs and oil prices may be accompanied by or result in increased well drilling costs, increased production taxes, increased lease operating expenses, increased volatility in seasonal gas price spreads for our storage assets and increased end-user conservation or conversion to alternative fuels. Significant natural gas price increases may subject us to margin calls on our commodity price derivative contracts (hedging arrangements, including swap, collar and option agreements and exchange-traded instruments), which would potentially require us to post significant amounts of cash collateral with our hedge counterparties. The cash collateral provided to our hedge counterparties, which is interest-bearing, is returned to us in whole or in part upon a reduction in forward market prices, depending on the amount of such reduction, or in whole upon settlement of the related derivative contract. In addition, to the extent we have hedged our current production at prices below the current market price, we will not benefit fully from an increase in the price of natural gas. We may not be able to successfully execute our plan to deleverage our business or otherwise reduce our debt level. In an effort to improve our leverage ratio, in the fourth quarter of 2019, we announced a plan to reduce our absolute debt using free cash flow and targeted proceeds from the monetization of select, non-strategic exploration and production assets, core mineral assets and our remaining retained equity interest in Equitrans Midstream (the Deleveraging Plan). There can be no 26 assurance that we will be able to generate sufficient free cash flow or find attractive asset monetization opportunities or that any such transactions will be completed on our anticipated timeframe, if at all, which would delay or inhibit our ability to successfully execute our Deleveraging Plan. Furthermore, our estimated value for the assets to be monetized under our Deleveraging Plan involves multiple assumptions and judgments about future events that are inherently uncertain; accordingly, there can be no assurance that the resulting net cash proceeds from asset monetization transactions will be as anticipated, even if such transactions are consummated. Some of the factors that could affect our ability to successfully execute our Deleveraging Plan include changes in the financial condition or prospects of prospective purchasers and the availability of financing to potential purchasers on reasonable terms, the number of prospective purchasers, the number of competing assets on the market, unfavorable economic conditions, industry trends and changes in laws and regulations. If we are not able to successfully execute our Deleveraging Plan or otherwise reduce our absolute debt to a level we believe appropriate, our credit ratings may be lowered, we may reduce or delay our planned capital expenditures or investments, and we may revise or delay our strategic plans. Our exploration and production operations have substantial capital requirements, and we may not be able to obtain needed capital or financing on satisfactory terms. Our business is capital intensive. We make and expect to continue to make substantial capital expenditures for the development and acquisition of natural gas, NGLs and oil reserves. We typically fund our capital expenditures with existing cash and cash generated by operations and, to the extent our capital expenditures exceed our cash resources, from borrowings under our credit facility and other external sources of capital. If we do not have sufficient borrowing availability under our credit facility, we may seek alternate debt or equity financing, sell assets or reduce our capital expenditures. The issuance of additional indebtedness would require that a portion of our cash flow from operations be used for the payment of interest and principal on our indebtedness, thereby reducing our ability to use cash flow from operations to fund working capital, capital expenditures and acquisitions. The actual amount and timing of our future capital expenditures may differ materially from our estimates as a result of, among other things, natural gas prices, actual drilling results, the availability of drilling rigs and other services and equipment, and regulatory, technological and competitive developments. Our cash flow from operations and access to capital are subject to a number of variables, including: • our level of proved reserves and production; • the level of hydrocarbons we are able to produce from existing wells; • our access to, and the cost of accessing, end markets for our production; • the prices at which our production is sold; • our ability to acquire, locate and produce new reserves; • the levels of our operating expenses; and • our ability to access the public or private capital markets or borrow under our credit facility. If our cash flows from operations or the borrowing capacity under our credit facility are insufficient to fund our capital expenditures and we are unable to obtain the capital necessary for our planned capital budget or our operations, we could be required to curtail our operations and the development of our properties, which in turn could lead to a decline in our reserves and production, and could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial position. As of December 31, 2020, our senior notes were rated "Ba3" with a "positive" outlook by Moody's Investors Services (Moody's), "BB" with a "stable" outlook by Standard & Poor's Ratings Service (S&P) and "BB" with a "positive" outlook by Fitch Ratings Service (Fitch). Although we are not aware of any current plans of Moody's, S&P or Fitch to downgrade its rating of our senior notes, we cannot be assured that one or more of these rating agencies will not downgrade or withdraw entirely its rating of our senior notes. Low prices for natural gas, NGLs and oil, an increase in the level of our indebtedness or a failure to significantly execute our Deleveraging Plan may result in Moody's, S&P or Fitch downgrading its rating of our senior notes. Changes in credit ratings may affect our access to the capital markets, the cost of short-term debt through interest rates and fees under our lines of credit, the interest rate on the Adjustable Rate Notes (defined in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements), the rates available on new long-term debt, our pool of investors and funding sources, the borrowing costs and margin deposit requirements on our OTC derivative instruments and credit assurance requirements, including collateral, in support of our midstream service contracts, joint venture arrangements or construction contracts. 27 Risks associated with our debt and the provisions of our debt agreements could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. As of December 31, 2020, we had approximately $4,925 million of debt outstanding, and we may incur additional indebtedness in the future. Increases in our level of indebtedness may: • require us to use a substantial portion of our cash flow to make debt service payments, which will reduce the funds that would otherwise be available for operations and future business opportunities; • limit our operating flexibility due to financial and other restrictive covenants, including restrictions on incurring additional debt, making certain investments, and paying dividends; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors with lower debt service obligations; • depending on the levels of our outstanding debt, limit our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, general corporate and other purposes; and • increase our vulnerability to downturns in our business or the economy, including declines in prices for natural gas, NGLs and oil. Our debt agreements also require compliance with certain covenants. If the price that we receive for our natural gas, NGLs and oil production deteriorates from current levels or continues for an extended period, it could lead to reduced revenues, cash flow and earnings, which in turn could lead to a default due to lack of covenant compliance. For more information about our debt agreements, read "Capital Resources and Liquidity" in Item 7., "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." We are subject to financing and interest rate exposure risks. Our business and operating results can be adversely affected by increases in interest rates or other increases in the cost of capital resulting from a reduction in our credit rating or otherwise. These changes could cause our cost of doing business to increase, limit our ability to pursue acquisition opportunities, reduce cash flows used for operating and capital expenditures and place us at a competitive disadvantage. Disruptions or volatility in the financial markets may lead to a contraction in credit availability impacting our ability to finance our operations. A significant reduction in the availability of credit could materially and adversely affect our ability to implement our business strategy and achieve favorable operating results. In addition, we are exposed to credit risk related to our credit facility to the extent that one or more of our lenders may be unable to provide necessary funding to us under our existing line of credit if it experiences liquidity problems. Uncertainty related to the LIBOR calculation process and potential phasing out of LIBOR after 2021 may adversely affect the market value of our current or future debt obligations. Loans to us under our credit facility may be base rate loans or LIBOR loans. LIBOR is calculated by reference to a market for interbank lending, and it is based on increasingly fewer actual transactions. This increases the subjectivity of the LIBOR calculation process and increases the risk of manipulation. Actions by the regulators or law enforcement agencies, as well as ICE Benchmark Administration (the current administrator of LIBOR), may result in changes to the manner that LIBOR is determined or the establishment of alternative reference rates. For example, on July 27, 2017, the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority announced that it intends to stop persuading or compelling banks to submit LIBOR rates after 2021. U.S. Dollar LIBOR will likely be replaced by the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR) published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York; however, the timing of this shift is currently unknown. SOFR is an overnight rate instead of a term rate, making SOFR an inexact replacement for LIBOR, and there is not an established process to create robust, forward-looking, SOFR term rates. Changing the benchmark rate for LIBOR loans from LIBOR to SOFR requires calculations of a spread. Industry organizations are attempting to structure the spread calculation in a manner that minimizes the possibility of value transfer between counterparties, borrowers, and lenders by the transition, but there is no assurance that the calculated spread will be fair and accurate. At this time, it is not possible to predict the effect of any such changes, any establishment of alternative reference rates or any other reforms to LIBOR that may be implemented. If LIBOR ceases to exist, we may need to renegotiate our credit facility to determine the interest rate to replace LIBOR with the new standard that is established. As such, the potential effect of any such event on our interest expense cannot yet be determined. 28 Derivative transactions may limit our potential gains and involve other risks. To manage our exposure to price risk, we currently and may in the future enter into derivative arrangements, utilizing commodity derivatives with respect to a portion of our future production. Such hedges are designed to lock in prices in order to limit volatility and increase the predictability of cash flow. These transactions limit our potential gains if natural gas, NGLs and oil prices rise above the price established by the hedge. In addition, derivative transactions may expose us to the risk of financial loss in certain circumstances, including instances in which: • our production is less than expected; • the counterparties to our derivative contracts fail to perform on their contract obligations; or • an event materially impacts natural gas, NGLs or oil prices or the relationship between the hedged price index and the natural gas, NGLs or oil sales price. We cannot be certain that any derivative transaction we may enter into will adequately protect us from declines in the prices of natural gas, NGLs or oil. Furthermore, where we choose not to engage in derivative transactions in the future, we may be more adversely affected by changes in natural gas, NGLs or oil prices than our competitors who engage in derivative transactions. Lower natural gas, NGLs and oil prices may also negatively impact our ability to enter into derivative contracts at favorable prices. Derivative transactions also expose us to a risk of financial loss if a counterparty fails to perform under a derivative contract or enters bankruptcy or encounters some other similar proceeding or liquidity constraint. In this case, we may not be able to collect all or a significant portion of amounts owed to us by the distressed entity or entities. During periods of falling commodity prices our hedge receivable positions increase, which increases our exposure. If the creditworthiness of our counterparties deteriorates and results in their nonperformance, we could incur a significant loss. The accounting for the Convertible Notes may have a material effect on our reported financial results. On April 28, 2020, we issued the Convertible Notes (defined in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements) due May 1, 2026 unless earlier redeemed, repurchased or converted. In accordance with GAAP, an issuer must separately account for the liability and equity components of certain convertible debt instruments that may be settled entirely or partially in cash upon conversion in a manner that reflects the issuer's economic interest cost. The effect on the accounting for the Convertible Notes is that the equity component is required to be included in additional paid-in capital of shareholders' equity on our Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheet, and the value of the equity component is treated as a debt discount for purposes of accounting for the debt component of the Convertible Notes. Accordingly, we will be required to record a greater amount of non-cash interest expense in current and future periods as a result of the amortization of the discounted carrying value of the Convertible Notes to their face amount over the term of the Convertible Notes. We will report lower net income (or greater net loss) in our financial results because GAAP requires interest to include both the current period's amortization of the debt discount and the instrument's coupon interest, which could adversely affect our reported or future financial results, the market price of our common stock and the trading price of the Convertible Notes. In addition, because we have the ability and intent to settle the Convertible Notes, upon conversion, by paying or delivering cash equal to the principal amount of the obligation and common stock for amounts over the principal amount, the shares issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Notes are accounted for using the treasury stock method and, as such, are not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share except to the extent that the conversion value of the Convertible Notes exceeds their principal amount. Further, under the treasury stock method, the transaction is accounted for as if the number of shares of common stock that would be necessary to settle such excess are issued. We cannot be sure that we will be able to continue to demonstrate the ability or intent to settle in cash or that the accounting standards will continue to permit the use of the treasury stock method. If we are unable to use the treasury stock method in accounting for the shares issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Notes, our diluted earnings per share could be adversely affected. Risks Associated with Our Human Capital, Technology and Other Resources and Service Providers Strategic determinations, including the allocation of resources to strategic opportunities, are challenging, and our failure to appropriately allocate resources among our strategic opportunities may adversely affect our financial position and reduce our future prospects. Our future prospects are dependent upon our ability to identify optimal strategies for our business. Our operational strategy focuses on developing several multi-well pads in tandem through a process known as combo-development. We have allocated a 29 substantial portion of our financial, human capital and other resources to pursuing this strategy, including investing in new technologies and equipment, restructuring our workforce, and pursuing various ESG initiatives geared towards enhancing our strategy. We may not realize some or any of the anticipated strategic, financial, operational, environmental and other anticipated benefits from our operational strategy and the corresponding investments we have made in pursuing our strategy. Additionally, we cannot be certain that we will be able to successfully execute combo-development projects at the pace and scale that we project, which may delay or reduce our production and our reserves, negatively affecting our associated revenues. If we fail to identify and successfully execute optimal business strategies, including the appropriate operational strategy and corresponding initiatives, or fail to optimize our capital investments and the use of our other resources in furtherance of optimal business strategies, our financial position and growth may be adversely affected. Moreover, economic or other circumstances may change from those contemplated by our business plan, and our failure to recognize or respond to those changes may limit our ability to achieve our objectives. Cyber incidents targeting our digital work environment or other technologies or natural gas and oil industry systems and infrastructure may adversely impact our operations. Our business and the natural gas and oil industry in general have become increasingly dependent upon digital technologies, including information systems, infrastructure and cloud applications, and the maintenance of our financial and other records has long been dependent upon such technologies. We depend on this technology to record and store data, estimate quantities of natural gas, NGLs and oil reserves, analyze and share operating data and communicate internally and externally. Computers and mobile devices control nearly all of the natural gas, NGLs and oil distribution systems in the U.S., which are necessary to transport our products to market. The U.S. government has issued public warnings that indicate that energy assets might be specific targets of cyber security threats. We can provide no assurance that we will not suffer such attacks in the future. Deliberate attacks on, or unintentional events affecting, our digital work environment or other technologies and infrastructure, the systems or infrastructure of third parties or the cloud could lead to corruption or loss of our proprietary data and potentially sensitive data, delays in production or delivery of natural gas, NGLs and oil, difficulty in completing and settling transactions, challenges in maintaining our books and records, communication interruptions, environmental damage, personal injury, property damage, other operational disruptions and third-party liability. Further, as cyber incidents continue to evolve and cyber attackers become more sophisticated, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any vulnerability to cyber incidents. The cost to remedy an unintended dissemination of sensitive information or data may be significant. Furthermore, the continuing and evolving threat of cyber-attacks has resulted in increased regulatory focus on prevention. To the extent we face increased regulatory requirements, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to meet such requirements. The unavailability or high cost of additional drilling rigs, completion services, equipment, supplies, personnel, and oilfield services could adversely affect our ability to execute our exploration and development plans within our budget and on a timely basis. The demand for qualified and experienced field personnel to drill wells and conduct field operations, geologists, geophysicists, engineers, and other professionals in the natural gas and oil industry can fluctuate significantly, often in correlation with natural gas and oil prices, causing periodic shortages or higher costs. Historically, there have been shortages of personnel and equipment as demand for personnel and equipment has increased along with the number of wells being drilled. We cannot predict whether these conditions will exist in the future and, if so, what their timing and duration will be. Such shortages could delay or cause us to incur significant expenditures that are not provided for in our capital budget, which could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Our ability to drill for and produce natural gas is dependent on the availability of adequate supplies of water for drilling and completion operations and access to water and waste disposal or recycling services at a reasonable cost and in accordance with applicable environmental rules. Restrictions on our ability to obtain water or dispose of produced water and other waste may adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. The hydraulic fracture stimulation process on which we depend to drill and complete natural gas wells requires the use and disposal of significant quantities of water. Our ability to access sources of water and the availability of disposal alternatives to receive all of the water produced from our wells and used in hydraulic fracturing may affect our drilling and completion operations. Our inability to secure sufficient amounts of water, or to dispose of or recycle the water used in our operations, or to timely obtain water sourcing permits or other rights, could adversely affect our operations. Additionally, the imposition of new 30 environmental initiatives and regulations could include restrictions on our ability to obtain water or dispose of waste, which would adversely affect our business and results of operations, which could result in decreased cash flows. In addition, federal and state regulatory agencies recently have focused on a possible connection between the operation of injection wells used for natural gas and oil waste disposal and increased seismic activity in certain areas. In some cases, operators of injection wells in the vicinity of seismic events have been ordered to reduce injection volumes or suspend operations. Increased regulation and attention given to induced seismicity in the states where we operate could lead to restrictions on our disposal well injection volumes and increased scrutiny of and delay in obtaining new disposal well permits, which could result in increased operating costs, which could be material, or a curtailment of our operations. The loss of key personnel could adversely affect our ability to execute our strategic, operational and financial plans. Our operations are dependent upon key management and technical personnel, and one or more of these individuals could leave our employment. The unexpected loss of the services of one or more of these individuals could have a detrimental effect on us. In addition, the success of our operations will depend, in part, on our ability to identify, attract, develop and retain experienced personnel. There is competition within our industry for experienced technical personnel and certain other professionals, which could increase the costs associated with identifying, attracting and retaining such personnel. If we cannot identify, attract, develop and retain our technical and professional personnel or attract additional experienced technical and professional personnel, our ability to compete in our industry could be harmed. We depend on third-party midstream providers for a significant portion of our midstream services, and our failure to obtain and maintain access to the necessary infrastructure to successfully deliver natural gas, NGLs and oil to market on competitive terms may adversely affect our earnings, cash flows and results of operations. Our delivery of natural gas, NGLs and oil depends upon the availability, proximity and capacity of pipelines, other transportation facilities and gathering and processing facilities primarily owned by third parties, and our ability to contract with these third parties at competitive rates or at all. The capacity of transmission, gathering and processing facilities may be insufficient to accommodate potential production from existing and new wells, which may result in substantial discounts in the prices we receive for our natural gas, NGLs and oil or result in the shut-in of producing wells or the delay or discontinuance of development plans for properties. Competition for access to pipeline infrastructure within the Appalachian Basin is intense, and our ability to secure access to pipeline infrastructure on favorable economic terms could affect our competitive position. We are dependent on third-party providers to provide us with access to midstream infrastructure to get our produced natural gas, NGLs and oil to market. To the extent these services are delayed or unavailable, we would be unable to realize revenue from wells served by such facilities until suitable arrangements are made to market our production. Access to midstream assets may be unavailable due to market conditions or mechanical or other reasons. In addition, at current commodity prices, construction of new pipelines and building of such infrastructure may occur more slowly. A lack of access to needed infrastructure, or an extended interruption of access to or service from third-party pipelines and facilities for any reason, including vandalism, terroristic acts, sabotage or cyber-attacks on such pipelines and facilities or service interruptions due to gas quality, could result in adverse consequences to us, such as delays in producing and selling our natural gas, NGLs and oil. Finally, in order to ensure access to certain midstream facilities, we have entered into agreements that obligate us to pay demand charges to various pipeline operators. We also have commitments with third parties for processing capacity. We may be obligated to make payments under these agreements even if we do not fully use the capacity we have reserved, and these payments may be significant. The substantial majority of our midstream and water services are provided by one provider, EQM Midstream Partners LP (EQM), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Equitrans Midstream. Therefore, any regulatory, infrastructure, or other events that materially adversely affect EQM's business operations will have a disproportionately adverse effect on our business and operating results as compared to similar events experienced by our other third-party service providers. Additionally, our midstream services contracts with EQM involve significant long-term financial and other commitments on our part, which hinders our ability to diversify our slate of midstream service providers and seek better economic and other terms for the midstream services that are provided to us. We have no control over Equitrans Midstream's or EQM's business decisions and operations, and neither Equitrans Midstream nor EQM is under any obligation to adopt a business strategy that favors us. Historically, we have received the substantial majority of our natural gas gathering, transmission and storage and water services from EQM. Additionally, on February 26, 2020, we executed a new gas gathering agreement with EQM (the Consolidated 31 GGA), which, among other things, consolidated the majority of our prior gathering agreements with EQM into a single agreement, established a new fee structure for gathering and compression fees charged by EQM, increased our minimum volume commitments with EQM, committed certain of our remaining undedicated acreage to EQM and extended our and EQM's contractual obligations with each other to 2035. Because we have significant long-term contractual commitments with EQM, we expect to receive the majority of our midstream and water services from EQM for the foreseeable future. Therefore, any event, whether in our areas of operation or otherwise, that adversely affects EQM's operations, water assets, pipelines, other transportation facilities, gathering and processing facilities, financial condition, leverage, results of operations or cash flows will have a disproportionately adverse effect on our business and operating results as compared to similar events experienced by our other third-party service providers. Accordingly, we are subject to the business risks of EQM, including the following: • federal, state and local regulatory, political and legal actions that could adversely affect EQM's operations, assets and infrastructure, including potential further delays associated with obtaining regulatory approval for the construction of the Mountain Valley Pipeline and the MVP Southgate project; • construction risks associated with the construction or repair of EQM's pipelines and other midstream infrastructure, such as delays caused by landowners or advocacy groups opposed to the natural gas industry, environmental hazards, adverse weather conditions, the performance of third-party contractors, the lack of available skilled labor, equipment and materials and the inability to obtain necessary rights-of-way or approvals and permits from regulatory agencies on a timely basis or at all (and maintain such rights-of-way, approvals and permits once obtained); • acts of cybersecurity, sabotage or terrorism that could cause significant damage or injury to EQM's personnel, assets or infrastructure or lead to extended interruptions of EQM's operations; • risks associated with EQM failing to properly balance supply and demand for its services, on a short-term, seasonal and long-term basis, which could result in EQM being unable to provide its customers, including us, with sufficient access to pipeline and other midstream infrastructure and water services as needed; and • risks associated with EQM's leverage and financial profile, which could result in EQM being financially deterred or prohibited from providing services to its customers, including us, on a timely basis or at all. In addition, many of our midstream services obligations with EQM are "firm" commitments, under which we have reserved an agreed upon amount of pipeline or storage capacity with EQM regardless of the capacity that we actually use during each month, and we are generally obligated to pay a fixed, monthly charge, at an amount agreed upon in the contract. Because these obligations involve significant long-term financial and other commitments on our part, they could reduce our cash flow during periods of low prices for natural gas, NGLs and oil when we may have lower volumes of natural gas and NGLs and therefore less of a need for capacity and storage, or the market prices for such pipeline and storage capacity services may be lower than what we are contractually obligated to pay to EQM. Further, the Consolidated GGA provides for a reduced fee structure for the gathering and compression fees charged by EQM; however this new fee structure does not take effect until the Mountain Valley Pipeline's in-service date. There can be no assurance that the in-service date of the Mountain Valley Pipeline will not be delayed, or that the project will not be cancelled entirely, which would consequently delay, possibly indefinitely, the effective date of the fee reductions contemplated in the Consolidated GGA. Neither Equitrans Midstream nor EQM is under any obligation to renegotiate their contracts with us, including the Consolidated GGA, in the event of a prolonged depressed commodity price environment or if the Mountain Valley Pipeline's in-service date is delayed. We have recorded in our Consolidated Balance Sheet a contract asset of $410 million representing the estimated fair value of the rate relief provided by the Consolidated GGA that would be realized beginning with the Mountain Valley Pipeline’s in-service date. We review the contract asset for indications of impairment when events or circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Although the Consolidated GGA provides a cash payment option that grants us the right to receive payments from EQM in the event that the Mountain Valley Pipeline in-service date has not occurred prior to January 1, 2022, future delays in the Mountain Valley Pipeline’s in-service date may nonetheless affect our ability to fully realize the value we recorded as a contract asset for the rate relief associated with the Consolidated GGA, which could adversely affect our results of operations in future periods. Substantially all of our producing properties are concentrated in the Appalachian Basin, making us vulnerable to risks associated with operating primarily in one major geographic area. Substantially all of our producing properties are geographically concentrated in the Appalachian Basin. As a result of this concentration, we may be disproportionately exposed to the impact of regional supply and demand factors, delays or interruptions of production from wells in these areas caused by, and costs associated with, governmental regulation, state and local political activities, processing or transportation capacity constraints, market limitations, availability of equipment and personnel, water shortages or other weather-related conditions, interruption of the processing or transportation of natural gas, 32 NGLs or oil and changes in state and local laws, judicial precedents, political regimes and regulations. Such conditions could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. In addition, a number of areas within the Appalachian Basin have historically been subject to mining operations. For example, third parties may engage in subsurface coal and other mining operations near or under our properties, which could cause subsidence or other damage to our properties, adversely impact our drilling operations or adversely impact third-party midstream activities on which we rely. In such event, our operations may be impaired or interrupted, and we may not be able to recover the costs incurred as a result of temporary shut-ins or the plugging and abandonment of any of our wells. Furthermore, the existence of mining operations near our properties could require coordination to avoid adverse impacts as a result of drilling and mining in close proximity. These restrictions on our operations, and any similar restrictions, could cause delays or interruptions or prevent us from executing our business strategy, which could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. Further, insufficient takeaway capacity in the Appalachian Basin could cause significant fluctuations in our realized natural gas prices. The Appalachian Basin has experienced periods in which production has surpassed local takeaway capacity, resulting in substantial discounts in the price received by producers such as us and others at times being possibly shut in. Although additional Appalachian Basin takeaway capacity has been added in recent years, the existing and expected capacity may not be sufficient to keep pace with the increased production caused by accelerated drilling in the area in the short term. Due to the concentrated nature of our portfolio of natural gas properties, a number of our properties could experience any of the same conditions at the same time, resulting in a relatively greater impact on our results of operations than they might have on other companies that have a more diversified portfolio of properties. Legal and Regulatory Risks Negative public perception regarding us and/or our industry could have an adverse effect on our operations. Opposition toward oil and natural gas drilling and development activities generally has been growing globally and is particularly pronounced in the U.S., and companies in our industry are often the target of activist efforts from both individuals and non-governmental organizations regarding safety, human rights, environmental matters, sustainability and business practices. Negative public perception regarding us and/or our industry may lead to increased litigation and regulatory, legislative and judicial scrutiny, which may, in turn, lead to new local, state and federal laws, regulations, guidelines and enforcement interpretations in safety, environmental, royalty and surface use areas. These actions may cause operational delays or restrictions, increased operating costs, additional regulatory burdens and increased risk of litigation. Moreover, governmental authorities exercise considerable discretion in the timing and scope of permit issuance and the public may engage in the permitting process, including through intervention in the courts. Negative public perception could cause the permits we need to conduct our operations to be withheld, delayed, challenged or burdened by requirements that restrict our ability to profitably conduct our business. In addition, anti-development activists are working to, among other things, reduce access to federal and state government lands and delay or cancel certain operations, such as drilling and development. If activism against oil and natural gas exploration and development persists or increases, there could be a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to complex federal, state, local and other laws and regulations that could adversely affect the cost, manner or feasibility of conducting our operations or expose us to significant liabilities. Our exploration and production operations are subject to various types of federal, state and local laws and regulations, including regulations related to the location of wells; the method of drilling, well construction, well stimulation, hydraulic fracturing and casing design; water withdrawal and procurement for well stimulation purposes; well production; spill prevention plans; the use, transportation, storage and disposal of water and other fluids and materials, including solid and hazardous wastes, incidental to natural gas and oil operations; surface usage and the reclamation of properties upon which wells or other facilities have been located; the plugging and abandoning of wells; the calculation, reporting and disbursement of royalties and taxes; and the gathering of production in certain circumstances. Our operations are also subject to conservation and correlative rights regulations, including the regulation of the size of drilling and spacing units or field rule units; setbacks; the number of wells that may be drilled in a unit or in close proximity to other wells; drilling in the vicinity of coal mining operations and certain other structures; and the unitization or pooling of properties. Some states allow the statutory pooling and unitization of tracts to facilitate development and exploration, as well as joint 33 development of existing contiguous leases. In addition, state conservation and natural gas and oil laws generally limit the venting or flaring of natural gas and may set production allowances on the amount of annual production permitted from a well. Environmental, health and safety legal requirements govern discharges of substances into the air, ground and water; the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes; the clean-up of contaminated sites; groundwater quality and availability; plant and wildlife protection; locations available for drilling; environmental impact studies and assessments prior to permitting; restoration of drilling properties after drilling is completed; and work practices related to employee health and safety. To conduct our operations in compliance with these laws and regulations, we must obtain and maintain numerous permits, approvals and certificates from various federal, state and local governmental authorities. Maintaining compliance with the laws, regulations and other legal requirements applicable to our business and any delays in obtaining related authorizations may affect the costs and timing of developing our natural gas, NGLs and oil resources. These requirements could also subject us to claims for personal injuries, property damage and other damages. In addition, our costs of compliance may increase if existing laws and regulations are revised or reinterpreted, or if new laws and regulations become applicable to our operations. Such costs could materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. Our failure to comply with the laws, regulations and other legal requirements applicable to our business, even if as a result of factors beyond our control, could result in the suspension or termination of our operations and subject us to administrative, civil and criminal penalties and damages as well as corrective action costs. Changes in tax laws and regulations could adversely impact our earnings and the cost, manner or feasibility of conducting our operations. Effective January 1, 2018, changes to certain U.S. federal income tax laws were signed into law that impact us, including but not limited to: changes to the regular income tax rate; the elimination of the alternative minimum tax (AMT); full expensing of capital equipment; limited deductibility of interest expense; and increased limitations on deductible executive compensation. On March 27, 2020, the U.S. Congress enacted the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (CARES Act), which, among other things, includes provisions relating to net operating loss (NOL) carryback periods, AMT credit refunds and modifications to the net interest deduction limitations. In particular, under the CARES Act, (i) for taxable years beginning before 2021, NOL carryforwards and carrybacks may offset 100% of taxable income, (ii) NOLs arising in 2018, 2019, and 2020 taxable years may be carried back to each of the preceding five years to generate a refund, and (iii) for taxable years beginning in 2019 and 2020, the base for interest deductibility is increased from 30% to 50% of EBITDA. Members of Congress periodically introduce legislation to revise U.S. federal income tax laws which could have a material impact on us. The most significant potential tax law changes that could impact us include increases in the regular income tax rate, a new minimum tax based on net income, the expensing of intangible drilling costs or percentage depletion, the repeal of like-kind exchange tax deferral rules on real property and further limited deductibility of interest expense, any of which could adversely impact our current and deferred federal and state income tax liabilities. State and local taxing authorities in jurisdictions in which we operate or own assets may enact new taxes, such as the imposition of a severance tax on the extraction of natural resources in states in which we produce natural gas, NGLs and oil, or change the rates of existing taxes, which could adversely impact our earnings, cash flows and financial position. Our hedging activities are subject to numerous and evolving financial laws and regulations which could inhibit our ability to effectively hedge our production against commodity price risk or increase our cost of compliance. We use financial derivative instruments to hedge the impact of fluctuations in natural gas, NGLs and oil prices on our results of operations and cash flows. In 2010, Congress adopted the Dodd-Frank Act, which established federal oversight and regulation of the OTC derivative market and entities, such as us, that participate in that market. The Dodd-Frank Act required the CFTC, the SEC and certain federal agencies that regulate the banking and insurance sectors (Prudential Regulators) to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the legislation. Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act established margin requirements and requires clearing and trade execution practices for certain categories of swaps and may result in certain market participants needing to curtail their derivative activities. Although some of the rules necessary to implement the Dodd-Frank Act have yet to be adopted, the CFTC, the SEC and Prudential Regulators have issued numerous rules, including the End-User Exception, which exempts certain “end-users” from having to comply with mandatory clearing, a Margin Rule mandating margining for certain uncleared swaps, and a Position Limits Rule imposing federal position limits on certain futures contracts relating to energy products, including natural gas. 34 We qualify as a “non-financial entity” for purposes of the End-User Exception and, as such, we are eligible for such exception. As a result, our hedging activities are not subject to mandatory clearing or the margin requirements imposed in connection with mandatory clearing, although we are subject to certain recordkeeping and reporting obligations associated with such rule. We also qualify as a “non-financial end user” for purposes of the Margin Rule; therefore, our uncleared swaps are not subject to regulatory margin requirements. Finally, although the Position Limits Rule does not go into effect with respect to energy products until January 1, 2022, we believe that the majority, if not all, of our hedging activities constitute bona fide hedging under the Position Limits Rule and will not be subject to the limitations under such rule. However, many of our hedge counterparties and other market participants are not eligible for the End-User Exception, are subject to mandatory clearing and the Margin Rule for swaps with some or all of their other swap counterparties, and may be subject to the Position Limits Rule, which may affect the pricing and/or availability of derivatives for us. In addition, the European Union and other non-U.S. jurisdictions have enacted laws and regulations related to derivatives (collectively, Foreign Regulations) which apply to our transactions with counterparties subject to such Foreign Regulations. The Dodd-Frank Act, the rules adopted thereunder and the Foreign Regulations could increase the cost of our derivative contracts, alter the terms of our derivative contracts, reduce the availability of derivatives to protect against the price risks we encounter, reduce our ability to monetize or restructure our existing derivative contracts, lessen the number of available counterparties and, in turn, increase our exposure to less creditworthy counterparties. If our use of derivatives is reduced as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act, related regulations or the Foreign Regulations, our results of operations may become more volatile, and our cash flows may be less predictable, which could adversely affect our ability to plan for, and fund, our capital expenditure requirements. Any of these consequences could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations. We have experienced increased, and anticipate additional, compliance costs and changes to current market practices as participants continue to adapt to a changing financial regulatory environment. Federal, state and local legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to hydraulic fracturing and governmental reviews of such activities could result in increased costs and additional operating restrictions or delays in the completion of natural gas and oil wells, which could adversely affect our production. We use hydraulic fracturing in the completion of our wells. Hydraulic fracturing typically is regulated by state natural gas and oil commissions, but the EPA has asserted federal regulatory authority. For example, the EPA finalized rules in June 2016 to prohibit the discharge of wastewater from hydraulic fracturing operations to publicly owned wastewater treatment plants, and after a legal challenge by environmental groups, in July 2019, the EPA declined to revise the rules. Certain governmental reviews have been conducted or are underway that focus on the environmental aspects of hydraulic fracturing practices. In addition, Congress has from time to time considered legislation to provide for federal regulation of hydraulic fracturing under the SDWA and to require disclosure of the chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process. At the state level, several states have adopted or are considering legal requirements that could impose more stringent permitting, disclosure, and well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing activities. Local governments also may seek to adopt ordinances within their jurisdictions regulating the time, place and manner of drilling activities in general or hydraulic fracturing activities in particular. Some states and municipalities have sought to ban hydraulic fracturing altogether. If new or more stringent federal, state, or local legal restrictions relating to the hydraulic fracturing process are adopted in areas where we operate, we could incur potentially significant added costs to comply with such requirements, experience delays or curtailment in the pursuit of exploration, development, or production activities, and perhaps even be precluded from constructing wells. See "Business-Regulation-Environmental, Health and Safety Regulation" for more information. Our operations may be exposed to significant delays, costs and liabilities as a result of environmental and occupational health and safety requirements applicable to our business activities. We may incur significant delays, costs and liabilities as a result of environmental and occupational health and safety requirements applicable to our exploration, development and production activities. These delays, costs and liabilities could arise under a wide range of federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to protection of the environment and occupational health and workplace safety, including regulations and enforcement policies that have tended to become increasingly strict over time resulting in longer waiting periods to receive permits and other regulatory approvals. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, imposition of cleanup and site restoration costs and liens, and, in some instances, issuance of orders or injunctions limiting or requiring discontinuation of certain operations. Strict, joint and several liabilities may be imposed under certain environmental laws, which could cause us to become liable for the conduct of others or for consequences of our own actions that were in compliance with all applicable laws at the time those 35 actions were taken. In addition, claims for damages to persons or property, including natural resources, may result from the environmental and occupational health and workplace safety impacts of our operations. We have been named from time to time as a defendant in litigation related to such matters. In addition, new or additional laws and regulations, new interpretations of existing requirements or changes in enforcement policies could impose unforeseen liabilities, significantly increase compliance costs or result in delays of, or denial of rights to conduct, our development programs. For example, in June 2015, the EPA and the Corps issued a final rule under the CWA defining the scope of the EPA's and the Corps' jurisdiction over WOTUS, which was stayed nationwide in October 2015 pending resolution of several legal challenges. The EPA and the Corps proposed a rule in July 2017 to repeal the WOTUS rule and announced their intent to issue a new rule defining the CWA's jurisdiction. In January 2018, the U.S. Supreme Court issued a decision finding that jurisdiction to hear challenges to the WOTUS rule resides with the federal district courts, which lifted the stay and resulted in a patchwork application of the rule in some states, but not in others. In October 2019, the EPA issued a final rule repealing the WOTUS rule and the repeal rule became effective in December 2019. In April 2020, the EPA and the Corps published the NWPR, which narrows the definition of WOTUS to four categories of jurisdictional waters and includes twelve categories of exclusions, including groundwater. A coalition of states and cities, environmental groups, and agricultural groups have challenged the NWPR and a federal district court in Colorado stayed implementation of the rule. The stay is limited to application of the rule in Colorado; the rule has taken effect in all other states. In addition, in an April 2020 decision defining the scope of the CWA that was handed down just days after the NWPR was published, the U.S. Supreme Court held that, in certain cases, discharges from a point source to groundwater could fall within the scope of the CWA and require a permit. The Court rejected the EPA and Corps’ assertion that groundwater should be totally excluded from the CWA. The Court’s decision is expected to bolster challenges to the NWPR. On January 20, 2021, the Biden Administration announced it will review the NWPR in accordance with the January 20, 2021 Executive Order that revokes President Trump’s Executive Order 13778, which required review and reversal of the WOTUS rule. The EPA and the Corps have requested to stay the litigation over the NWPR during the agencies’ review of the rule. To the extent a rule expands the scope of the CWA's jurisdiction, we could face increased costs and delays with respect to obtaining permits for dredge and fill activities in wetland areas. Such potential regulations or litigation could increase our operating costs, reduce our liquidity, delay or halt our operations or otherwise alter the way we conduct our business, which in turn could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. Further, the discharges of natural gas, NGLs, oil, and other pollutants into the air, soil or water may give rise to significant liabilities on our part to the government and third parties. Regulations related to the protection of wildlife could adversely affect our ability to conduct drilling activities in some of the areas where we operate. Our operations can be adversely affected by regulations designed to protect various wildlife. The designation of previously unprotected species as threatened or endangered in areas where underlying property operations are conducted could cause us to incur increased costs arising from species protection measures or could result in constraints on our exploration and production activities. This limits our ability to operate in those areas and can intensify competition during those months for drilling rigs, oilfield equipment, services, supplies and qualified personnel, which may lead to periodic shortages. These constraints and the resulting shortages or high costs could delay our operations and materially increase our operating and capital costs. Fuel conservation measures, consumer tastes and technological advances could reduce demand for natural gas and oil. Fuel conservation measures, alternative fuel requirements, increasing consumer demand for alternatives to natural gas and oil, technological advances in fuel economy and energy generation devices could reduce demand for natural gas and oil. The impact of the changing demand for natural gas and oil could adversely impact our earnings, cash flows and financial position. Climate change laws and regulations restricting emissions of greenhouse gases could result in increased operating costs and reduced demand for the natural gas, NGLs and oil that we produce while potential physical effects of climate change could disrupt our production and cause us to incur significant costs in preparing for or responding to those effects. In response to findings that emissions of carbon dioxide, methane and other GHGs present an endangerment to public health and the environment, the EPA has adopted regulations under existing provisions of the CAA that, among other things, establish PSD construction and Title V operating permit reviews for certain large stationary sources that are already potential major sources of certain principal, or criteria, pollutant emissions. Facilities required to obtain PSD permits for their GHG emissions also will be required to meet "best available control technology" standards that will be established by the states or, in some cases, by the EPA on a case‑by‑case basis. These EPA rulemakings could adversely affect our operations and restrict or delay our ability to obtain air permits for new or modified sources. In addition, the EPA has adopted rules requiring the monitoring 36 and reporting of GHG emissions from specified onshore and offshore natural gas and oil production sources in the United States on an annual basis, which include certain of our operations. At the state level, several states including Pennsylvania have proceeded with regulation targeting GHG emissions. Such state regulations could impose increased compliance costs on our operations. While Congress has from time to time considered legislation to reduce emissions of GHGs, there has not been significant activity in the form of federal legislation in recent years. In the absence of such federal climate legislation, a number of state and regional efforts have emerged that are aimed at tracking and/or reducing GHG emissions by means of cap-and-trade programs that typically require major sources of GHG emissions, such as electric power plants, to acquire and surrender emission allowances in return for emitting those GHGs. In October 2019, Pennsylvania Governor Tom Wolf signed an Executive Order directing the PADEP to draft regulations establishing a cap-and-trade program under its existing authority to regulate air emissions, with the intent of enabling Pennsylvania to join the RGGI, a multi-state regional cap-and-trade program comprised of several Eastern U.S. states. In September 2020, the Pennsylvania Environmental Quality Board approved promulgation of the RGGI regulation, and a public comment period and hearings regarding the regulation commenced at the end of 2020. Based on the current timeline for implementation, final rulemaking is expected to be sent to the Pennsylvania Environmental Quality Board for review and approval in the fourth quarter of 2021, with the first year of compliance anticipated to begin in 2022. Assuming Pennsylvania ultimately becomes a member of the RGGI in 2022, as currently anticipated, it will result in increased operating costs if we are required to purchase emission allowances in connection with our operations. On an international level, the United States is one of almost 200 nations that, in December 2015, agreed to the Paris Agreement, which calls for countries to set their own GHG emissions targets and be transparent about the measures each country will use to achieve its GHG emissions targets. The Paris Agreement was signed by the United States in April 2016 and entered into force on November 4, 2016; however, the Paris Agreement does not impose any binding obligations on its participants. In August 2017, the U.S. Department of State officially informed the United Nations of the United States' intent to withdraw from the Paris Agreement, with such withdrawal becoming effective in November 2020. However, on January 20, 2021, President Biden issued written notification to the United Nations of the United States’ intention to rejoin the Paris Agreement, which will become effective in 30 days from such date. Although it is not possible at this time to predict how legislation or new regulations that may be adopted to address GHG emissions would impact our business, any such future laws and regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting emissions of GHGs from, our equipment and operations could require us to incur costs to reduce emissions of GHGs associated with our operations. Substantial limitations on GHG emissions could also adversely affect demand for the natural gas, NGLs and oil we produce and lower the value of our reserves. Further, recent activism directed at shifting funding away from companies with energy-related assets could result in limitations or restrictions on certain sources of funding for the energy sector. Moreover, activist shareholders have introduced proposals that may seek to force companies to adopt aggressive emission reduction targets or to shift away from more carbon-intensive activities. While we cannot predict the outcomes of such proposals, they could ultimately make it more difficult to engage in exploration and production activities. Finally, it should be noted that a number of scientists have concluded that increasing concentrations of GHGs in the Earth's atmosphere may produce climate changes that have significant physical effects, such as increased frequency and severity of storms, floods, droughts, and other extreme climatic events; if any such effects were to occur, they have the potential to cause physical damage to our assets or affect the availability of water and thus could have an adverse effect on our exploration and production operations. See "Business-Regulation-Environmental, Health and Safety Regulation" for more information. Risks Associated with Strategic Transactions Entering into strategic transactions may expose us to various risks. We periodically engage in acquisitions, dispositions and other strategic transactions, including joint ventures. These transactions involve various inherent risks, such as our ability to obtain the necessary regulatory and third-party approvals; the timing of and conditions imposed upon us by regulators in connection with such approvals; the assumption of potential environmental or other liabilities; and our ability to realize the benefits expected from the transactions. In addition, various factors, including prevailing market conditions, could negatively impact the benefits we receive from these transactions. Competition for transaction opportunities in our industry is intense and may increase the cost of, or cause us to refrain from, completing transactions. Joint venture arrangements may restrict our operational and corporate flexibility. 37 Moreover, joint venture arrangements involve various risks and uncertainties, such as committing us to fund operating and/or capital expenditures, the timing and amount of which we may have little or partial control over, and our joint venture partners may not satisfy their obligations to the joint venture. Our inability to complete a transaction or to achieve our strategic or financial goals in any transaction could have significant adverse effects on our earnings, cash flows and financial position. Acquisitions may disrupt our current plans or operations and may not be worth what we pay due to uncertainties in evaluating recoverable reserves and other expected benefits, as well as potential liabilities. Successful property acquisitions require an assessment of a number of factors beyond our control. These factors include estimates of recoverable reserves, exploration potential, future natural gas, NGLs and oil prices, operating costs, production taxes and potential environmental and other liabilities. These assessments are complex and inherently imprecise. Our review of the properties we acquire may not reveal all existing or potential problems. In addition, our review may not allow us to fully assess the potential deficiencies of the properties. We do not inspect every well or lease that we acquire, and even when we inspect a well or lease we may not discover structural, subsurface, or environmental problems that may exist or arise. There may be threatened or contemplated claims against the assets or businesses we acquire related to environmental, title, regulatory, tax, contract, litigation or other matters of which we are unaware, which could materially and adversely affect our production, revenues and results of operations. We often assume certain liabilities, and we may not be entitled to contractual indemnification for pre-closing liabilities, including environmental liabilities, and our contractual indemnification may not be effective. At times, we acquire interests in properties on an "as is" basis with limited representations and warranties and limited remedies for breaches of such representations and warranties. In addition, significant acquisitions can change the nature of our operations and business if the acquired properties have substantially different operating and geological characteristics or are in different geographic locations than our existing properties. The Separation and Distribution may subject us to future liabilities. In November 2018, we completed the Separation and Distribution (each defined and discussed in Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements), resulting in the spin-off of Equitrans Midstream, a standalone publicly traded corporation that holds our former midstream business. Pursuant to agreements we entered into with Equitrans Midstream in connection with the Separation, we and Equitrans Midstream are each generally responsible for the obligations and liabilities related to our respective businesses. Pursuant to those agreements, we and Equitrans Midstream each agreed to cross-indemnities principally designed to allocate financial responsibility for the obligations and liabilities of our business to us and those of Equitrans Midstream's business to it. However, third parties, including governmental agencies, could seek to hold us responsible for obligations and liabilities that Equitrans Midstream agreed to retain or assume, and there can be no assurance that the indemnification from Equitrans Midstream will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such obligations and liabilities, or that Equitrans Midstream will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. Additionally, if a court were to determine that the Separation or related transactions were consummated with the actual intent to hinder, delay or defraud current or future creditors or resulted in Equitrans Midstream receiving less than reasonably equivalent value when it was insolvent, or that it was rendered insolvent, inadequately capitalized or unable to pay its debts as they become due, then it is possible that the court could disregard the allocation of obligations and liabilities agreed to between us and Equitrans Midstream, impose substantial obligations and liabilities on us and void some or all of the Separation-related transactions. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. If there is a later determination that the Distribution or certain related transactions are taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes because the facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings underlying the IRS private letter ruling and/or opinion of counsel are incorrect or for any other reason, significant liabilities could be incurred by us, our shareholders or Equitrans Midstream. In connection with the Separation and Distribution, we obtained a private letter ruling from the IRS and an opinion of outside counsel regarding the qualification of the Distribution, together with certain related transactions, as a transaction that is generally tax-free, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code, as amended, and certain other U.S. federal income tax matters relating to the Distribution and certain related transactions. The IRS private letter ruling and the opinion of counsel are based on and rely on, among other things, various facts and assumptions, as well as certain representations, statements and undertakings of us and Equitrans Midstream, including those relating to the past and future conduct of us and Equitrans Midstream. If any of these representations, statements or undertakings is, or becomes, inaccurate or incomplete, or if we or Equitrans Midstream breach any representations or covenants contained in any of the Separation-related agreements and documents or in any documents relating to the IRS private letter 38 ruling and/or the opinion of counsel, we and our shareholders may not be able to rely on the IRS private letter ruling or the opinion of counsel. Notwithstanding receipt of the IRS private letter ruling and the opinion of counsel, the IRS could determine on audit that the Distribution and/or certain related transactions should be treated as taxable transactions for U.S. federal income tax purposes if it determines that any of the representations, assumptions or undertakings upon which the IRS private letter ruling was based are false or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion of counsel that are not covered by the ruling or for other reasons. An opinion of counsel represents the judgment of such counsel and is not binding on the IRS or any court, and the IRS or a court may disagree with the conclusions in such opinion of counsel. Accordingly, notwithstanding receipt of the IRS private letter ruling and the opinion of counsel, there can be no assurance that the IRS will not assert that the Distribution and/or certain related transactions should be treated as taxable transactions or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. In the event the IRS were to prevail with such challenge, we, Equitrans Midstream and our shareholders could be subject to material U.S. federal and state income tax liabilities. In connection with the Separation, we and Equitrans Midstream entered into a tax matters agreement, which described the sharing of any such liabilities between us and Equitrans Midstream. We are a significant shareholder of Equitrans Midstream and the value of our investment in Equitrans Midstream may fluctuate substantially. Following the Separation and Distribution, we retained approximately 19.9% of the outstanding shares of Equitrans Midstream's common stock. On February 26, 2020, we entered into share purchase agreements with Equitrans Midstream to sell approximately 50% of our equity interest in Equitrans Midstream to Equitrans Midstream (the Equitrans Share Exchange) in exchange for a combination of cash and fee relief under our gathering agreements with EQM. We currently own 25,296,026 shares of Equitrans Midstream's common stock. The value of our investment in Equitrans Midstream may be adversely affected by negative changes in its results of operations, cash flows and financial position, which may occur as a result of the many risks attendant with operating in the midstream industry, including loss of gathering and transportation volumes, the effect of laws and regulations on the operation of its business and development of its assets, increased competition, loss of contracted volumes, adverse rate-making decisions, policies and rulings by the FERC, pipeline safety rulemakings initiated or finalized by the Department of Transportation's Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, delays in the timing of, or the failure to complete, expansion projects, lack of access to capital and operating risks and hazards. We intend to dispose of our remaining interest in Equitrans Midstream through one or more divestitures of our shares of Equitrans Midstream's common stock. However, we can offer no assurance that we will be able to complete such disposition or as to the value we will realize. The occurrence of any of these and other risks faced by Equitrans Midstream could adversely affect the value of our investment in Equitrans Midstream. Risks Related to the COVID-19 Pandemic The novel coronavirus, or COVID-19, pandemic has affected and may materially adversely affect, and any future outbreak of any other highly infectious or contagious diseases may materially adversely affect, our operations, financial performance and condition, operating results and cash flows. The COVID-19 pandemic has affected, and may materially adversely affect, our business and financial and operating results. The severity, magnitude and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic is uncertain, rapidly changing and hard to predict. In 2020, the pandemic significantly impacted economic activity and markets around the world, and, in the future, COVID-19 or another similar pandemic could negatively impact our business in numerous ways, including, but not limited to, the following: • our revenue may be reduced if the pandemic results in an economic downturn or recession that leads to a prolonged decrease in the demand for natural gas and, to a lesser extent, NGLs and oil; • our operations may be disrupted or impaired (thus lowering our production level), if a significant portion of our employees or contractors are unable to work due to illness or if our field operations are suspended or temporarily shut-down or restricted due to control measures designed to contain the pandemic; • the operations of our midstream service providers, on whom we rely for the transmission, gathering and processing of a significant portion of our produced natural gas, NGLs and oil, may be disrupted or suspended in response to containing the pandemic, and/or the difficult economic environment may lead to the bankruptcy or closing of the facilities and infrastructure of our midstream service providers, which may result in substantial discounts in the prices 39 we receive for our produced natural gas, NGLs and oil or result in the shut-in of producing wells or the delay or discontinuance of development plans for our properties; and • the disruption and instability in the financial markets and the uncertainty in the general business environment may affect our ability to raise capital or find attractive asset monetization opportunities and successfully execute our Deleveraging Plan within our anticipated timeframe or at all. We believe that our principal areas of operational risk resulting from a pandemic are availability of service providers and supply chain disruption. Active development operations, including drilling and fracking operations, represent the greatest risk for transmission given the number of personnel and contractors on site. While we believe that we are following best practices under COVID-19 guidance, the potential for transmission still exists. In certain instances, it may be necessary or determined advisable for us to delay development operations. To the extent the COVID-19 pandemic adversely affects our business and financial results, it may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks set forth herein, such as those relating to our financial performance, our ability to access capital and credit markets, our credit ratings and debt obligations. The rapid development and fluidity of this situation precludes any prediction as to the ultimate adverse impact of COVID-19 on our business, which will depend on numerous evolving factors and future developments that we are not able to predict, including the length of time that the pandemic continues, its effect on the demand for natural gas, NGLs and oil, the response of the overall economy and the financial markets as well as the effect of governmental actions taken in response to the pandemic. See Item 7A., "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" for further discussion of our exposure to market risks, including the risks associated with our use of derivative contracts to hedge commodity prices.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and the notes thereto included in Item 8., "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data." Consolidated Results of Operations Net loss for 2020 was $967 million, $3.71 per diluted share, an improvement of $255 million compared to net loss for 2019 of $1,222 million, $4.79 per diluted share. The variance was attributable primarily to decreased impairments, the gain on the Equitrans Share Exchange (defined and discussed in Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements), decreased other operating expenses, decreased depreciation and depletion expense and decreased transportation and processing expense, partly offset by decreased operating revenues, increased interest expense and decreased dividend and other income. See Item 7., "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" included in our Annual Report on for the year ended December 31, 2019, which is incorporated herein by reference, for discussion and analysis of consolidated results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2018. See "Sales Volumes and Revenues" and "Operating Expenses" for discussions of items affecting operating income and "Other Income Statement Items" for a discussion of other income statement items. See "Investing Activities" under "Capital Resources and Liquidity" for a discussion of capital expenditures. Average Realized Price Reconciliation The following table presents detailed natural gas and liquids operational information to assist in the understanding of our consolidated operations, including the calculation of our average realized price ($/Mcfe), which is based on adjusted operating revenues, a non-GAAP supplemental financial measure. Adjusted operating revenues is presented because it is an important measure we use to evaluate period-to-period comparisons of earnings trends. Adjusted operating revenues should not be considered as an alternative to total operating revenues. See "Non-GAAP Financial Measures Reconciliation" for a reconciliation of adjusted operating revenues with total operating revenues, the most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with GAAP. 45 (a) Our volume weighted NYMEX natural gas price (actual average NYMEX natural gas price ($/MMBtu)) was $2.08 and $2.63 for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. (b) Basis represents the difference between the ultimate sales price for natural gas and the NYMEX natural gas price. (c) NGLs, ethane and oil were converted to Mcfe at a rate of six Mcfe per barrel. (d) Total natural gas and liquids sales, including cash settled derivatives, is also referred to in this report as adjusted operating revenues, a non-GAAP supplemental financial measure. 46 Non-GAAP Financial Measures Reconciliation The table below reconciles adjusted operating revenues, a non-GAAP supplemental financial measure, with total operating revenues, its most directly comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with GAAP. Adjusted operating revenues (also referred to in this report as total natural gas and liquids sales, including cash settled derivatives) is presented because it is an important measure we use to evaluate period-to-period comparisons of earnings trends. Adjusted operating revenues excludes the revenue impacts of changes in the fair value of derivative instruments prior to settlement and net marketing services and other. We use adjusted operating revenues to evaluate earnings trends because, as a result of the measure's exclusion of the often-volatile changes in the fair value of derivative instruments prior to settlement, the measure reflects only the impact of settled derivative contracts. Net marketing services and other primarily includes the costs of, and recoveries on, pipeline capacity releases. Because we consider net marketing services and other to be unrelated to our natural gas and liquids production activities, adjusted operating revenues excludes net marketing services and other. We believe that adjusted operating revenues provides useful information to investors for evaluating period-to-period comparisons of earnings trends. Sales Volumes and Revenues (a) Includes Upper Devonian wells. (b) NGLs, ethane and oil were converted to Mcfe at a rate of six Mcfe per barrel. Sales of natural gas, NGLs and oil. Sales of natural gas, NGLs and oil decreased for 2020 compared to 2019 due to a lower average realized price and lower sales volumes. Average realized price decreased due to lower NYMEX and unfavorable differential, partly offset by higher cash settled derivatives. For 2020 and 2019, we received $898.8 million and $266.3 million, respectively, of net cash settlements, including net premiums received, on derivatives not designated as hedges, which are included in average realized price but may not be included in operating revenues. Sales volumes for 2020 decreased compared 47 to 2019 due primarily to our strategic decisions to temporarily curtail production beginning in May 2020 and ending in November 2020 (the Strategic Production Curtailments) which resulted in a decrease to sales volumes of approximately 46 Bcfe. Sales volumes for 2020 also decreased compared to 2019 by 16 Bcfe as a result of the 2020 Divestitures (defined in Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). These decreases were partly offset by operational efficiencies realized throughout the year from increased production up-time and positively impacted sales volumes as well as an increase of approximately 12 Bcfe due to the Chevron Acquisition. Gain on derivatives not designated as hedges. For 2020, we recognized a gain on derivatives not designated as hedges of $400.2 million compared to $616.6 million for 2019. The gains for 2020 and 2019 were related primarily to decreases in the fair market value of our NYMEX swaps and options due to increases in NYMEX forward prices. Operating Expenses The following table presents information on our production-related operating expenses. Gathering. Gathering expense increased on an absolute and per Mcfe basis for 2020 compared to 2019 due to a higher gathering rate structure as a result of the Consolidated GGA (defined in Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements ) , partly offset by lower gathered volumes as a result of the Strategic Production Curtailments. We expect to realize fee relief and a lower gathering rate structure from the Consolidated GGA beginning on the Mountain Valley Pipeline in-service date. Transmission. Transmission expense decreased on an absolute and per Mcfe basis for 2020 compared to 2019 due primarily to released capacity on, and credits received from, the Texas Eastern Transmission Pipeline, partly offset by higher costs associated with additional capacity on the Tennessee Gas Pipeline. LOE. LOE increased on an absolute and per Mcfe basis for 2020 compared to 2019 due primarily to higher repairs and maintenance costs as a result of our increased focus on optimizing production from currently producing wells as well as higher salt water disposal costs. 48 Production taxes. Production taxes decreased on an absolute and per Mcfe basis for 2020 compared to 2019 due primarily to lower severance taxes and Pennsylvania impact fees as a result of lower commodity prices. Depreciation and depletion. Production depletion decreased on an absolute and per Mcfe basis for 2020 compared to 2019 due primarily to a lower annual depletion rate and lower volumes. Amortization of intangible assets. Amortization of intangible assets for 2020 was $26.0 million compared to $35.9 million for 2019. The decrease was due primarily to the impairment of intangible assets recognized in the third quarter of 2019 as described below, which decreased the amortization rate. The intangible assets were fully amortized in November 2020. Impairment/loss on sale/exchange of long-lived assets . During 2020, we recognized a loss on sale/exchange of long-lived assets of $100.7 million, of which $61.6 million related to the 2020 Asset Exchange Transactions (defined and discussed in Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements) and $39.1 million related to asset sales (described in Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). During the fourth quarter of 2019, we recorded impairment of long-lived assets of $1,124.4 million, of which $1,035.7 million was associated with our non-strategic assets located in the Ohio Utica and $88.7 million was associated with our Pennsylvania and West Virginia Utica assets. The impairment was due primarily to depressed natural gas prices and changes in our development strategy. During the third quarter of 2019, we recorded a loss on exchange of long-lived assets of $13.9 million related to the 2019 Asset Exchange Transaction (defined and discussed in Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the 2019 impairment test. Impairment of intangible and other assets. During the fourth quarter of 2020, we recognized impairment of $34.7 million, of which $22.8 million related to our assessment that the fair values of certain of our right-of-use lease assets were less than their carrying values and $11.9 million related to impairments of certain non-operating receivables as a result of expected credit losses. During the third quarter of 2019, we recognized impairment of $15.4 million of intangible assets associated with non-compete agreements for former Rice Energy Inc. executives who are now our employees. Impairment and expiration of leases. Impairment and expiration of leases for 2020 was $306.7 million compared to $556.4 million for 2019. The decrease was driven by increased lease expirations in 2019 due to our change in strategic focus to core development opportunities as well as changes in market conditions. Other operating expenses. Other operating expenses of $28.5 million in 2020 were related primarily to transactions, changes in legal reserves, including settlements and reorganization. Other operating expenses of $199.4 million in 2019 were related primarily to reorganization, due to reductions in workforce, which resulted in the recognition of severance and other termination benefits, changes in legal reserves, including settlements, contract terminations and the proxy contest. See Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Other Income Statement Items Gain on Equitrans Share Exchange. During the first quarter of 2020, we recognized a gain on the Equitrans Share Exchange as described in Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Loss on investment in Equitrans Midstream Corporation. Our investment in Equitrans Midstream is recorded at fair value by multiplying the closing stock price of Equitrans Midstream's common stock by the number of shares of Equitrans Midstream's common stock that we own. Changes in fair value are recorded in loss on investment in Equitrans Midstream Corporation in the Statements of Consolidated Operations. Our investment in Equitrans Midstream fluctuates with changes in Equitrans Midstream's stock price, which was $8.04 and $13.36 as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Note, the effect of the sale of 50% of our shares of Equitrans Midstream's common stock was recorded as a reduction to the investment in Equitrans Midstream in conjunction with our recognition of the gain on the Equitrans Share Exchange. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Dividend and other income. The decrease in 2020 as compared to 2019 is due primarily to lower dividends received from our investment in Equitrans Midstream driven by the decrease in the number of shares of Equitrans Midstream's common stock that we own. Loss on debt extinguishment. During 2020, we recognized a loss on debt extinguishment related to the repayment of all or a portion of our 4.875% senior notes, 2.50% senior notes, 3.00% senior notes, floating rate notes and Term Loan Facility (defined and discussed in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 49 Interest expense. Interest expense increased for 2020 compared to 2019 due to increased interest incurred on new debt issued in 2020 as well as interest incurred on letters of credit issued in 2020. These increases were partly offset by lower interest incurred due to the repayment of all or a portion of our 8.125% senior notes, 4.875% senior notes, floating rate notes and 2.50% senior notes and decreased borrowings on our credit facility. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The adjusted interest rate under the Adjustable Rate Notes (defined and discussed in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements) cannot exceed 2% of the original interest rate first set forth on the face of the Adjustable Rate Notes; however, if our credit ratings improve, the interest rate under the Adjustable Rate Notes could be reduced to as low as the original interest rate set forth on the face of the Adjustable Rate Notes. Income tax benefit. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Impairment of Oil and Gas Properties See "Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates" and Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of our accounting policies and significant assumptions related to impairment of our oil and gas properties. See also Item 1A., "Risk Factors – Natural gas, NGLs and oil price declines, and changes in our development strategy, have resulted in impairment of certain of our assets. Future declines in commodity prices, increases in operating costs or adverse changes in well performance or additional changes in our development strategy may result in additional write-downs of the carrying amounts of our assets, including long-lived intangible assets, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations in future periods." Capital Resources and Liquidity Although we cannot provide any assurance, we believe cash flows from operating activities and availability under our credit facility should be sufficient to meet our cash requirements inclusive of, but not limited to, normal operating needs, debt service obligations, planned capital expenditures and commitments for at least the next twelve months and, based on current expectations, for the long-term. Credit Facility We primarily use borrowings under our credit facility to fund working capital needs, timing differences between capital expenditures and other cash uses and cash flows from operating activities, margin deposit requirements on our derivative instruments and credit assurance requirements, including collateral, in support of our midstream service contracts, joint venture arrangements or construction contracts. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of our credit facility. Known Contractual and Other Obligations; Planned Capital Expenditures Purchase obligations. We have commitments for demand charges under existing long-term contracts and binding precedent agreements with various pipelines, some of which extend up to 20 years or longer. We have entered into agreements to release some of our capacity under these long-term contracts. We also have commitments for processing capacity in order to extract heavier liquid hydrocarbons from the natural gas stream. Aggregate future payments for these items as of December 31, 2020 were $24.8 billion, composed of $1.3 billion in 2021, $1.7 billion in 2022, $1.8 billion in 2023, $1.9 billion in 2024, $1.8 billion in 2025 and $16.3 billion primarily in 2026 through 2042. We also have commitments to purchase equipment, materials, frac sand for use as a proppant in our hydraulic fracturing operations and minimum volume commitments associated with certain water agreements. As of December 31, 2020, future commitments under these contracts were $96.5 million in 2021 and $14.3 million in 2022. Contractual Commitments. We have contractual commitments under our debt agreements including interest payments and principal repayments. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion including the timing of principal repayments. Unrecognized Tax Benefits. As discussed in Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, we had a total reserve for unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2020 of $181.2 million, of which $90.3 million is offset against deferred tax assets for general business tax credit carryforwards and NOLs. We are currently unable to make reasonably reliable estimates of the period of cash settlement of these potential liabilities with taxing authorities. 50 Planned Capital Expenditures. In 2021, we expect to spend approximately $1.1 to $1.2 billion in total capital expenditures, excluding amounts attributable to noncontrolling interests. Because we are the operator of a high percentage of our acreage, the amount and timing of these capital expenditures are largely discretionary. We could choose to defer a portion of these planned 2021 capital expenditures depending on a variety of factors, including prevailing and anticipated prices for natural gas, NGLs and oil; the availability of necessary equipment, infrastructure and capital; the receipt and timing of required regulatory permits and approvals; and drilling, completion and acquisition costs. Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities was $1,538 million for 2020 compared to $1,852 million for 2019. The decrease was due primarily to lower cash operating revenues and unfavorable timing of working capital payments, partly offset by increased cash settlements received on derivatives not designated as hedges, income tax refunds, plus interest, received of $440 million during 2020 and lower cash operating expenses. Our cash flows from operating activities are affected by movements in the market price for commodities. We are unable to predict such movements outside of the current market view as reflected in forward strip pricing. Refer to Item 1A., "Risk Factors – Natural gas, NGLs and oil price volatility, or a prolonged period of low natural gas, NGLs and oil prices, may have an adverse effect on our revenue, profitability, future rate of growth, liquidity and financial position." for further information. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities was $1,556 million for 2020 compared to $1,601 million for 2019. The decrease was due to lower capital expenditures as a result of our change in strategic focus from production growth to capital efficiency as well as cash received from asset sales and the Equitrans Share Exchange. The decrease was partly offset by cash paid for acquisitions as described in Note 6 . The following table summarizes our capital expenditures. (a) Capital expenditures attributable to noncontrolling interests were $4.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. (b) Represents the net impact of non-cash capital expenditures, including capitalized share-based compensation costs, the effect of timing of receivables from working interest partners and accrued capital expenditures. The impact of accrued capital expenditures includes the reversal of the prior period accrual as well as the current period estimate. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities was $32 million for 2020 compared to net cash used in financing activities of $249 million for 2019. For 2020, the primary source of financing cash flows was net proceeds from the issuance of debt and equity and the primary use of financing cash flows was net repayments of debt. For 2019, the primary uses of financing cash flows were net repayments of debt and credit facility borrowings, and the primary source of financing cash flows was net proceeds from borrowings on the Term Loan Facility. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of our debt. On March 26, 2020, we announced the suspension of our quarterly cash dividend on our common stock for purposes of accelerating cash flow to be used for our Deleveraging Plan. 51 Depending on our actual and anticipated sources and uses of liquidity, prevailing market conditions and other factors, we may from time to time seek to retire or repurchase our outstanding debt or equity securities through cash purchases in the open market or privately negotiated transactions. The amounts involved in any such transactions may be material. Additionally, we plan to dispose of our remaining retained shares of Equitrans Midstream's common stock and use the proceeds to reduce our debt. See Item 7., "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" included in our Annual Report on for the year ended December 31, 2019, which is incorporated herein by reference, for discussion and analysis of operating, investing and financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2018. Security Ratings and Financing Triggers The table below reflects the credit ratings and rating outlooks assigned to our debt instruments at February 12, 2021. Our credit ratings and rating outlooks are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency, and each rating should be evaluated independent from any other rating. We cannot ensure that a rating will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be lowered or withdrawn by a rating agency if, in the rating agency's judgment, circumstances so warrant. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of what is deemed investment grade. Changes in credit ratings may affect our access to the capital markets, the cost of short-term debt through interest rates and fees under our lines of credit, the interest rate on the Adjustable Rate Notes, the rates available on new long-term debt, our pool of investors and funding sources, the borrowing costs and margin deposit requirements on our OTC derivative instruments and credit assurance requirements, including collateral, in support of our midstream service contracts, joint venture arrangements or construction contracts. Margin deposits on our OTC derivative instruments are also subject to factors other than credit rating, such as natural gas prices and credit thresholds set forth in the agreements between us and hedging counterparties. As of February 12, 2021, we had sufficient unused borrowing capacity, net of letters of credit, under our credit facility to satisfy any requests for margin deposit or other collateral that our counterparties are permitted to request of us pursuant to our OTC derivative instruments, midstream services contracts and other contracts. As of February 12, 2021, such assurances could be up to approximately $1.0 billion, inclusive of letters of credit, OTC derivative instrument margin deposits and other collateral posted of approximately $0.9 billion in the aggregate. See Notes 3 and 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information. Our debt agreements and other financial obligations contain various provisions that, if not complied with, could result in default or event of default under our credit facility, mandatory partial or full repayment of amounts outstanding, reduced loan capacity or other similar actions. The most significant covenants and events of default under the debt agreements relate to maintenance of a debt-to-total capitalization ratio, limitations on transactions with affiliates, insolvency events, nonpayment of scheduled principal or interest payments, acceleration of other financial obligations and change of control provisions. Our credit facility contains financial covenants that require us to have a total debt-to-total capitalization ratio no greater than 65%. The calculation of this ratio excludes the effects of accumulated other comprehensive income. As of December 31, 2020, we were in compliance with all debt provisions and covenants. See Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of the borrowings under our credit facility. Commodity Risk Management The substantial majority of our commodity risk management program is related to hedging sales of our produced natural gas. The overall objective of our hedging program is to protect cash flows from undue exposure to the risk of changing commodity prices. The derivative commodity instruments that we use are primarily swap, collar and option agreements. The 52 following table summarizes the approximate volumes and prices of our NYMEX hedge positions through 2024 as of February 12, 2021. (a) Full year 2021. (b) The difference between the fixed price and NYMEX price is included in average differential presented in our price reconciliation in the "Average Realized Price Reconciliation." The fixed price natural gas sales agreements can be physically or financially settled. For 2021, 2022, 2023 and 2024, we have natural gas sales agreements for approximately 18 MMDth, 18 MMDth, 88 MMDth and 11 MMDth, respectively, that include average NYMEX ceiling prices of $3.17, $3.17, $2.84 and $3.21, respectively. We have also entered into derivative instruments to hedge basis. We may use other contractual agreements to implement our commodity hedging strategy from time to time. During 2020, we purchased $47 million of net options with the primary purpose of reducing future NYMEX based payments that could be due in 2021, 2022 and 2023 to Equitrans Midstream related to the Henry Hub Cash Bonus (defined and discussed in Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements) provided for by the Consolidated GGA. See Item 7A., "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk" and Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of our hedging program. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of our guarantees. Commitments and Contingencies In the ordinary course of business, various legal and regulatory claims and proceedings are pending or threatened against us. While the amounts claimed may be substantial, we are unable to predict with certainty the ultimate outcome of such claims and proceedings. We accrue legal and other direct costs related to loss contingencies when actually incurred. We have established reserves that we believe to be appropriate for pending matters and, after consultation with counsel and giving appropriate consideration to available insurance, we believe that the ultimate outcome of any matter currently pending against us will not materially affect our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. See Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of our commitments and contingencies. See Item 3., "Legal Proceedings." Recently Issued Accounting Standards Our recently issued accounting standards are described in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Management's discussion and analysis of the Consolidated Financial Statements and results of operations are based on our Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and 53 expenses and the related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. The following critical accounting policies, which were reviewed by the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors (the Audit Committee), relate to our more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements. Actual results could differ from our estimates. Accounting for Gas, NGL and Oil Producing Activities. We use the successful efforts method of accounting for our oil and gas producing activities. The carrying values of our proved oil and gas properties are reviewed for impairment when events or circumstances indicate that the remaining carrying value may not be recoverable. To determine whether impairment of our oil and gas properties has occurred, we compare the estimated expected undiscounted future cash flows to the carrying values of those properties. Estimated future cash flows are based on proved and, if determined reasonable by management, risk-adjusted probable reserves and assumptions generally consistent with the assumptions used by us for internal planning and budgeting purposes, including, among other things, the intended use of the asset, anticipated production from reserves, future market prices for natural gas, NGLs and oil adjusted for basis differentials, future operating costs and inflation. Proved oil and gas properties that have carrying amounts in excess of estimated future undiscounted cash flows are written down to fair value, which is estimated by discounting the estimated future cash flows using discount rates and other assumptions that marketplace participants would use in their fair value estimates. Capitalized costs of unproved oil and gas properties are evaluated for recoverability on a prospective basis at least annually. Indicators of potential impairment include changes due to economic factors, potential shifts in business strategy and historical experience. The likelihood of an impairment of unproved oil and gas properties increases as the expiration of a lease term approaches and drilling activity has not commenced. If we do not intend to drill on the property prior to expiration of the lease or do not have the intent and ability to extend, renew, trade or sell the lease prior to expiration, impairment expense is recorded. We believe accounting for gas, NGL and oil producing activities is a "critical accounting estimate" because the evaluations of impairment of proved properties involve significant judgment about future events, such as future sales prices of natural gas and NGLs and future production costs, as well as the amount of natural gas and NGLs recorded and timing of recoveries. Significant changes in these estimates could result in the costs of our proved and unproved properties not being recoverable; therefore, we would be required to recognize impairment. See "Impairment of Oil and Gas Properties" and Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on our impairments of proved and unproved oil and gas properties. Oil and Gas Reserves. Proved oil and gas reserves, as defined by SEC Regulation S-X Rule 4-10, are those quantities of oil and gas that, by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible from a given date forward from known reservoirs and under existing economic conditions, operating methods and government regulations prior to the time at which contracts providing the right to operate expire unless evidence indicates that renewal is reasonably certain regardless of whether deterministic or probabilistic methods are used for the estimation. Our estimates of proved reserves are reassessed annually using geological, reservoir and production performance data. Reserve estimates are prepared by our engineers and audited by independent engineers. Revisions may result from changes in, among other things, reservoir performance, development plans, prices, operating costs, economic conditions and governmental restrictions. Decreases in prices, for example, may cause a reduction in certain proved reserves due to reaching economic limits sooner. A material change in the estimated volumes of reserves could have an impact on the depletion rate calculation and our Consolidated Financial Statements. We estimate future net cash flows from natural gas, NGLs and crude oil reserves based on selling prices and costs using a twelve-month average price, which is calculated as the unweighted arithmetic average of the first-day-of-the-month price for each month within the twelve-month period and, as such, is subject to change in subsequent periods. Operating costs, production and ad valorem taxes and future development costs are based on current costs with no escalation. Income tax expense is based on future statutory tax rates and tax deductions and credits available under current laws. We believe oil and gas reserves is a "critical accounting estimate" because we must periodically reevaluate proved reserves along with estimates of future production rates, production costs and the timing of development expenditures. Future results of operations and the strength of our Consolidated Balance Sheet for any quarterly or annual period could be materially affected by changes in our assumptions. Significant changes in these estimates could result in a change to our estimated reserves, which could lead to a material change to our production depletion expense. See "Impairment of Oil and Gas Properties" for additional information on our oil and gas reserves. 54 Income Taxes. We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been included in our Consolidated Financial Statements or tax returns. We have recorded deferred tax assets resulting from federal and state NOL carryforwards, an AMT credit carryforward, other federal tax credit carryforwards, unrealized capacity contract losses, incentive compensation and investments in securities. We have established a valuation allowance against a portion of the deferred tax assets related primarily to federal and state NOL carryforwards and our investment in Equitrans Midstream because we believe it is more likely than not that those deferred tax assets will not be fully realized. We established a valuation allowance against the state and part of the federal deferred tax asset related to our investment in Equitrans Midstream because the fair value loss is not expected to be fully realized for tax purposes due to capital loss limitations. No other significant valuation allowances have been established as we believe that future sources of taxable income, reversing temporary differences and other tax planning strategies will be sufficient to realize the deferred tax assets. Changes to our valuation allowance would impact our income tax expense and net income in the period in which such a determination is made. We estimate the amount of financial statement benefit recorded for uncertain tax positions. See Note 9 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. We believe income taxes are "critical accounting estimates" because we must assess the likelihood that our deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income and exercise judgment on the amount of financial statement benefit recorded for uncertain tax positions. When evaluating whether or not a valuation allowance should be established, we exercise judgment on whether it is more likely than not (a likelihood of more than 50%) that a portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. To determine whether a valuation allowance is needed, we consider all available evidence, both positive and negative, including carrybacks, tax planning strategies, reversals of deferred tax assets and liabilities and forecasted future taxable income. To determine the amount of financial statement benefit recorded for uncertain tax positions, we consider the amounts and probabilities of outcomes that could be realized upon ultimate settlement of an uncertain tax position using facts, circumstances and information available at the reporting date. To the extent that a valuation allowance or uncertain tax position is established or increased or decreased during a period, we record an expense or benefit in income tax expense in our Statements of Consolidated Operations. Future results of operations for any quarterly or annual period could be materially affected by changes in our assumptions. A change to future taxable income or tax planning strategies could impact our ability to utilize deferred tax assets, which would increase or decrease our income tax expense and taxes paid. Derivative Instruments. We enter into derivative commodity instrument contracts primarily to reduce exposure to commodity price risk associated with future sales of natural gas production. We estimate the fair value of our financial instruments using quoted market prices when available. If quoted market prices are not available, the fair value is based on models that use market-based parameters, including forward curves, discount rates, volatilities and nonperformance risk, as inputs. Nonperformance risk considers the effect of our credit standing on the fair value of liabilities and the effect of the counterparty's credit standing on the fair value of assets. We estimate nonperformance risk by analyzing publicly available market information, including a comparison of the yield on debt instruments with credit ratings similar to our credit rating or the counterparty's credit rating and the yield on a risk-free instrument. The values reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements change as these estimates are revised to reflect actual results or as market conditions or other factors, many of which are beyond our control, change. We believe derivative instruments are "critical accounting estimates" because our financial condition and results of operations can be significantly impacted by changes in the market value of our derivative instruments due to the volatility of both NYMEX natural gas prices and basis. Future results of operations for any quarterly or annual period could be materially affected by changes in our assumptions. Refer to Item 7A., "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk" for discussion of a hypothetical increase or decrease of 10% in the market price of natural gas. Contingencies and Asset Retirement Obligations. We are involved in various legal and regulatory proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business. We record a liability for contingencies based on our assessment that a loss is probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. We consider many factors in making these assessments, including historical experience and matter specifics. Estimates are developed in consultation with legal counsel and are based on an analysis of potential results. 55 We accrue a liability for asset retirement obligations based on an estimate of the amount and timing of settlement. For oil and gas wells, the fair value of our plugging and abandonment obligations is recorded at the time the obligation is incurred, which is typically at the time the well is spud. We believe contingencies and asset retirement obligations are "critical accounting estimates" because we must assess the probability of loss related to contingencies and the expected amount and timing of asset retirement obligation settlement. In addition, we must determine the estimated present value of future liabilities. Future results of operations for any quarterly or annual period could be materially affected by changes in our assumptions. If we incur losses related to contingencies that are higher than we expect, we could incur additional costs to settle such obligations. If the expected amount and timing of our asset retirement obligations change, we will be required to adjust the carrying value of our liabilities in future periods. Contract Asset. In the first quarter of 2020, we entered into two share purchase agreements with Equitrans Midstream to sell to Equitrans Midstream 50% of our ownership of Equitrans Midstream's common stock in exchange for a combination of cash and rate relief under certain of our gathering agreements with EQM, an affiliate of Equitrans Midstream. The rate relief was effected through the execution the Consolidated GGA (defined and discussed in Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). We recorded a contract asset representing the estimated fair value of the rate relief provided by the Consolidated GGA. Key assumptions used in the fair value calculation included an estimated production volume forecast, a market-based discount rate and a probability-weighted estimate of the in-service date of the Mountain Valley Pipeline. Beginning with the Mountain Valley Pipeline in-service date, we will recognize amortization of the contract asset over a period of approximately four years in a manner consistent with the expected timing of our realization of the economic benefits of the rate relief provided by the Consolidated GGA. We believe the Consolidated GGA contract asset is a "critical accounting estimate" because the assumptions used in the valuation of the contract asset involved significant judgment. Future results of operations for any quarterly or annual period could be materially affected by changes in our assumptions. A change in the estimated production volume forecast, the market-based discount rate or the probability-weighted estimate of the in-service date of the Mountain Valley Pipeline could have resulted in a change in the valuation of the contract asset. Convertible Notes. In the second quarter of 2020, we issued the Convertible Notes (defined and discussed in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). At issuance, we separated the Convertible Notes into liability and equity components. The carrying amount of the liability component was calculated by measuring the fair value of similar debt instruments that do not have associated convertible features. The carrying amount of the equity component, representing the conversion option, was determined by deducting the fair value of the liability component from the principal value of the Convertible Notes. The equity component is not remeasured as long as it continues to meet the condition for equity classification. The excess of the principal amount of the liability component over its carrying amount (the debt discount) will be amortized to interest expense over the term of the Convertible Notes using the effective interest rate method. Issuance costs were allocated to the liability and equity components of the Convertible Notes based on their relative fair values. In connection with the Convertible Notes offering, we entered into the Capped Call Transactions (defined and discussed in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements). The Capped Call Transactions are separate from the Convertible Notes. The Capped Call Transactions were recorded in shareholders' equity and were not accounted for as derivatives. The cost to purchase the Capped Call Transactions was recorded as a reduction to equity and will not be remeasured. Upon conversion of the Convertible Notes, we intend to use a combined settlement approach to satisfy our settlement obligation by paying or delivering to holders of the Convertible Notes cash equal to the principal amount of the obligation and EQT common stock for amounts that exceed the principal amount of the obligation. As such, we used the treasury stock method for the diluted earnings per share (EPS) calculation, and there is no adjustment to the diluted EPS numerator for the cash-settled portion of the instrument. We believe the accounting complexity of the Convertible Notes is a "critical accounting estimate" because we used judgment to determine the balance sheet classification, to determine the treatment of the Capped Call Transactions and to determine the existence of any derivatives that may require separate accounting under applicable accounting guidance. Future results of operations for any quarterly or annual period could be materially affected by changes in our assumptions. Business Combinations. Accounting for a business combination requires a company to record the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired at fair value. 56 In the fourth quarter of 2020, we completed the Chevron Acquisition. The most significant assumptions used in accounting for the Chevron Acquisition include those used to estimate the fair value of the oil and gas properties acquired, the acquired investment in midstream gathering assets and acquired contract liabilities. We calculated the fair value of the acquired proved oil and gas properties, including in-process wells, using a risk-adjusted after-tax discounted cash flow analysis that was based on the following key assumptions: future commodity prices, projections of estimated quantities of reserves, estimated future rates of production, projected reserve recovery factors, timing and amount of future development and operating costs and a weighted average cost of capital. We calculated the fair value of the acquired unproved properties using the guideline transaction method that was based on the following key assumptions: future development plans from a market participant perspective and value per undeveloped acre. We calculated the fair value of our investment in the midstream gathering assets primarily using a discounted cash flow analysis that was based on the following key assumptions: projected revenues, expenses and capital expenditures. We calculated the fair value of acquired contract liabilities using estimated future volumes and annual contract commitments calculated on a discounted basis that was based on the following key assumptions: estimated future volumes and market participant cost of debt. We believe business combinations are "critical accounting estimates" because the valuation of acquired assets and liabilities involves significant judgment about future events. Future results of operations for any quarterly or annual period could be materially affected by changes in our assumptions.