********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

See “ RISK FACTORS SUMMARY ” in Part I, Item 1 for a summary of Entergy’s and the Registrant Subsidiaries’ risk factors. Investors should review carefully the following risk factors and the other information in this Form 10-K.  The risks that Entergy faces are not limited to those in this section.  There may be additional risks and uncertainties (either currently unknown or not currently believed to be material) that could adversely affect Entergy’s business, financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity.  See “ FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION .” Utility Regulatory Risks (Entergy Corporation, Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, Entergy New Orleans, Entergy Texas, and System Energy) The terms and conditions of service, including electric and gas rates, of the Utility operating companies and System Energy are determined through regulatory approval proceedings that can be lengthy and subject to appeal, potentially resulting in delays in effecting rate changes, lengthy litigation, the risk of disallowance of recovery of certain costs, and uncertainty as to ultimate results. The Utility operating companies are regulated on a cost-of-service and rate of return basis and are subject to statutes and regulatory commission rules and procedures.  The rates that the Utility operating companies and System Energy charge reflect their capital expenditures, operations and maintenance costs, allowed rates of return, financing costs, and related costs of service.  These rates significantly influence the financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity of Entergy and each of the Utility operating companies and System Energy.  These rates are determined in regulatory proceedings and are subject to periodic regulatory review and adjustment, including adjustment upon the initiative of a regulator or, in some cases, affected stakeholders.  Regulators in a future rate proceeding may alter the timing or amount of certain costs for which recovery is allowed or modify the current authorized rate of return.  Rate refunds may also be required, subject to applicable law. In addition, regulators have initiated and may initiate additional proceedings to investigate the prudence of costs in the Utility operating companies’ and System Energy’s base rates and examine, among other things, the reasonableness or prudence of the companies’ operation and maintenance practices, level of expenditures (including storm costs and costs associated with capital projects), allowed rates of return and rate base, proposed resource acquisitions, and previously incurred capital expenditures that the operating companies seek to place in rates.  The regulators may disallow costs subject to their jurisdiction found not to have been prudently incurred or found not to have been incurred in compliance with applicable tariffs, creating some risk to the ultimate recovery of those costs.  Regulatory proceedings relating to rates and other matters typically involve multiple parties seeking to limit or reduce rates.  Traditional base rate proceedings, as opposed to formula rate plans, generally have long timelines, are primarily based on historical costs, and may or may not be limited in scope or duration by statute.  The length of these base rate proceedings can cause the Utility operating companies and System Energy to experience regulatory lag in recovering costs through rates, such that the Utility operating companies may not fully recover all costs during the rate effective period and may, therefore, earn less than their allowed returns.  Decisions are typically subject to appeal, potentially leading to additional uncertainty associated with rate case proceedings.  For a discussion of such appeals and related litigation for both the Utility operating companies and System Energy, see Note 2 to the financial statements. The Utility operating companies have large customer and stakeholder bases and, as a result, could be the subject of public criticism or adverse publicity focused on issues including, but not limited to, the operation and maintenance of their assets and infrastructure, including with respect to climate or environmental matters, their preparedness for major storms or other extreme weather events and/or the time it takes to restore service after such 285 Part I Item 1A, 1B, and 1C Entergy Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy events, the quality of their customer service, including timely and accurate billing practices and ability to resolve customer complaints, and the reasonableness of the cost of their service.  Criticism or adverse publicity of this nature could render legislatures and other governing bodies, public service commissions and other regulatory authorities, and government officials less likely to view the applicable operating company in a favorable light and could potentially negatively affect legislative or regulatory processes or outcomes, as well as lead to increased regulatory oversight or more stringent legislative or regulatory requirements or other legislation or regulatory actions that adversely affect the Utility operating companies. The Utility operating companies and System Energy, and the energy industry as a whole, have experienced a period of rising costs and investments and an upward trend in spending, especially with respect to infrastructure investments, which is likely to continue in the foreseeable future and could result in more frequent rate cases and requests for, and the continuation of, cost recovery mechanisms, all of which could face resistance from customers and other stakeholders especially in a rising cost environment, whether due to inflation or high fuel prices or otherwise, and/or in periods of economic decline or hardship.  Significant increases in costs could increase financing needs and otherwise adversely affect Entergy, the Utility operating companies, and System Energy’s business, financial position, results of operation, or cash flows.  For information regarding rate case proceedings and formula rate plans applicable to the Utility operating companies, see Note 2 to the financial statements. Changes to state or federal legislation or regulation affecting electric generation, electric and natural gas transmission, distribution, and related activities could adversely affect Entergy and the Utility operating companies’ financial position, results of operations, or cash flows and their utility businesses. If legislative and regulatory structures evolve in a manner that erodes the Utility operating companies’ exclusive rights to serve their regulated customers, such as through “retail open access” or otherwise, they could lose customers and sales and their results of operations, financial position, or cash flows could be materially affected.  Additionally, technological advances in energy efficiency and distributed energy resources are reducing the costs of these technologies and, together with ongoing state and federal subsidies, the increasing penetration of these technologies could result in reduced sales by the Utility operating companies.  Such loss of sales, due to the methodology used to determine cost of service rates or otherwise, could put upward pressure on rates, possibly resulting in adverse regulatory actions to mitigate such effects on rates.  Further, the failure of regulatory structures to evolve to accommodate the changing needs and desires of customers with respect to the sourcing and use of electricity also could diminish sales by the operating companies.  Entergy and the Utility operating companies cannot predict if or when they may be subject to changes in legislation or regulation, or the extent and timing of reductions of the cost of distributed energy resources, nor can they predict the impact of these changes on their results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. The Utility operating companies recover fuel, purchased power, and associated costs through rate mechanisms that are subject to risks of delay or disallowance in regulatory proceedings, and sudden or prolonged increases in fuel and purchased power costs could lead to increased customer arrearages or bad debt expenses. The Utility operating companies recover their fuel, purchased power, and associated costs from their customers through rate mechanisms subject to periodic regulatory review and adjustment.  Because regulatory review can result in the disallowance of incurred costs found not to have been prudently incurred or not reflected in rates as permitted by approved rate schedules and accounting rules, including the cost of replacement power purchased when generators experience outages or when planned outages are extended, with the possibility of refunds to ratepayers, there exists some risk to the ultimate recovery of those costs, particularly when there are substantial or sudden increases in such costs.  Regulators also may initiate proceedings to investigate the continued usage or the adequacy and operation of the fuel and purchased power recovery clauses of the Utility operating companies and, therefore, there can be no assurance that existing recovery mechanisms will remain unchanged or in effect at all. 286 Part I Item 1A, 1B, and 1C Entergy Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy The Utility operating companies’ cash flows can be negatively affected by the time delays between when gas, power, or other commodities are purchased and the ultimate recovery from customers of the costs in rates.  On occasion, when the level of incurred costs for fuel and purchased power rises dramatically, some of the Utility operating companies may agree to defer recovery of a portion of that period’s fuel and purchased power costs for recovery at a later date, which could increase the near-term working capital and borrowing requirements of those companies.  The Utility operating companies also may experience, and in some instances have experienced, an increase in customer bill arrearages and bad debt expenses due to, among other reasons, increases in fuel and purchased power costs, especially in periods of economic decline or hardship.  For a description of fuel and purchased power recovery mechanisms and information regarding the regulatory proceedings for fuel and purchased power cost recovery, see Note 2 to the financial statements. The Utility operating companies are subject to economic risks associated with participation in the MISO markets and the allocation of transmission upgrade costs.  The operation of the Utility operating companies’ transmission system pursuant to the MISO RTO tariff and their participation in the MISO RTO’s wholesale markets may be adversely affected by regulatory or market design changes, as well as liability under, or any future inability to comply with, existing or future regulations or requirements. The Utility operating companies are subject to economic risks associated with participation in the MISO markets and resource adequacy construct.  MISO tariff rules and system conditions, including transmission congestion, could affect the Utility operating companies’ ability to sell capacity, energy, and/or ancillary services in certain regions and/or the economic value of such sales, or increase the cost of serving the Utility operating companies’ respective loads.  MISO market rules may change or be interpreted in ways that cause additional cost and risk, including compliance risk.  Additionally, each Utility operating company’s continued participation in MISO may be affected by the outcomes of proceedings at their respective retail regulators regarding the realized and expected costs and benefits associated with such Utility operating company’s ongoing participation in MISO. The Utility operating companies participate in the MISO regional transmission planning process and are subject to risks associated with planning decisions that MISO makes in the exercise of control over the planning of the Utility operating companies’ transmission assets that are under MISO’s functional control.  The Utility operating companies pay transmission rates that reflect the cost of transmission projects that the Utility operating companies do not own, which could increase cash or financing needs.  Further, FERC policies and regulation addressing cost responsibility for transmission projects, including transmission projects to interconnect new generation facilities, may potentially give rise to cash and financing-related risks as well as result in upward pressure on the retail rates of the Utility operating companies, which, in turn, may result in adverse actions by the Utility operating companies’ retail regulators.  In addition to the cash and financing-related risks arising from the potential additional cost allocation to the Utility operating companies from transmission projects of others or changes in FERC policies or regulation related to cost responsibility for transmission projects, there is a risk that the Utility operating companies’ business and financial position could be harmed as a result of lost investment opportunities and other effects that flow from an increased number of competitive projects being approved and constructed that are interconnected with their transmission systems. Further, the terms and conditions of the MISO tariff, including provisions related to the design and implementation of wholesale markets, the allocation of transmission upgrade costs, the MISO-wide allowed base rate of return on equity, and any required MISO-related charges and credits are subject to regulation by the FERC.  The operation of the Utility operating companies’ transmission system pursuant to the MISO tariff and their participation in the MISO wholesale markets, and the resulting costs, may be adversely affected by regulatory or market design changes, as well as liability under, or any future inability to comply with, existing or future regulations or requirements. The MISO tariff provisions governing the rights and obligations associated with the resource adequacy construct provided under the MISO tariff are subject to change and have recently undergone significant changes, some of which are the subject of pending litigation and/or appeals.  As an example, MISO recently has made 287 Part I Item 1A, 1B, and 1C Entergy Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy changes to its capacity accreditation methodology for thermal resources which emphasizes performance during a very small subset of hours in which the supply of generation capacity needed to serve load is tightest.  MISO is now embarking on a larger scale reassessment of its overall accreditation practices, including accreditation of renewable resources.  Due to their magnitude and, with respect to the changes already made,  the speed with which they have been implemented, these changes carry risk, including compliance risk, and may result in material additional costs being passed through to the Utility operating companies’ customers in retail rates, including but not limited to additional capacity costs incurred in the annual MISO Planning Resource Auction.  Also, by virtue of the Utility operating companies’ participation in MISO and the design and terms of the MISO resource adequacy construct, other load-serving entities served by the Utility operating companies’ transmission assets, which are under MISO’s functional control, may be able to circumvent reasonable resource planning obligations and avoid, in whole or in part, the full cost of procuring the resources reasonably needed to reliably supply their respective loads.  In particular, the design of the current MISO resource adequacy construct and the absence of a minimum capacity obligation in MISO create a risk of other load-serving entities engaging in “free ridership” through their strategy for participation in the MISO resource adequacy construct and energy and ancillary services markets – specifically, by using energy and ancillary services available from the Utility operating companies’ owned and controlled generating units without paying a reasonable share of the cost of the capacity required to provide such energy and ancillary services.  As a result, there are a variety of risks to the Utility operating companies and their customers, including the risk of bearing additional costs for resources needed to ensure reliable service, the risk of reduced reliability and the enhanced risk of outages and lost sales which, because of the methodology for establishing cost of service rates, presents the risk of upward pressure on the Utility operating companies’ rates. In addition, a large volume of parties and individual generation resources are presently seeking to interconnect to the transmission system MISO administers and over which MISO exercises functional control.  Due to the resources and time required to study and evaluate these numerous interconnection requests, including the effects of speculative requests and requests that are withdrawn at late stages of the process, the current MISO interconnection queue to review new requests is subject to significant delays or periods in which MISO does not accept new interconnection requests.  These delays present risks to the Utility operating companies and their ability to develop and procure new generation resources to serve their respective loads. For additional information on MISO regulation and the Utility operating companies’ membership in MISO, see “ Federal Regulation of the Utility – Transmission and MISO Markets ” section of Part I, Item 1. Entergy’s and the Utility operating companies’ business, results of operations, and financial condition could be adversely affected by events beyond their control, such as public health crises, natural disasters, geopolitical tensions, or other catastrophic events. Entergy and the Utility operating companies could be adversely affected by various events beyond their control, including, without limitation, public health crises, natural disasters, geopolitical tensions and other political instability, or other catastrophic events. Any of the foregoing, whether occurring locally, nationally, or globally, and the resulting effects thereof could lead to disruption of the general economy, impacts on the customers of the Utility operating companies, and disruption of the operations of Entergy’s subsidiaries, due to, among other things: • supply chain, vendor, and contractor disruptions, including shortages or delays in the availability of key components, parts, and supplies such as electronic components and solar panels; • delays in completion of capital or other construction projects, maintenance, and other operations activities, including prolonged or delayed refueling and maintenance outages; • adverse impacts on liquidity and cash flows, including through declining sales, reduced revenues, delays in receipts of customer payments, or increased bad debt expense; • delays in regulatory proceedings; • regulatory outcomes that require the Utility operating companies to postpone planned investments and otherwise reduce costs due to, for example, the impact of a public health crises or such other catastrophic events on their customers; 288 Part I Item 1A, 1B, and 1C Entergy Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy • workforce availability challenges, including, for example, from infections, health, or safety issues resulting from a public health crisis; • increased storm recovery costs; • increased cybersecurity risks as a result of many employees telecommuting; • volatility in the credit or capital markets (and any related increased cost of capital or any inability to access the capital markets or draw on available credit facilities on favorable terms), which could in turn, cause a decrease in the value of its defined benefit pension or decommissioning trust funds; • adverse impacts on Entergy’s credit metrics or ratings; • governmental mandates in response to any such event; or • other adverse impacts on their ability to execute on business strategies and initiatives. To the extent any of these events occur, the business, results of operations, and financial condition of Entergy and the Utility operating companies could be adversely affected. (Entergy Corporation, Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, Entergy New Orleans, and Entergy Texas) A delay or failure in recovering amounts for storm restoration costs incurred as a result of severe weather, the impact on customer bills of permitted storm cost recovery, or the inability to securitize future storm restoration costs could have material effects on Entergy and its Utility operating companies. Entergy’s and its Utility operating companies’ results of operations, liquidity, and financial condition can be materially affected by the destructive effects of severe weather.  Severe weather can also result in significant outages for the customers of the Utility operating companies and, therefore, reduced revenues for the Utility operating companies during the period of the outages.  A delay or failure in recovering amounts for storm restoration costs incurred, inability to securitize future storm restoration costs, or loss of revenues as a result of severe weather could have a material effect on Entergy and those Utility operating companies affected by severe weather, including lower credit ratings and, thus, higher costs for future debt issuances.  The inability to recover losses either excluded by insurance or in excess of the insurance limits that can be secured economically also could have a material effect on Entergy and its Utility operating companies.  In addition, the recovery of major storm restoration costs from customers could effectively limit our ability to make planned capital or other investments due to the impact of such storm cost recovery on customer bills, especially in a rising cost environment. Weather, economic conditions, technological developments, and other factors may have a material impact on electricity and gas sales and otherwise materially affect the Utility operating companies ’ results of operations and system reliability. Temperatures above normal levels in the summer tend to increase electric cooling demand and revenues, and temperatures below normal levels in the winter tend to increase electric and gas heating demand and revenues.  As a corollary, mild temperatures in either season tend to decrease energy usage and resulting revenues.  Higher consumption levels coupled with seasonal pricing differentials typically cause the Utility operating companies to report higher revenues in the third quarter of the fiscal year than in the other quarters.  Changing weather patterns and extreme weather conditions, including hurricanes or tropical storms, droughts, wildfires, flooding events, or ice storms, the frequency or intensity of which may be exacerbated by climate change, may stress the Utility operating companies’ generation facilities and transmission and distribution systems, resulting in increased maintenance and capital costs (and potential increased financing needs), limits on their ability to meet peak customer demand, increased regulatory oversight, criticism or adverse publicity, and reduced customer satisfaction.  These extreme conditions could have a material effect on the Utility operating companies’ financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. Entergy’s electricity sales volumes are affected by a number of factors including weather and economic conditions, trends in energy efficiency, new technologies, and self-generation alternatives, including the willingness 289 Part I Item 1A, 1B, and 1C Entergy Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy and ability of large industrial customers to develop co-generation facilities that greatly reduce their grid demand.  In addition, changes to regulatory policies, such as those that allow customers to directly access the market to procure wholesale energy or those that incentivize development and utilization of new, developing, or alternative sources of generation, could, and in some instances, have reduced sales, and other non-traditional procurements, such as virtual purchase power agreements, could, and in some instances have limited growth opportunities or reduced sales at the Utility operating companies.  Some of these factors are inherently cyclical or temporary in nature, such as the weather or economic conditions, and typically do not have a long-lasting effect on Entergy’s operating results.  Others, such as the organic turnover of appliances and lighting and their replacement with more efficient ones and adoption of newer technologies, including smart thermostats, new building codes, distributed energy resources, energy storage, demand side management, and rooftop solar, are having a more permanent effect by reducing sales growth rates from historical norms.  As a result of these emerging efficiencies and technologies, the Utility operating companies may lose customers or experience lower average use per customer in the residential and commercial classes, and continuing advances have the potential to further limit sales or sales growth in the future. The Utility operating companies also may face competition from other companies offering products and services to Entergy’s customers.  Electricity sales to industrial customers, in particular, benefit from steady economic growth and favorable commodity markets; however, industrial sales are sensitive to changes in conditions in the markets in which its customers operate.  Negative changes in any of these or other factors, particularly sustained economic downturns or sluggishness, have the potential to result in slower sales growth or sales declines and increased bad debt expense, which could materially affect Entergy’s and the Utility operating companies’ results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.  The Utility operating companies also may not realize anticipated or expected growth in industrial sales, such as from electrification opportunities to help such customers achieve their environmental and sustainability goals.  This could occur because of changes in customers’ goals or business priorities, competition from other companies, or decisions by such customers to seek to achieve such goals through methods not offered by Entergy. Nuclear Operating, Shutdown, and Regulatory Risks (Entergy Corporation, Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, and System Energy) Certain of the Utility operating companies and System Energy are expected to consistently operate their nuclear power plants at high capacity factors in order to be successful, and lower capacity factors could materially affect Entergy’s and their results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Nuclear capacity factors significantly affect the results of operations of certain Utility operating companies and System Energy.  Nuclear plant operations involve substantial fixed operating costs.  Consequently, there is pressure on plant owners to operate nuclear power plants at higher capacity factors, though such operations always must be consistent with safety, reliability, and nuclear regulatory requirements.  For the Utility operating companies that own nuclear plants, lower nuclear plant capacity factors can increase production costs by requiring the affected companies to generate additional energy, sometimes at higher costs, from their owned or contractually controlled facilities or purchase additional energy in the spot or forward markets in order to satisfy their supply needs. Certain of the Utility operating companies and System Energy periodically shut down their nuclear power plants to replenish fuel.  Plant maintenance and upgrades are often scheduled during such refueling outages.  If refueling outages last longer than anticipated or if unplanned outages arise, Entergy’s and their results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity could be materially affected. Outages at nuclear power plants to replenish fuel require the plant to be “turned off.”  Refueling outages generally are planned to occur once every 18 to 24 months.  Plant maintenance and upgrades are often scheduled during such planned outages, which may extend the planned outage duration beyond that required for only refueling activities.  When refueling outages last longer than anticipated or a plant experiences unplanned outages, capacity factors decrease, and maintenance costs may increase. 290 Part I Item 1A, 1B, and 1C Entergy Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy Certain of the Utility operating companies and System Energy face risks related to the purchase of uranium fuel (and its conversion, enrichment, and fabrication).  These risks could materially affect Entergy’s and their results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Based upon currently planned fuel cycles, Entergy’s nuclear units have a diversified portfolio of contracts and inventory that provides substantially adequate nuclear fuel materials and conversion and enrichment services at what Entergy believes are reasonably predictable prices through the end of 2027.  Entergy’s ability to purchase nuclear fuel at reasonably predictable prices, however, depends upon the performance reliability of uranium miners.  While there are a number of possible alternate suppliers that may be accessed to mitigate any supplier performance failure, the pricing of any such alternate uranium supply from the market will be dependent upon the market for uranium supply at that time.  Entergy buys uranium from a diversified mix of sellers located in a diversified mix of countries, and from time to time purchases from nearly all qualified reliable major market participants worldwide that sell into the U.S.  Market prices for nuclear fuel have been extremely volatile from time to time in the past and may be subject to increased volatility due to the imposition of tariffs, domestic purchase requirements, supply chain disruptions, limitations or bans on importation of uranium or uranium products from foreign countries, evolving geopolitical conditions such as the wars between Russia and Ukraine and Israel and Hamas, the Nigerien coup, or shifting trade arrangements or sanctions between countries.  Although Entergy’s nuclear fuel contract portfolio provides a degree of hedging against market risks for several years, costs for nuclear fuel in the future cannot be predicted with certainty due to inherent market uncertainties, as well as uncertainties arising from geopolitical conflicts, and price changes could materially affect the liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations of certain of the Utility operating companies and System Energy. Entergy’s ability to assure uninterrupted nuclear fuel supply also depends upon the performance and reliability of conversion, enrichment, and fabrication services providers.  These service providers are fewer in number than uranium suppliers.  For conversion and enrichment services, Entergy diversifies its supply by supplier and country and may take special measures to ensure a reliable supply of enriched uranium for fabrication into nuclear fuel.  For fabrication services, each plant is dependent upon the performance of the fabricator of that plant’s nuclear fuel; therefore, Entergy relies upon additional monitoring, inspection, and oversight of the fabrication process to assure reliability and quality of its nuclear fuel.  Certain of the suppliers and service providers are located in or dependent upon foreign countries, such as Russia, and international sanctions or tariffs impacting trade with such countries could further restrict the ability of such suppliers or service providers to continue to supply fuel or provide such services at acceptable prices or at all.  While such suppliers have performed as expected to date, the future inability of suppliers to perform such obligations could materially affect the liquidity, financial condition, and results of operations of certain of the Utility operating companies and System Energy. Certain of the Utility operating companies and System Energy face the risk that the NRC will change or modify its regulations, suspend or revoke their licenses, or increase oversight of their nuclear plants, which could materially affect Entergy’s and their results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Under the Atomic Energy Act and Energy Reorganization Act, the NRC regulates the operation of nuclear power plants.  The NRC may modify, suspend, or revoke licenses, shut down a nuclear facility and impose civil penalties for failure to comply with the Atomic Energy Act, related regulations, or the terms of the licenses for nuclear facilities.  Interested parties may also intervene in pending proceedings, which could result in prolonged proceedings.  A change in the Atomic Energy Act, other applicable statutes, or the applicable regulations or licenses, or the NRC’s interpretation thereof, may require a substantial increase in capital expenditures or may result in increased operating or decommissioning costs and could materially affect the results of operations, liquidity, or financial condition of Entergy, certain of the Utility operating companies, or System Energy.  A change in the classification of a plant owned by one of these companies under the NRC’s Reactor Oversight Process, which is the NRC’s program to collect information about plant performance, assess the information for its safety significance, and provide for appropriate licensee and NRC response, also could cause the owner of the plant to incur material additional costs as a result of the increased oversight activity and potential response costs associated with the 291 Part I Item 1A, 1B, and 1C Entergy Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy change in classification.  For additional information concerning the current classification of the plants owned by Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, and System Energy, see “ Regulation of Entergy’s Business - Regulation of the Nuclear Power Industry - NRC Reactor Oversight Process ” in Part I, Item 1. Events at nuclear plants owned by one of these companies, as well as those owned by others, may lead to a change in laws or regulations or the terms of the applicable licenses, or the NRC’s interpretation thereof, or may cause the NRC to increase oversight activity or initiate actions to modify, suspend, or revoke licenses, shut down a nuclear facility, or impose civil penalties.  As a result, if an incident were to occur at any nuclear generating unit, whether an Entergy nuclear generating unit or not, it could materially affect the financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity of Entergy, certain of the Utility operating companies, or System Energy. Certain of the Utility operating companies and System Energy are exposed to risks and costs related to operating and maintaining their nuclear power plants, and their failure to maintain operational efficiency at their nuclear power plants could materially affect Entergy’s and their results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. The nuclear generating units owned by certain of the Utility operating companies and System Energy began commercial operations in the 1970s-1980s.  Older equipment may require more capital expenditures to keep each of these nuclear power plants operating safely and efficiently.  This equipment is also likely to require periodic upgrading and improvement.  Any unexpected failure, including failure associated with breakdowns, forced outages, or any unanticipated capital expenditures, could result in increased costs, some of which costs may not be fully recoverable by these Utility operating companies and System Energy in regulatory proceedings should there be a determination of imprudence.  Operations at any of the nuclear generating units owned and operated by Entergy’s subsidiaries could degrade to the point where the affected unit needs to be shut down or operated at less than full capacity.  If this were to happen, identifying and correcting the causes may require significant time and expense.  A decision may be made to close a unit rather than incur the expense of restarting it or returning the unit to full capacity.  For these Utility operating companies and System Energy, this could result in certain costs being stranded and potentially not fully recoverable in regulatory proceedings.  In addition, the operation and maintenance of Entergy’s nuclear facilities require the commitment of substantial human resources that can result in increased costs. Moreover, Entergy is becoming more dependent on fewer suppliers for key parts of Entergy’s nuclear power plants that may need to be replaced or refurbished, and in some cases, parts are no longer available and have to be reverse-engineered for replacement.  In addition, certain major parts have long lead-times to manufacture if an unplanned replacement is needed.  This dependence on a reduced number of suppliers and long lead-times on certain major parts for unplanned replacements could result in delays in obtaining qualified replacement parts and, therefore, greater expense for certain of the Utility operating companies and System Energy. The costs associated with the storage of the spent nuclear fuel of certain of the Utility operating companies and System Energy, as well as the costs of and their ability to fully decommission their nuclear power plants, could be significantly affected by the timing of the opening of a spent nuclear fuel disposal facility, as well as interim storage and transportation requirements. Certain of the Utility operating companies and System Energy incur costs for the on-site storage of spent nuclear fuel.  The approval of a license for a national repository for the disposal of spent nuclear fuel, such as the one proposed for Yucca Mountain, Nevada, or any interim storage facility, and the timing of such facility opening, will significantly affect the costs associated with on-site storage of spent nuclear fuel.  For example, while the DOE is required by law to proceed with the licensing of the Yucca Mountain repository and, after the license is granted by the NRC, to construct the repository and commence the receipt of spent fuel, the NRC licensing of the Yucca Mountain repository is effectively at a standstill.  These actions are prolonging the time before spent fuel is removed from Entergy’s plant sites.  Because the DOE has not accomplished its objectives, it is in non-compliance with the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 and is in partial breach of its spent fuel disposal contracts, and Entergy has sued the DOE for such breach.  Furthermore, Entergy is uncertain as to when the DOE will commence acceptance of 292 Part I Item 1A, 1B, and 1C Entergy Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy spent fuel from its facilities for storage or disposal.  As a result, continuing future expenditures will be required to increase spent fuel storage capacity at the companies’ nuclear sites and maintenance costs on existing storage facilities, including aging management of fuel storage casks, may increase.  The costs of on-site storage are also affected by regulatory requirements for such storage.  In addition, the availability of a repository or other off-site storage facility for spent nuclear fuel may affect the ability to fully decommission the nuclear units and the costs relating to decommissioning.  For further information regarding spent fuel storage, see the “ Critical Accounting Estimates – Nuclear Decommissioning Costs – Spent Fuel Disposal ” section of Management’s Financial Discussion and Analysis for Entergy, Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, and System Energy and Note 8 to the financial statements. Certain of the Utility operating companies and System Energy may be required to pay substantial retrospective premiums imposed under the Price-Anderson Act and/or by Nuclear Electric Insurance Limited (NEIL) in the event of a nuclear incident, and losses not covered by insurance could have a material effect on Entergy’s and their results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. Accidents and other unforeseen problems at nuclear power plants have occurred both in the United States and elsewhere.  As required by the Price-Anderson Act, the Utility operating companies and System Energy carry the maximum available amount of primary nuclear off-site liability insurance with American Nuclear Insurers, which as of January 1, 2024 is $500 million for each operating site.  Claims for any nuclear incident exceeding that amount are covered under Secondary Financial Protection.  The Price-Anderson Act limits each reactor owner’s public liability (off-site) for a single nuclear incident to the payment of retrospective premiums into a secondary insurance pool, which is referred to as Secondary Financial Protection, up to approximately $165.9 million per reactor.  With 95 reactors currently participating, this translates to a total public liability cap of approximately $15.8 billion per incident.  The limit is subject to change to account for the effects of inflation, a change in the primary limit of insurance coverage, and changes in the number of licensed reactors.  As a result, in the event of a nuclear incident that causes damages (off-site) in excess of the primary insurance coverage, each owner of a nuclear plant reactor, including Entergy’s Utility operating companies and System Energy, regardless of fault or proximity to the incident, will be required to pay a retrospective premium, equal to its proportionate share of the loss in excess of the primary insurance level, up to a maximum of approximately $165.9 million per reactor per incident (Entergy’s maximum total contingent obligation per incident is approximately $830 million).  The retrospective premium payment is currently limited to approximately $25 million per year per incident per reactor until the aggregate public liability for each licensee is paid up to the $165.9 million cap. NEIL is a utility industry mutual insurance company, owned by its members, including the Utility operating companies and System Energy.  NEIL provides onsite property and decontamination coverage.  All member plants could be subject to an annual assessment (retrospective premium of up to 10 times current annual premium for all policies) should the NEIL surplus (reserve) be significantly depleted due to insured losses.  As of April 1, 2023, the maximum annual assessment amounts total approximately $70 million for the Utility plants. As mentioned above, as an owner of nuclear power plants, Entergy participates in industry self-insurance programs and could be liable to fund claims should a plant owned by a different company experience a major event.  Any resulting liability from a nuclear accident may exceed the applicable primary insurance coverage and require contribution of additional funds through the industry-wide program that could significantly affect the results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity of Entergy, certain of the Utility operating companies, or System Energy. 293 Part I Item 1A, 1B, and 1C Entergy Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy The decommissioning trust fund assets for the nuclear power plants owned by certain of the Utility operating companies and System Energy may not be adequate to meet decommissioning obligations if market performance and other changes decrease the value of assets in the decommissioning trusts, if one or more of Entergy’s nuclear power plants is retired earlier than the anticipated shutdown date, if the plants cost more to decommission than estimated, or if current regulatory requirements change, which then could require significant additional funding. Owners of nuclear generating plants have an obligation to decommission those plants.  Certain of the Utility operating companies and System Energy maintain decommissioning trust funds for this purpose.  Certain of the Utility operating companies and System Energy collect funds from their customers, which are deposited into the trusts covering the units operated for or on behalf of those companies.  Those rate collections, as adjusted from time to time by rate regulators, are generally based upon operating license lives and trust fund balances as well as estimated trust fund earnings and decommissioning costs.  Assets in these trust funds are subject to market fluctuations, will yield uncertain returns that may fall below projected return rates, and may result in losses resulting from the recognition of impairments of the value of certain securities held in these trust funds. Under NRC regulations, nuclear plant owners are permitted to project the NRC-required decommissioning amount, based on an NRC formula or a site-specific estimate, and the amount that will be available in each nuclear power plant’s decommissioning trusts combined with any other decommissioning financial assurances in place.  The projections are made based on the operating license expiration date and the mid-point of the subsequent decommissioning process, or the anticipated actual completion of decommissioning if a site-specific estimate is used.  If the projected amount of each individual plant’s decommissioning trusts exceeds the NRC-required decommissioning amount, then its NRC license termination decommissioning obligations are considered to be funded in accordance with NRC regulations.  If the projected costs do not sufficiently reflect the actual costs required to decommission these nuclear power plants, or if funding is otherwise inadequate, or if the formula, formula inputs, or site-specific estimate is changed to require increased funding, additional resources or commitments would be required.  Furthermore, depending upon the level of funding available in the trust funds, the NRC may not permit the trust funds to be used to pay for related costs such as the management of spent nuclear fuel that are not included in the NRC’s formula.  The NRC may also require a plan for the provision of separate funding for spent fuel management costs. Further, federal or state regulatory changes, including mandated increases in decommissioning funding or changes in the methods or standards for decommissioning operations, may also increase the funding requirements of, or accelerate the timing for funding of, the obligations related to the decommissioning of the nuclear generating plant owned by certain of the Utility operating companies or System Energy or may restrict the decommissioning-related costs that can be paid from the decommissioning trusts.  Such changes also could result in the need for additional contributions to decommissioning trusts, or the posting of parent guarantees, letters of credit, or other surety mechanisms.  As a result, under any of these circumstances, the results of operations, liquidity, and financial condition of Entergy, certain of the Utility operating companies, or System Energy could be materially affected. An early plant shutdown (either generally or relative to current expectations), poor investment results, or higher than anticipated decommissioning costs (including as a result of changing regulatory requirements) could cause trust fund assets to be insufficient to meet the decommissioning obligations, with the result that certain of the Utility operating companies or System Energy may be required to provide significant additional funds or credit support to satisfy regulatory requirements for decommissioning, which, with respect to these Utility operating companies or System Energy, may not be recoverable from customers in a timely fashion or at all. For further information regarding nuclear decommissioning costs, see the “ Critical Accounting Estimates - Nuclear Decommissioning Costs ” section of Management’s Financial Discussion and Analysis for Entergy, Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, and System Energy, and Notes 9 and 16 to the financial statements. 294 Part I Item 1A, 1B, and 1C Entergy Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy New or existing safety concerns regarding operating nuclear power plants and nuclear fuel could lead to restrictions upon the operation and decommissioning of Entergy’s nuclear power plants. New and existing concerns are being expressed in public forums about the safety of nuclear generating units and nuclear fuel.  These concerns have led to, and may continue to lead to, various proposals to federal regulators and governing bodies in some localities where Entergy’s subsidiaries own nuclear generating units for legislative and regulatory changes that might lead to the shutdown of nuclear units, additional requirements or restrictions related to spent nuclear fuel on-site storage and eventual disposal, or other adverse effects on owning, operating, and decommissioning nuclear generating units.  Entergy vigorously responds to these concerns and proposals.  If any of the existing proposals, or any proposals that may arise in the future with respect to legislative and regulatory changes, become effective, they could have a material effect on Entergy’s results of operations and financial condition. Business Risks (Entergy Corporation, Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Mississippi, Entergy New Orleans, Entergy Texas, and System Energy) Entergy and its Registrant Subsidiaries depend on access to the capital markets and, at times, may face potential liquidity constraints, which could make it more difficult to handle future contingencies such as natural disasters or substantial increases in gas and fuel prices.  Disruptions in the capital and credit markets may adversely affect Entergy’s and its subsidiaries’ ability to meet liquidity needs, or to access capital to operate and grow their businesses, and the cost of capital. Entergy’s business is capital intensive and dependent upon its ability to access capital at reasonable rates and other terms.  At times there are also spikes in the price for natural gas and other commodities that increase the liquidity requirements of the Utility operating companies.  In addition, Entergy’s and the Registrant Subsidiaries’ liquidity needs could significantly increase in the event of a hurricane or other weather-related or unforeseen disaster similar to that experienced in Entergy’s service area with Hurricane Katrina and Hurricane Rita in 2005, Hurricane Gustav and Hurricane Ike in 2008, Hurricane Isaac in 2012, Hurricane Laura, Hurricane Delta, and Hurricane Zeta in 2020, and Winter Storm Uri and Hurricane Ida in 2021.  The occurrence of one or more contingencies, including an adverse decision or a delay in regulatory recovery of fuel or purchased power costs or storm restoration costs, an acceleration of payments or decreased credit lines, less cash flow from operations than expected, changes in regulation or governmental policy (including tax and trade policy), or other unknown or unforeseen events, could cause the financing needs of Entergy and its subsidiaries to increase.  In addition, accessing the debt capital markets more frequently in these situations may result in an increase in leverage.  Material leverage increases could negatively affect the credit ratings of Entergy, the Utility operating companies, and System Energy, which in turn could negatively affect access to the capital markets. The inability to raise capital on favorable terms, particularly during times of high interest rates and inflation, and uncertainty or reduced liquidity in the capital markets, could negatively affect Entergy and its subsidiaries’ ability to maintain and to expand their businesses.  Access to capital markets could be restricted and/or borrowing costs could be increased due to certain sources of debt and equity capital being unwilling to invest in offerings to fund fossil fuel projects or companies that are impacted by extreme weather events, that rely on fossil fuels, or that are impacted by risks related to climate change.  Factors beyond Entergy’s control may create uncertainty that could increase its cost of capital or impair its ability to access the capital markets, including the ability to draw on its bank credit facilities.  These factors include depressed economic conditions, a recession, increasing interest rates, inflation, sanctions, trade restrictions, political instability, war, terrorism, and extreme volatility in the debt, equity, or credit markets.  Entergy and its subsidiaries are unable to predict the degree of success they will have in renewing or replacing their credit facilities as they come up for renewal.  Moreover, the size, terms, and covenants of any new credit facilities may not be comparable to, and may be more restrictive than, existing facilities.  If Entergy and its subsidiaries are unable to access the credit and capital markets on terms that are reasonable, they may have to delay 295 Part I Item 1A, 1B, and 1C Entergy Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy raising capital, issue shorter-term securities, and/or bear an unfavorable cost of capital, which, in turn, could impact their ability to grow their businesses, decrease earnings, significantly reduce financial flexibility, and/or limit Entergy Corporation’s ability to sustain its current common stock dividend level. A downgrade in Entergy’s or its Registrant Subsidiaries ’ credit ratings could negatively affect Entergy’s  and its Registrant Subsidiaries ’ ability to access capital or the cost of such capital and/or could require Entergy or its subsidiaries to post collateral, accelerate certain payments, or repay certain indebtedness. There are a number of factors that rating agencies evaluate to arrive at credit ratings for each of Entergy and the Registrant Subsidiaries, including each Registrant Subsidiary’s regulatory framework, ability to recover costs and earn returns, storm or climate risk exposure, diversification, and financial strength and liquidity.  If one or more rating agencies downgrade Entergy’s or any of the Registrant Subsidiaries’ ratings, particularly below investment grade, borrowing costs would increase, the potential pool of investors and funding sources would likely decrease, and cash or letter of credit collateral demands may be triggered by the terms of a number of commodity contracts, leases, and other agreements. Most of Entergy’s and its subsidiaries’ suppliers and counterparties require sufficient creditworthiness to enter into transactions.  If Entergy’s or the Registrant Subsidiaries’ ratings decline, particularly below investment grade, or if certain counterparties believe Entergy or the Utility operating companies are losing creditworthiness and demand adequate assurance under fuel, gas, and purchased power contracts, the counterparties may require posting of collateral in cash or letters of credit, prepayment for fuel, gas or purchased power or accelerated payment, or counterparties may decline business with Entergy or its subsidiaries. The reputation of Entergy or its Registrant Subsidiaries may be materially adversely affected by negative publicity or the inability to meet its stated goals or commitments, among other potential causes. As with any company, Entergy’s and its Registrant Subsidiaries’ reputations are an important element of their ability to effectively conduct their businesses.  Entergy’s and its Registrant Subsidiaries’ reputations could be harmed by a variety of factors, including: failure of a generating asset or supporting infrastructure; failure to restore power after a hurricane or other severe weather event in a manner perceived as timely by regulators or customers; the incurrence of storm restoration costs perceived as excessive by regulators or customers; failure to effectively manage land and other natural resources; real or perceived violations of environmental regulations, including those related to climate change; real or perceived issues with Entergy’s safety culture or work environment; inability to meet their climate or human capital strategy goals, or failure to demonstrate meaningful progress toward such goals; inability to keep their electricity rates stable; inability to provide quality customer service, including timely and accurate billing; involvement in a class-action or other high-profile lawsuit; significant delays in construction projects; occurrence of or responses to cyber attacks, data breaches or physical- or cyber- security vulnerabilities; acts or omissions of Entergy management or acts or omissions of a contractor or other third party working with or for Entergy or its Registrant Subsidiaries, which actually or perceivably reflect negatively on Entergy or its Registrant Subsidiaries; measures taken to offset reductions in demand or to supply rising demand; a significant dispute with one of Entergy’s or its Registrant Subsidiaries’ customers or other stakeholders; or negative political and public sentiment resulting in a significant amount of adverse press coverage and other adverse statements affecting Entergy or its Registrant Subsidiaries. Addressing any adverse publicity or regulatory scrutiny is time consuming and expensive and, regardless of the factual basis for the assertions being made (or lack thereof), can have a negative impact on the reputations of Entergy or its Registrant Subsidiaries, on the morale and performance of their employees, and on their relationships with their respective regulators, customers, investors, and commercial counterparties.  Adverse publicity or regulatory scrutiny may also have a negative impact on Entergy or its Registrant Subsidiaries’ ability to take timely advantage of various business or market opportunities. 296 Part I Item 1A, 1B, and 1C Entergy Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy Deterioration in Entergy’s or its Registrant Subsidiaries’ reputations may harm Entergy’s or its Registrant Subsidiaries’ relationships with their customers, regulators, and other stakeholders, may increase their cost of doing business, may interfere with its ability to attract and retain a qualified, inclusive, and diverse workforce, may impact Entergy’s or its Registrant Subsidiaries’ ability to raise debt capital, and may potentially lead to the enactment of new laws and regulations, or the modification of existing laws and regulations, that negatively affect the way Entergy or its Registrant Subsidiaries conduct their business, or may have a material adverse effect on their financial condition and results of operations. Recent U.S. tax legislation may materially adversely affect Entergy’s financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 significantly changed the U.S. Internal Revenue Code, including taxation of U.S. corporations, by, among other things, reducing the federal corporate income tax rate, limiting interest deductions, and altering the expensing of capital expenditures.  The Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 further significantly changed the U.S. Internal Revenue Code by, among other things, enacting a new corporate alternative minimum tax and expanding federal tax credits for clean energy production.  The interpretive guidance issued by the IRS and state tax authorities may be inconsistent with Entergy’s own interpretation and the legislation could be subject to amendments, which could lessen or increase certain impacts of the legislation.  Further, changes in tax legislation or guidance, or uncertainties regarding interpretation of such tax legislation or guidance, could impact interpretation of and negotiations around certain contractual arrangements with counterparties, which could result in unfavorable changes to such arrangements or delays.  In addition, the retail regulatory treatment of the expanded tax credits and corporate alternative minimum tax included in the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 could materially impact Entergy’s future cash flows, and this legislation and pending interpretive guidance could result in unintended consequences not yet identified that could have a material adverse impact on Entergy’s financial results and future cash flows. Based on initial IRS guidance and current internal forecasts, Entergy and the Registrant Subsidiaries may become subject to the corporate alternative minimum tax included in the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 beginning in the next two to four years. The tax rate decrease included in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act required Entergy to record a regulatory liability for income taxes payable to customers.  Such regulatory liability for income taxes is described in Note 3 to the financial statements.  Depending on the outcome of IRS examinations or tax positions and elections that Entergy may make, Entergy and the Registrant Subsidiaries may be required to record additional charges or credits to income tax expense. See Note 3 to the financial statements for discussion of the effects of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act on 2023, 2022, and 2021 results of operations and financial condition, the provisions of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, and the uncertainties associated with accounting for the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, and Note 2 to the financial statements for discussion of the regulatory proceedings that have considered the effects of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act.  For further discussion of the effects of the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022, see the “ Income Tax Legislation and Regulation ” section of Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries Management’s Financial Discussion and Analysis and Note 3 to the financial statements. Changes in taxation as well as the inherent difficulty in quantifying potential tax effects of business decisions could negatively impact Entergy’s and the Registrant Subsidiaries’ results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Entergy and its subsidiaries make judgments regarding the potential tax effects of various transactions and results of operations to estimate their obligations to taxing authorities, which judgment may prove to be incorrect or may be disputed by regulators or taxing authorities.  These tax obligations include income, franchise, real estate, sales and use, and employment-related taxes.  These judgments include provisions for potential adverse outcomes 297 Part I Item 1A, 1B, and 1C Entergy Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy regarding tax positions that have been taken.  Entergy and its subsidiaries also estimate their ability to utilize tax benefits, including those in the form of carryforwards for which the benefits have already been reflected in the financial statements.  Changes in federal, state, or local tax laws or interpretive guidance relating thereto, adverse tax audit results or adverse tax rulings on positions taken by Entergy and its subsidiaries could negatively affect Entergy’s and the Registrant Subsidiaries’ results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.  The intended and unintended consequences of recently enacted legislation could have a material adverse impact on Entergy’s financial results and future cash flows.  For further information regarding Entergy’s income taxes, see the “ Income Tax Legislation and Regulation ” section of Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries Management’s Financial Discussion and Analysis and Note 3 to the financial statements. Entergy and its subsidiaries’ ability to successfully execute on their business strategies, including their ability to complete strategic transactions, is subject to significant risks, and, as a result, they may be unable to achieve some or all of the anticipated results of such strategies, which could materially affect their future prospects, results of operations, and the realization of any anticipated benefits from such transactions. Entergy and its subsidiaries’ future prospects and results of operations significantly depend on their ability to successfully implement their business strategies, including achieving Entergy’s climate goals and commitments, which are subject to business, regulatory, economic, shareholder activism and other risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond their control.  As a result, Entergy and its subsidiaries may be unable to fully achieve the anticipated results of such strategies. Additionally, Entergy and its subsidiaries have pursued and may continue to pursue strategic transactions including merger, acquisition, divestiture, joint venture, restructuring, or other strategic transactions.  For example, each of Entergy Louisiana and Entergy New Orleans have entered into purchase and sale agreements to sell their respective regulated natural gas local distribution company businesses to a third-party.  Also, a significant portion of Entergy’s utility business plan over the next several years includes the construction and/or purchase of a variety of solar facilities.  These or other transactions and plans are or may become subject to regulatory approval and other material conditions or contingencies, including increased costs or delays resulting from supply chain disruptions, import tariffs, and other issues.  The failure to complete these transactions or plans or any future strategic transaction successfully or on a timely basis could have an adverse effect on Entergy’s or its subsidiaries’ financial condition or results of operations and the market’s perception of Entergy’s ability to execute its strategy.  Further, these transactions, and any completed or future strategic transactions, involve substantial risks, including the following: • acquired businesses or assets may not produce revenues, earnings, or cash flow at anticipated levels; • acquired businesses or assets could have environmental, permitting, or other problems for which contractual protections prove inadequate; • Entergy and/or its subsidiaries may assume liabilities that were not disclosed to them, that exceed their estimates, or for which their rights to indemnification from the seller are limited; • Entergy may experience issues integrating businesses into its internal controls over financial reporting; • the acquisition or disposition of a business could divert management’s attention from other business concerns; • Entergy and/or its subsidiaries may be unable to obtain the necessary regulatory or governmental approvals to close a transaction, such approvals may be granted subject to terms that are unacceptable, or Entergy or its subsidiaries otherwise may be unable to achieve anticipated regulatory treatment of any such transaction or acquired business or assets; and • Entergy or its subsidiaries otherwise may be unable to achieve the full strategic and financial benefits that they anticipate from the transaction, or such benefits may be delayed or may not occur at all. Entergy and its subsidiaries may not be successful in managing these or any other significant risks that they may encounter in acquiring or divesting a business, or engaging in other strategic transactions, which could have a material effect on their business, financial condition, or results of operations. 298 Part I Item 1A, 1B, and 1C Entergy Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy The completion of capital projects, including the construction of power generation facilities, and other capital improvements, involve substantial risks.  Should such efforts be unsuccessful, the financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity of Entergy and the Utility operating companies could be materially affected. Entergy’s and the Utility operating companies’ ability to complete capital projects, including the construction of power generation facilities, or make other capital improvements, such as transmission and distribution infrastructure replacements or upgrades, in a timely and cost-effective manner and within budget is contingent upon many variables and subject to substantial risks.  These variables include, but are not limited to, project management expertise, escalating costs for materials, labor, and environmental compliance, reliance on suppliers for timely and satisfactory performance, delays and cost increases, and supply chains and material constraints, including those that may result from major storm events, both within and outside of Entergy’s service area.  Delays in obtaining permits, challenges in securing sufficient land for the siting of solar panels and power generation facilities, shortages in materials and qualified labor, levels of public support or opposition, suppliers and contractors not performing as expected or required under their contracts and/or experiencing financial problems that inhibit their ability to fulfill their obligations under contracts, changes in the scope and timing of projects, poor quality initial cost estimates from contractors, the inability to raise capital on favorable terms, changes in commodity prices affecting revenue, fuel costs, or materials costs, downward changes in the economy, changes in law or regulation, including environmental compliance requirements, further direct and indirect trade and tariff issues, including those associated with imported solar panels, supply chain delays or disruptions, and other events beyond the control of the Utility operating companies may occur that may materially affect the schedule, cost, and performance of these projects.  If these projects or other capital improvements are significantly delayed or become subject to cost overruns or cancellation, Entergy and the Utility operating companies could incur additional costs and termination payments or face increased risk of potential write-off of the investment in the project.  In addition, the Utility operating companies could be exposed to higher costs and market volatility, which could affect cash flow and cost recovery, should their respective regulators decline to approve the construction of the project or new generation needed to meet the reliability needs of customers at the lowest reasonable cost. For further information regarding capital expenditure plans and other uses of capital in connection with capital projects, including the potential construction and/or purchase of additional generation supply sources within the Utility operating companies’ service areas, see the “ Capital Expenditure Plans and Other Uses of Capital ” section of Management’s Financial Discussion and Analysis for Entergy and each of the Registrant Subsidiaries. Failure to attract, retain and manage an appropriately qualified workforce could negatively affect Entergy or its subsidiaries’ results of operations. Entergy relies on a large and changing workforce, including employees, contractors, and temporary staffing.  Certain factors, such as an aging workforce, mismatching of skill sets for current and future needs, failing to appropriately anticipate future workforce needs, workforce impacts from public health concerns, challenges competing with other employers offering fully remote or more flexible work options, rising salary and other labor costs, unavailability of contract resources, and labor disputes and work disruptions may lead to operating challenges and increased costs.  The challenges include inability to attract or retain talent, lack of resources, loss of knowledge base, and the time required for skill development.  Costs, including costs for contractors to replace employees, productivity costs, and safety costs, may increase.  Failure to hire and adequately train replacement employees, or the future availability and cost of contract labor, may adversely affect the ability to manage and operate the business, especially considering the specialized workforce needs associated with nuclear generation facilities and new skills required to develop and operate a modernized, technology-enabled, and lower carbon power grid.  If Entergy and its subsidiaries are unable to successfully attract, retain, and manage an appropriately qualified workforce, their results of operations, financial position, and cash flows could be negatively affected. 299 Part I Item 1A, 1B, and 1C Entergy Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy Entergy and its subsidiaries, including the Utility operating companies and System Energy, may incur substantial costs to fulfill their obligations related to environmental and other matters. The businesses in which Entergy’s subsidiaries, including the Utility operating companies and System Energy, operate are subject to extensive environmental regulation by local, state, and federal authorities.  These laws and regulations affect the manner in which the Utility operating companies and System Energy conduct their operations and make capital expenditures.  These laws and regulations also affect how Entergy’s subsidiaries, including the Utility operating companies and System Energy, manage air emissions, discharges to water, wetlands impacts, solid and hazardous waste storage and disposal, cooling and service water intake, the protection of threatened and endangered species, certain migratory birds and eagles, hazardous materials transportation, and similar matters.  Federal, state, and local authorities continually revise these laws and regulations, and the laws and regulations are subject to judicial interpretation and to the permitting and enforcement discretion vested in the implementing agencies.  Developing and implementing plans for facility compliance with these requirements can lead to capital, personnel, and operation and maintenance expenditures.  Violations of these requirements can subject the Utility operating companies and System Energy to enforcement actions, capital expenditures to bring existing facilities into compliance, additional operating costs or operating restrictions to achieve compliance, remediation and clean-up costs, civil penalties, and exposure to third parties’ claims for alleged health or property damages or for violations of applicable permits or standards.  In addition, Entergy and its subsidiaries, including the Utility operating companies and System Energy, are subject to potential liability under these laws for the costs of remediation of environmental contamination of property now or formerly owned or operated by the Utility operating companies and System Energy and of property potentially contaminated by hazardous substances they generate.  The Utility operating companies currently are involved in proceedings relating to sites where hazardous substances have been released and may be subject to additional proceedings in the future.  Entergy’s subsidiaries, including the Utility operating companies and System Energy, have incurred and expect to incur significant costs related to environmental compliance. Emissions of nitrogen and sulfur oxides, mercury, particulates, greenhouse gases, and other regulated emissions from generating plants potentially are subject to increased regulation, controls, and mitigation expenses.  In addition, existing environmental regulations and programs promulgated by the EPA often are challenged legally, or are revised or withdrawn by the EPA, sometimes resulting in large-scale changes to anticipated regulatory regimes and the resulting need to shift course, both operationally and economically, depending on the nature of the changes.  Risks relating to global climate change, initiatives to regulate, or otherwise compel reductions of greenhouse gas emissions, and water availability issues are discussed below. Entergy and its subsidiaries may not be able to obtain or maintain all required environmental regulatory approvals.  If there is a delay in obtaining any required environmental regulatory approvals, or if Entergy and its subsidiaries fail to obtain, maintain, or comply with any such approval, the operation of its facilities could be stopped or become subject to additional costs.  For further information regarding environmental regulation and environmental matters, including Entergy’s response to climate change, see the “ Regulation of Entergy ’ s Business – Environmental Regulation ” section of Part I, Item 1. Environmental and regulatory obligations intended to combat the effects of climate change, including by compelling greenhouse gas emission reductions or reporting, increasing clean or renewable energy requirements, or placing a price on greenhouse gas emissions, or the achievement of voluntary climate commitments could materially affect the financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity of Entergy and Entergy’s subsidiaries, including the Utility operating companies and System Energy. In an effort to address climate change concerns, some federal, state, and local authorities are calling for additional laws and regulations aimed at known or suspected causes of climate change.  For example, the EPA, various environmental interest groups, and other organizations have focused considerable attention on CO 2 emissions from power generation facilities and their potential role in climate change.  The EPA has promulgated regulations controlling greenhouse gas emissions from certain vehicles, and has proposed regulations for new, 300 Part I Item 1A, 1B, and 1C Entergy Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy existing, and significantly modified stationary sources of emissions, including electric generating units.  Such regulations continue to evolve.  Various states and regions of the U.S. have taken action to establish greenhouse gas limitations and trading programs.  In Louisiana, the former Office of the Governor announced in 2020 the creation of a Climate Initiatives Task Force and issued an executive order that established a path to net-zero emissions by 2050, while in 2021, the City Council of New Orleans passed a renewable and clean portfolio standard that sets a goal of net-zero emissions by 2040 and absolute zero emissions by 2050.  The impact that continued changes in the governmental response to climate change risk and any judicial interpretation thereof will have on existing and pending environmental laws and regulations related to greenhouse gas emissions currently is unclear. Developing and implementing plans for compliance with greenhouse gas emissions reduction or reporting or clean/renewable energy requirements, or for achieving voluntary climate commitments can lead to additional capital, personnel, and operation and maintenance expenditures and could significantly affect the economic position of existing facilities and proposed projects.  The operations of low or non-emitting generating units (such as nuclear units and solar facilities) at lower than expected capacity factors could require increased generation from higher emitting units, thus increasing Entergy’s greenhouse gas emission rate.  Moreover, long-term planning to meet environmental requirements can be negatively impacted and costs may increase to the extent laws and regulations change prior to full implementation.  These requirements could, in turn, lead to changes in the planning or operations of balancing authorities or organized markets in areas where Entergy’s subsidiaries, including the Utility operating companies or System Energy, do business.  Violations of such requirements may subject the Utility operating companies to enforcement actions, capital expenditures to bring existing facilities into compliance, additional operating costs or operating restrictions to achieve compliance, civil penalties, and exposure to third parties’ claims for alleged health or property damages or for violations of applicable permits or standards.  Further, real or perceived violations of environmental regulations, including those related to climate change, or inability to meet Entergy’s voluntary climate commitments, could negatively impact Entergy’s reputation or inhibit Entergy’s ability to pursue its decarbonization objectives.  To the extent Entergy believes any of these costs are recoverable in rates, however, additional material rate increases for customers could be resisted by Entergy’s regulators and, in extreme cases, Entergy’s regulators might attempt to deny or defer timely recovery of these costs. Future changes in regulation or policies governing the reporting or emission of CO 2 and other greenhouse gases or mix of generation sources could (i) result in significant additional costs to Entergy’s Utility operating companies, their suppliers, or customers, (ii) make some of Entergy’s electric generating units uneconomical to maintain or operate, (iii) result in the early retirement of generation facilities and stranded costs if Entergy’s Utility operating companies are unable to fully recover the costs and investment in generation, and (iv) increase the difficulty that Entergy and its Utility operating companies have with obtaining or maintaining required environmental regulatory approvals, each of which could materially affect the financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity of Entergy and its subsidiaries.  In addition, lawsuits have occurred or are reasonably expected against emitters of greenhouse gases alleging that these companies are liable for personal injuries and property damage caused by climate change.  These lawsuits may seek injunctive relief, monetary compensation, and punitive damages. In March 2019, Entergy voluntarily set a climate goal to achieve a 50 percent reduction in its carbon emission rate from the year 2000 by 2030.  In September 2020, Entergy voluntarily committed to achieving net zero carbon emissions by 2050.  In November 2022, Entergy voluntarily set a climate goal to achieve 50 percent carbon-free energy capacity by 2030.  Risks to achieving the 2030 and 2050 goals include, among other things, the ability to execute on renewable resource plans, regulatory approvals, customer demand for carbon-free energy that exceeds Entergy’s or its Utility operating companies’ ability to add lower carbon or carbon-free capacity, load growth, potential tariffs, carbon policy and regulation at the federal or state level, including mandates related to reliability standards, and supply chain costs and constraints.  Technology research and development, innovation, and advancements in carbon-free generation are also critical to Entergy’s ability to achieve its 2050 commitment.  Entergy cannot predict the ultimate impact of achieving these objectives, or the various implementation aspects, on its system reliability, or its results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity. 301 Part I Item 1A, 1B, and 1C Entergy Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy The physical effects of climate change could materially affect the financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity of Entergy and its subsidiaries. Potential physical risks from climate change include an increase in sea level, wind and storm surge damages, more frequent or intense hurricanes and wildfires, wetland and barrier island erosion, flooding and changes in weather conditions (such as increases in precipitation, drought, or changes in average temperatures), and potential increased impacts of extreme weather conditions or storms.  Entergy’s subsidiaries own assets in, and serve, communities that are at risk from sea level rise, changes in weather conditions, storms, floods, and loss of the protection offered by coastal wetlands.  A significant portion of the nation’s oil and gas infrastructure is located in these areas and susceptible to storm damage that could be aggravated by the physical impacts of climate change, which could give rise to fuel supply interruptions and price spikes.  Entergy and its subsidiaries also face the risk that climate change could impact the availability and quality of water supplies necessary for operations. Due in part to the recent increase in frequency and intensity of major storm activity along the Gulf Coast, Entergy is pursuing plans to accelerate investments that would enhance the resilience of the electric systems of the Utility operating companies to enable them to better withstand major storms or other significant weather events, to mitigate the cost of restoration of the electric system after major storms or other significant events, to enable more rapid restoration of electricity after major storm or other significant adverse events, and to deliver electricity to critical customers more immediately after such events.  These plans are generally subject to approval by the Utility operating companies’ retail regulators and may not be approved in full or at all.  The need for this investment and these expenditures could give rise to liquidity, capital or other financing-related risks as well as result in upward pressure on the retail rates of the Utility operating companies, which, particularly when combined with upward pressure resulting from the recovery of the costs of recent and future storms, may result in adverse actions by the Utility operating companies’ retail regulators or effectively limit the ability to make other planned capital or other investments. Additionally, prolonged drought conditions and shifting weather patterns resulting from climate change as well as, among other things, buildup of dry vegetation in areas severely impacted by drought may increase the risk of severe wildfire events within the Utility operating companies’ service areas.  Catastrophic wildfires occurring in the Utility operating companies’ service areas could give rise to large damage claims against Entergy or its subsidiaries for fire-related losses alleged to be the result of utility practices and/or the failure of electric and other utility equipment and could also cause Entergy or its subsidiaries to suffer reputational harm or face a more challenging operating, political and regulatory environment. These and other physical changes could result in, among other things, changes in customer demand, increased costs associated with repairing and maintaining generation facilities and transmission and distribution systems resulting in increased maintenance and capital costs (and potential increased financing needs), limits on the Entergy system’s ability to meet peak customer demand, more frequent and longer lasting outages, increased regulatory oversight, criticism or adverse publicity, and lower customer satisfaction.  Also, to the extent that climate change adversely impacts the economic health of a region or results in energy conservation or demand side management programs, it may adversely impact customer demand and revenues.  Such physical or operational risks could have a material effect on Entergy’s and its subsidiaries’ financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity. A decline in the continued and future availability and quality of water for cooling, process, and sanitary uses could materially affect the financial condition, results of operations, and liquidity of Entergy and its subsidiaries. Water is a vital natural resource that is also critical to Entergy and its subsidiaries.  Entergy’s and its subsidiaries’ facilities use water for cooling, boiler make-up, sanitary uses, potable supply, and many other uses.  Entergy’s Utility operating companies also own and/or operate hydroelectric facilities.  Accordingly, water 302 Part I Item 1A, 1B, and 1C Entergy Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy availability and quality are critical to Entergy’s and its subsidiaries’ business operations.  Impacts to water availability or quality could negatively impact both operations and revenues. Entergy and its subsidiaries secure water through various mechanisms (ground water wells, surface waters intakes, municipal supply, etc.) and operate under the provisions and conditions set forth by the provider and/or regulatory authorities.  Entergy and its subsidiaries also obtain and operate in substantial compliance with water discharge permits issued under various provisions of the Clean Water Act and/or state water pollution control provisions.  Regulations and authorizations for both water intake and use and for waste discharge can become more stringent in times of water shortages, low flows in rivers, low lake levels, low groundwater aquifer volumes, and similar conditions.  The increased use of water by industry, agriculture, and the population at large, population growth, saltwater intrusion, and the potential impacts of climate change on the availability of water resources may cause water use restrictions that affect Entergy and its subsidiaries. The Utility operating companies, System Energy, and Entergy’s non-utility operations may incur substantial costs related to reliability standards. Entergy’s business is subject to extensive and mandatory reliability standards.  Such standards, which are established by the NERC, the SERC, and other regional enforcement entities, are approved by the FERC and frequently are reviewed, amended, and supplemented.  Failure to comply with such standards could result in the imposition of fines or civil penalties, and potential exposure to third party claims for alleged violations of such standards.  The standards, as well as the laws and regulations that govern them, are subject to judicial interpretation and to the enforcement discretion vested in the implementing agencies.  In addition to exposure to civil penalties and fines, the Utility operating companies have incurred and expect to incur significant costs related to compliance with new and existing reliability standards, including costs associated with the Utility operating companies’ transmission system and generation assets.  In addition, the retail regulators of the Utility operating companies possess the jurisdiction, and in some cases have exercised such jurisdiction, to impose standards governing the reliable operation of the Utility operating companies’ distribution systems, including penalties if these standards are not met.  The changes to the reliability standards applicable to the electric power industry are ongoing, and Entergy cannot predict the ultimate effect that the reliability standards will have on its Utility and Entergy’s non-utility operations. Entergy and its subsidiaries may not be adequately hedged against changes in commodity prices, which could materially affect Entergy’s and its subsidiaries’ results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. To manage near-term and medium-term financial exposure related to commodity price fluctuations, Entergy and its subsidiaries, including the Utility operating companies, may enter into contracts to hedge portions of their purchase and sale commitments, fuel requirements, and inventories of natural gas, uranium and its conversion and enrichment, coal, refined products, and other commodities, within established risk management guidelines.  As part of this strategy, Entergy and its subsidiaries may utilize fixed- and variable-price forward physical purchase and sales contracts, futures, financial swaps, and option contracts traded in the over-the-counter markets or on exchanges.  However, Entergy and its subsidiaries normally cover only a portion of the exposure of their assets and positions to market price volatility, and the coverage will vary over time.  In addition, Entergy also elects to leave certain volumes during certain years unhedged.  To the extent Entergy and its subsidiaries have unhedged positions, fluctuating commodity prices can materially affect Entergy’s and its subsidiaries’ results of operations and financial position. Although Entergy and its subsidiaries devote a considerable effort to these risk management strategies, they cannot eliminate all the risks associated with these activities.  As a result of these and other factors, Entergy and its subsidiaries cannot predict with precision the impact that risk management decisions may have on their business, results of operations, or financial position. 303 Part I Item 1A, 1B, and 1C Entergy Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy Entergy’s over-the-counter financial derivatives are subject to rules implementing the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act that are designed to promote transparency, mitigate systemic risk, and protect against market abuse.  Entergy cannot predict the impact any proposed or not fully-implemented final rules will have on its ability to hedge its commodity price risk or on over-the-counter derivatives markets as a whole, but such rules and regulations could have a material effect on Entergy's risk exposure, as well as reduce market liquidity and further increase the cost of hedging activities. Entergy has guaranteed or indemnified the performance of a portion of the obligations relating to hedging and risk management activities.  Reductions in Entergy’s or its subsidiaries’ credit quality or changes in the market prices of energy commodities could increase the cash or letter of credit collateral required to be posted in connection with hedging and risk management activities, which could materially affect Entergy’s or its subsidiaries’ liquidity and financial position. The Utility operating companies and Entergy’s non-utility business are exposed to the risk that counterparties may not meet their obligations, which may materially affect the Utility operating companies and Entergy’s non-utility business. The hedging and risk management practices of the Utility operating companies and Entergy's non-utility business are exposed to the risk that counterparties that owe Entergy and its subsidiaries money, energy, or other commodities will not perform their obligations.  Currently, some hedging agreements contain provisions that require the counterparties to provide credit support to secure all or part of their obligations to Entergy or its subsidiaries.  If the counterparties to these arrangements fail to perform, Entergy or its subsidiaries may enforce and recover the proceeds from the credit support provided and acquire alternative hedging arrangements, which credit support may not always be adequate to cover the related obligations.  In such event, Entergy and its subsidiaries might incur losses in addition to amounts, if any, already paid to the counterparties.  In addition, the credit commitments of Entergy’s lenders under its bank facilities may not be honored for a variety of reasons, including unexpected periods of financial distress affecting such lenders, which could materially affect the adequacy of its liquidity sources. Market performance and other changes may decrease the value of benefit plan assets, which then could require additional funding and result in increased benefit plan costs. The performance of the capital markets affects the values of the assets held in trust under Entergy’s pension and postretirement benefits plans.  A decline in the market value of the assets may increase the funding requirements relating to Entergy’s benefit plan liabilities and also result in higher benefit costs.  As the value of the assets decreases, the “expected return on assets” component of benefit costs decreases, resulting in higher benefits costs.  Additionally, asset losses are incorporated into benefit costs over time, thus increasing benefits costs.  Volatility in the capital markets has affected the market value of these assets, which has affected and may affect Entergy’s planned levels of contributions in the future.  Additionally, changes in interest rates affect the liabilities under Entergy’s pension and postretirement benefits plans; as interest rates decrease, the liabilities increase, potentially requiring additional funding and recognition of higher liability carrying costs.  The funding requirements of the obligations related to the pension benefit plans can also increase as a result of changes in, among other factors, retirement rates, life expectancy assumptions, or federal regulations.  For further information regarding Entergy’s pension and other postretirement benefits plans, refer to the “ Critical Accounting Estimates – Qualified Pension and Other Postretirement Benefits ” section of Management’s Financial Discussion and Analysis for Entergy and each of its Registrant Subsidiaries and Note 11 to the financial statements. The litigation environment in the states in which the Registrant Subsidiaries operate poses a significant risk to those businesses. Entergy and its subsidiaries and related entities are involved in the ordinary course of business in a number of lawsuits involving employment, commercial, asbestos, hazardous material and customer matters, and injuries and damages issues, among other matters.  The states in which Entergy and the Registrant Subsidiaries operate have 304 Part I Item 1A, 1B, and 1C Entergy Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy proven to be unusually litigious environments.  Judges and juries in these states have demonstrated a willingness to grant large verdicts, including punitive damages, to plaintiffs in personal injury, property damage, and business tort cases.  Entergy and its subsidiaries use legal and appropriate means to contest litigation threatened or filed against them, but the litigation environment in these states poses a significant business risk. Terrorist attacks and sabotage, physical attacks, cyber attacks, system failures, data breaches or other disruptions of Entergy’s and its subsidiaries’ or their suppliers’ infrastructure or technology systems, including disruptions affecting other third parties ultimately connected to Entergy and its subsidiaries or their suppliers through the transmission grid, may adversely affect Entergy’s business and results of operations. As an operator of critical infrastructure, Entergy and its subsidiaries face a heightened risk of physical attacks or acts or threats of terrorism, cyber attacks, including ransomware attacks, and data breaches, whether as a direct or indirect act against one of Entergy’s generation, transmission or distribution facilities, operations centers, infrastructure, or information technology systems used to manage, monitor, and transport power to customers and perform day-to-day business functions as well as against the systems of critical suppliers and contractors or other third parties interconnected through the grid.  Like many businesses and operators of critical infrastructure, Entergy and its subsidiaries and their third-party suppliers have in the past and, will in the future, continue to be subject to cyber attacks, cybersecurity threats and attempts to compromise and penetrate the information technology systems of Entergy and its subsidiaries and disrupt their operations. Entergy and its subsidiaries operate in a business that requires evolving information technology systems that include sophisticated data collection, processing systems, software, network infrastructure, and other technologies that are becoming more complex and may be subject to mandatory and prescriptive reliability and security standards.  The functionality of Entergy’s technology systems depends on its own and its suppliers’ and their contractors’ technology.  Suppliers’ and their contractors’ technology systems to which Entergy is connected directly or indirectly support a variety of business processes and activities to store sensitive data, including (i) intellectual property, (ii) proprietary business information, (iii) personally identifiable information of customers, employees, and others, and (iv) data with respect to invoicing and the collection of payments, accounting, procurement, and supply-chain activities.  Any significant failure or malfunction of such information technology systems could result in loss of or inappropriate access to data or disruptions of operations. There have been attacks and threats of attacks on energy infrastructure by cyber actors, including those associated with foreign governments.  Further, attacks may become more frequent in the future as technology becomes more prevalent in energy infrastructure.  An attack could affect Entergy’s or its subsidiaries’ ability to operate, including its ability to operate the information technology systems and network infrastructure on which it relies to conduct business. Given the rapid technological advancements of existing and emerging threats, including threats fueled by artificial intelligence, Entergy’s technology systems remain inherently vulnerable despite implementations and enhancements of the multiple layers of security and controls.  In addition, the prevalent use of smartphones, tablets, and other wireless devices, as well as ongoing remote or hybrid work-from-home arrangement for a significant portion of Entergy’s employees and those of its contractors and vendors may also heighten these risks.  If Entergy’s or its subsidiaries’ technology systems, or those of critical suppliers or contractors or other third parties interconnected through the grid, were compromised and unable to detect or recover in a timely fashion to a normal state of operations, Entergy or its subsidiaries could be unable to perform critical business functions that are essential to the company’s well-being and could result in a loss of or inappropriate access to its confidential, sensitive, and proprietary information, including personal information of its customers, employees, suppliers, and others in Entergy’s care.  We cannot anticipate, detect, or implement fully preventive measures against all cybersecurity threats. Any such attacks, failures, or data breaches could have a material effect on Entergy’s and the Registrant Subsidiaries’ business, financial condition, results of operations or reputation.  Although Entergy and the Registrant 305 Part I Item 1A, 1B, and 1C Entergy Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy Subsidiaries purchase insurance for cyber attacks and data breaches, such insurance prices have increased substantially, and coverage may not be adequate to cover all losses that might arise in connection with these incidents.  Such incidents may also expose Entergy to an increased risk of litigation (and associated damages and fines).  For information on our cybersecurity risk management, strategy, and governance, see “ Item 1C. Cybersecurity ” in Part I, Item 1C. Entergy and the Registrant Subsidiaries are subject to risks associated with their ability to obtain adequate insurance at acceptable costs. The global economic cost to insurers resulting from cyber attacks, natural disasters, and other catastrophic events, in addition to an increased focus on climate issues, could have disruptive effects on insurance markets.  The availability of insurance capacity may decrease, and the insurance policies that Entergy or the Registrant Subsidiaries are able to obtain may have higher deductibles, higher premiums, and more restrictive terms and conditions.  Further, the insurance policies of Entergy or the Registrant Subsidiaries may not cover all of their potential exposures or actual amounts of losses incurred. Significant increases in commodity prices, other materials and supplies, and operation and maintenance expenses may adversely affect Entergy's results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. Entergy and its subsidiaries have observed and expect continued inflationary pressures related to commodity prices, other materials and supplies, and operation and maintenance expenses, including in the areas of labor, health care, and pension costs.  The contracts for the construction of certain o f the Utility operating companies’ generation facilities also have included, and in the future may include, price adjustment provisions that, subject to certain limitations, may enable the contractor to increase the contract price to reflect increases in certain costs of constructing the facility.  These inflationary pressures could impact the ability of Entergy and its subsidiaries to control costs and/or make substantial investments in their businesses, including their ability to recover costs and investments, and to earn their allowed return on equity within frameworks established by their regulators while maintaining affordability of their services for their customers, in addition to having unpredictable effects on Entergy’s customers.  Increases in commodity prices, other materials and supplies, and operation and maintenance expenses, including increasing labor costs and costs and funding requirements associated with Entergy's defined benefit retirement plans, health care plans, and other employee benefits, could increase their financing needs and otherwise adversely affect their results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. (Entergy New Orleans) The effect of higher purchased gas cost charges to customers taking gas service may adversely affect Entergy New Orleans’s results of operations and liquidity. Gas rates charged to retail gas customers are comprised primarily of purchased gas cost charges, which provide no return or profit to Entergy New Orleans, and distribution charges, which provide a return or profit to the utility.  Distribution charges recover fixed costs on a volumetric basis and, thus, are affected by the amount of gas sold to customers.  When purchased gas cost charges increase due to higher gas procurement costs, customer usage may decrease, especially in weaker economic times, resulting in lower distribution charges for Entergy New Orleans, which, given its relatively smaller size, could adversely affect results of operations.  Purchased gas cost charges, which comprise most of a customer’s bill and may be adjusted monthly, represent gas commodity costs that Entergy New Orleans recovers from its customers.  Entergy New Orleans’s cash flows can be affected by differences between the time when gas is purchased and the time when ultimate recovery from customers occurs. (Entergy Corporation and System Energy) System Energy owns and, through an affiliate, operates a single nuclear generating facility, and it is dependent on sales to affiliated companies for all of its revenues.  Certain contractual arrangements relating to 306 Part I Item 1A, 1B, and 1C Entergy Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy System Energy, the affiliated companies, and these revenues are the subject of ongoing litigation and regulatory proceedings.  The aggregate amount of refunds claimed in these proceedings, after reduction for settlements reached with the MPSC and the APSC (subject in the latter case to approval by the FERC), exceeds the current net book value of System Energy.  In the event of an adverse decision in one or more of these proceedings requiring the payment of substantial additional refunds, System Energy would be required to seek financing to pay such refunds which financing may not be available on terms acceptable to System Energy when required. System Energy’s operating revenues are derived from the allocation of the capacity, energy, and related costs associated with its 90% ownership/leasehold interest in Grand Gulf.  Charges under the Unit Power Sales Agreement are paid by the Utility operating companies (other than Entergy Texas) as consideration for their respective entitlements to receive capacity and energy.  The useful economic life of Grand Gulf is finite and is limited by the terms of its operating license, which currently expires in November 2044.  System Energy’s financial condition depends both on the receipt of payments from the Utility operating companies (other than Entergy Texas) under the Unit Power Sales Agreement and on the continued commercial operation of Grand Gulf.  The Unit Power Sales Agreement is currently the subject of several litigation proceedings at the FERC (or on appeal from the FERC to the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit), including challenges with respect to System Energy’s authorized return on equity and capital structure, renewal of its sale-leaseback arrangement, treatment of uncertain tax positions, a broader investigation of rates under the Unit Power Sales Agreement, and two prudence complaints, one challenging the extended power uprate completed at Grand Gulf in 2012 and the operation and management of Grand Gulf, particularly in the 2016-2020 time period, and the second challenging the operation and management of Grand Gulf in the 2021-2022 time period. The claims in these proceedings include claims for refunds and claims for rate adjustments.  The aggregate amount of refunds claimed in these proceedings, after reduction for settlements reached with the MPSC and the APSC (subject in the latter case to approval by the FERC), exceeds the current net book value of System Energy.  Entergy Corporation is not obligated to provide funding to System Energy to enable it to pay any such refunds.  In the event that an adverse decision in one or more of these proceedings required the payment of substantial additional refunds, System Energy would need to source additional financing to pay such refunds.  Such financing may not be available on terms acceptable to System Energy when required.  System Energy and its debt securities have been subject to downgrade by rating agencies in the past, most recently in May 2023.  Any further downgrade by one or more rating agencies could adversely affect the market prices of System Energy’s debt securities and otherwise adversely affect System Energy’s financial condition. In addition, an order requiring System Energy to pay substantial additional refunds could result in a default and, in certain cases, acceleration under one or more of System Energy’s existing bond indentures, credit agreements, or other financing arrangements.  Certain events constituting events of default under System Energy’s financing agreements may also result in defaults under, or acceleration with respect to, financing arrangements involving certain credit agreement and guarantee obligations of Entergy Corporation. These proceedings are pending before their respective adjudicators and no final decisions have been reached.  Thus, Entergy cannot predict with certainty the outcome of any of these proceedings, or the magnitude of any refunds or rate adjustments, and an adverse outcome in any of them could have a material adverse effect on Entergy’s or System Energy’s results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity.  See Note 2 to the financial statements for further discussion of the proceedings.  The Utility operating companies (other than Entergy Texas) have agreed to implement certain protocols for providing retail regulators with information regarding rates billed under the Unit Power Sales Agreement. For information regarding the Unit Power Sales Agreement, the sale and leaseback transactions and certain other agreements relating to certain Entergy System companies’ support of System Energy, see Notes 5 and 8 to the financial statements and the “ Utility - System Energy and Related Agreements ” section of Part I, Item 1. 307 Part I Item 1A, 1B, and 1C Entergy Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy (Entergy Corporation) Entergy’s non-utility operations are subject to substantial governmental regulation and may be adversely affected by legislative, regulatory, or market design changes, as well as liability under, or any future inability to comply with, existing or future regulations or requirements. Entergy’s non-utility operations are subject to regulation under federal, state, and local laws.  Compliance with the requirements under these various regulatory regimes may cause Entergy’s non-utility operations to incur significant additional costs, and failure to comply with such requirements could result in the shutdown of the non-complying facility, the imposition of liens, fines, and/or civil or criminal liability. Public utilities under the Federal Power Act are required to obtain FERC acceptance of their rate schedules for wholesale sales of electricity.  Entergy’s non-utility operations include legal entities that meet the definition of a “public utility” under the Federal Power Act by virtue of making wholesale sales of electric energy and/or owning wholesale electric transmission facilities.  The FERC has granted those entities the authority to sell electricity at market-based rates.  The FERC’s orders that grant those entities market-based rate authority reserve the right to revoke or revise that authority if the FERC subsequently determines that those entities can exercise market power in transmission or generation, create barriers to entry, or engage in abusive affiliate transactions.  In addition, market-based sales are subject to certain market behavior rules, and if one of those entities were deemed to have violated one of those rules, they would be subject to potential disgorgement of profits associated with the violation and/or suspension or revocation of their market-based rate authority and potential penalties of up to $1.496 million per day per violation.  If one of those entities were to lose their market-based rate authority, it would be required to obtain the FERC’s acceptance of a cost-of-service rate schedule and could become subject to the accounting, record-keeping, and reporting requirements that are imposed on utilities with cost-based rate schedules.  This could have an adverse effect on the rates those entities charge for power from its facilities. Entergy’s non-utility operations are also affected by legislative and regulatory changes, as well as by changes to market design, market rules, tariffs, cost allocations, and bidding rules imposed by the existing Independent System Operator.  The Independent System Operator that oversees the relevant wholesale power market has imposed, and in the future may continue to impose, mitigation, including price limitations, offer caps and other mechanisms, to address some of the volatility and the potential exercise of market power in that market.  These types of price limitations and other regulatory mechanisms may have an adverse effect on the profitability of Entergy’s non-utility operations’ generation facilities that sell energy and capacity into the wholesale power markets. The regulatory environment applicable to the electric power industry is subject to changes as a result of restructuring initiatives at both the state and federal levels.  Entergy cannot predict the future design of the wholesale power markets or the ultimate effect that the changing regulatory environment will have on Entergy’s non-utility operations.  In addition, in some of these markets, interested parties have proposed material market design changes, including the elimination of a single clearing price mechanism, have raised claims that the competitive marketplace is not working, and have made proposals to re-regulate the markets, impose a generation tax, or require divestitures by generating companies to reduce their market share.  Other proposals to re-regulate may be made and legislative or other attention to the electric power market restructuring process may delay or reverse the deregulation process, which could require material changes to business planning models.  If competitive restructuring of the electric power markets is reversed, modified, discontinued, or delayed, Entergy’s non-utility operations’ results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity could be materially affected. 308 Part I Item 1A, 1B, and 1C Entergy Corporation, Utility operating companies, and System Energy As a holding company, Entergy Corporation depends on cash distributions from its subsidiaries to meet its debt service and other financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock, and has provided, and may continue to provide, capital contributions or debt financing to its subsidiaries, which would reduce the funds available to meet its other financial obligations. Entergy Corporation is a holding company with no material revenue generating operations of its own or material assets other than the stock of its subsidiaries.  Accordingly, all of its operations are conducted by its subsidiaries.  Entergy Corporation has provided, and may continue to provide, capital contributions or debt financing to its subsidiaries, which would reduce the funds available to meet its financial obligations, including making interest and principal payments on outstanding indebtedness, and to pay dividends on Entergy’s common stock.  Entergy Corporation’s ability to satisfy its financial obligations, including the payment of interest and principal on its outstanding debt, and to pay dividends on its common stock depends on the payment to it of dividends or distributions by its subsidiaries.  The subsidiaries of Entergy Corporation are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation, contingent or otherwise, to pay any dividends or make distributions to Entergy Corporation.  The ability of such subsidiaries to make payments of dividends or distributions to Entergy Corporation depends on their results of operations and cash flows and other items affecting retained earnings, and on any applicable legal, regulatory, or contractual limitations on subsidiaries’ ability to pay such dividends or distributions.  Prior to providing funds to Entergy Corporation, such subsidiaries have financial and regulatory obligations that must be satisfied, including among others, debt service and, in the case of Entergy Utility Holding Company, LLC and Entergy Texas, dividends and distributions on preferred securities.  Any distributions from the Registrant Subsidiaries other than Entergy Texas and System Energy are paid directly to Entergy Utility Holding Company, LLC and are therefore subject to prior payment of distributions on its preferred securities. The hazardous activities associated with power generation could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. Power generation involves hazardous activities, including acquiring, transporting and unloading fuel, operating large pieces of rotating equipment and delivering electricity to transmission and distribution systems.  In addition to natural risks, such as earthquakes, floods, lightning, hurricanes and wind, hazards, such as fire, explosion, collapse, and machinery failure, are inherent risks in our operations which may occur as a result of inadequate internal processes, technological flaws, human error, or actions of third parties or other external events.  The control and management of these risks depend upon adequate development and training of personnel and on operational procedures, preventative maintenance plans, and specific programs supported by quality control systems, which may not prevent the occurrence and impact of these risks. The hazards described above, along with other safety hazards associated with our operations, can cause significant personal injury or loss of life, severe damage to and destruction of property, plant and equipment, contamination of, or damage to, the environment and suspension of operations.  The occurrence of any one of these events may result in our being named as a defendant in lawsuits asserting claims for substantial damages, environmental cleanup costs, personal injury, and fines and/or penalties and may adversely affect our reputation.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

Refer to “MANAGEMENT’S FINANCIAL DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS” of each of ENTERGY CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES, ENTERGY ARKANSAS, LLC AND SUBSIDIARIES, ENTERGY LOUISIANA, LLC AND SUBSIDIARIES, ENTERGY MISSISSIPPI, LLC AND SUBSIDIARIES, ENTERGY NEW ORLEANS, LLC AND SUBSIDIARIES, ENTERGY TEXAS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES, and SYSTEM ENERGY RESOURCES, INC.