********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

You should carefully consider each of the following risks and uncertainties associated with our company and the ownership of our securities. If any of the following risks occur, our business and/or financial performance could be materially adversely affected. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business and/or financial performance. COVID-19 Pandemic and Travel Industry Risks The COVID-19 pandemic has had, and is expected to continue to have, a material adverse impact on the travel industry and our business, financial performance and liquidity position. The COVID-19 pandemic has severely restricted the level of economic activity around the world, and is continuing to have an unprecedented effect on the global travel industry. In response to the pandemic, the governments of many countries, states, cities and other geographic regions have implemented containment measures, such as imposing restrictions on travel and business operations and advising or requiring individuals to limit or forgo their time outside of their homes. Governments may continue implementing containment measures in response to new variants of the virus. Individuals’ ability to travel has been curtailed through border closures, mandated travel restrictions and limited operations of hotels and airlines, and may be further limited through additional voluntary or mandated closures of travel-related businesses. While many countries have begun the process of vaccinating their residents against COVID-19, the large scale and challenging logistics of distributing the vaccines, as well as uncertainty over the efficacy of the vaccine against new variants of the virus may contribute to delays in economic recovery, particularly for the travel industry. The measures implemented to contain the COVID-19 pandemic initially led to unprecedented levels of cancellations and continues to have a negative impact on the number of new travel bookings. Moreover, we have modified our cancellation policies in light of the COVID-19 pandemic. For example, except as otherwise required by relevant law, on near-term hotel bookings with non-refundable rates impacted by COVID-19, we have been providing refunds where hotels agree to make the booking refundable; otherwise, we have offered customers credit toward a future booking. We continue to adapt our cancellation policies as the situation evolves. The significant increase in refunds that we experienced in 2020 and may continue to experience has led to materially negative cash flow, which has and will continue to negatively impact our cash balance and overall liquidity position until travel demand begins to recover from current levels. We also may be negatively impacted by the 9 loss of opportunity to cross-sell or market products and services to customers who originally booked air travel with us, but who will ultimately redeem air travel credits received during the COVID-19 pandemic directly from the airlines. Moreover, any additional measures or changes in laws or regulations, whether in the United States or other countries, that further impair the ability or desire of individuals to travel, including laws or regulations banning travel, requiring the closure of hotels or other travel-related businesses (such as restaurants) or otherwise restricting travel due to the risk of the spreading of COVID-19, may exacerbate the negative impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity position. We may also face inquiries and investigations from government regulators who claim that we should have refunded travelers or taken actions to otherwise provide redress to travelers who could not travel due to COVID-19 restrictions. The pandemic has impeded global economic activity for an extended period and could continue to do so, even as restrictions are lifted, leading to a continuation of the already significant decrease in per capita income and disposable income, increased and sustained unemployment or a decline in consumer confidence, all of which could significantly reduce discretionary spending by individuals and businesses on travel. In turn, that could have a negative impact on demand for our services and could lead our partners, or us, to reduce prices or offer incentives to attract travelers. We also cannot predict the long-term effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on our partners and their business and operations or the ways that the pandemic may fundamentally alter the travel industry. In particular, we may need to adjust to a travel industry with fewer and different suppliers as well as structural changes to certain types of travel. For example, there is uncertainty over whether and how corporate travel will rebound given the increase in remote working and use of video conference technology in addition to safety concerns related to business travelers’ health. While we have undertaken certain actions to attempt to mitigate the effects of COVID-19 on our business, our cost-savings activities may lead to disruptions in our business, inability to enhance or preserve our brand awareness, reduced employee morale and productivity, increased attrition, and problems retaining existing and recruiting future employees, all of which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. For the reasons set forth above and other reasons that may come to light as the COVID-19 pandemic and containment measures evolve over time, it is difficult to estimate with accuracy the impact to our future revenues, results of operations, cash flows, liquidity or financial condition, but such impacts have been and will continue to be significant and could continue to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and liquidity position for the foreseeable future. We operate in an increasingly competitive global environment. The market for the services we offer is increasingly and intensely competitive. We compete with both established and emerging online and traditional providers of travel-related services, including online travel agencies; alternative accommodation providers, wholesalers and tour operators; travel product suppliers (including hotels, airlines and car rental companies); search engines and large online portal websites; travel metasearch services; corporate travel management service providers; mobile platform travel applications; social media websites; eCommerce and group buying websites; and other participants in the travel industry. Online travel agencies and alternative accommodations providers. In particular, we face increasing competition from other OTAs and alternative accommodations in many regions, such as Booking Holdings and its subsidiaries Booking.com and Agoda.com; Trip.com, which in some cases may have more favorable offerings for travelers or suppliers, including pricing and supply breadth; and Airbnb. Our OTA competitors are increasingly expanding the range of travel services they offer and the global OTA segment continues to consolidate, with certain competitors merging or forming strategic partnerships. Airbnb, Booking Holdings and other providers of alternative accommodations provide an alternative to hotel rooms and compete with alternative accommodation properties available through Expedia Group brands, including Vrbo. The continued growth of alternative accommodation providers could affect overall travel patterns generally and the demand for our services specifically in facilitating reservations at hotels and alternative accommodations. Furthermore, Airbnb and similar providers could increasingly look to add other travel services, such as tours, activities, hotel and flight bookings, any of which could further extend their reach into the travel market as they seek to compete with the traditional OTAs. Travel suppliers. Travel suppliers, such as hotels, airlines and rental car companies, may offer products and services on more favorable terms to consumers who transact directly with them. Many of these competitors have been steadily focusing on increasing online demand on their own websites and mobile applications in lieu of third-party distributors through favorable rates and bonus or loyal points for direct booking, surcharges for booking outside of the supplier’s own website, suppliers combining to establish a single search platform and other tactics to drive traffic directly to supplier websites. Search engines and large online portal websites. We also face increasing competition from Google and other search engines. There could be a material adverse impact on our business and financial performance to the extent that Google uses its market position to disintermediate online travel agencies through its own offerings or capabilities, refer customers directly to suppliers or other favored partners, increase the cost of traffic directed to our websites, offer the ability to transact on their own website, or promote their own competing products by placing their own offerings at the top of organic search results. 10 In recent years search engines have increased their focus on acquiring or launching travel products that provide increasingly comprehensive travel planning content and direct booking capabilities, comparable to OTAs. For example, Google has continued to add features and functionality to its travel metasearch products (“Google Travel”, “Google Flights”, and “Hotel Ads”), which are growing rapidly, and has integrated reservation functionality into the Hotel Ads product. In addition, Google may be able to leverage the data they collect on users to the detriment of us and other OTAs. Search engines also may continue to expand their voice and artificial intelligence capabilities. To the extent these actions have a negative effect on our search traffic or the cost of acquiring such traffic, our business and financial performance could be adversely affected. In addition, our brands, or brands in which we hold a significant ownership position, including trivago, compete for advertising revenue with these search engines, as well as with large internet portal sites that offer advertising opportunities for travel-related companies. Competition could result in higher traffic acquisition costs, reduced margins on our advertising services, loss of market share, reduced customer traffic to our websites and reduced advertising by travel companies on our websites. Travel metasearch websites. Travel metasearch websites, including Kayak.com (a subsidiary of Booking Holdings), trivago (a majority-owned subsidiary of Expedia Group), TripAdvisor, Skyscanner and Qunar (both are subsidiaries of Trip.com), aggregate travel search results for a specific itinerary across supplier, travel agent and other websites. In addition, some metasearch websites have added or intend to add various forms of direct or assisted booking functionality to their sites in direct competition with certain of our brands. To the extent metasearch websites limit our participation within their search results, or consumers utilize a metasearch website for travel services and bookings instead of ours, our traffic-generating arrangements could be affected in a negative manner, or we may be required to increase our marketing costs to maintain market share, either of which could have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. In addition, as a result of our majority ownership interest in trivago, we also now compete more directly with other metasearch engines and content aggregators for advertising revenue. To the extent that trivago’s ability to aggregate travel search results for a specific itinerary across supplier, travel agent and other websites is hampered, whether due to its affiliation with us or otherwise, or if OTA advertisers or suppliers choose to limit their participation in trivago’s metasearch marketplace, trivago’s business and therefore our results of operations could be adversely affected and the value of our investment in trivago could be negatively impacted. Corporate travel management service providers. Egencia, our full-service corporate travel management company, competes with online and traditional corporate travel providers, including Carlson Wagonlit and American Express Global Business Travel (GBT), as well as vendors of corporate travel and expense management software and services, including Concur. Some of these competitors may have more financial resources, greater name recognition, well-established client bases, differentiated business models or a broader global presence, which may make it difficult for us to retain or attract new corporate travel clients. Mobile and other platform travel applications. The demand for and functionality of smartphones, tablet computers and home assistants continue to grow and improve significantly. If we are unable to offer innovative, user-friendly, feature-rich mobile applications and mobile-responsive websites for our travel services, along with effective marketing and advertising, or if our mobile applications and mobile-responsive websites are not used by consumers, we could lose market share to existing competitors or new entrants and our future growth and results of operations could be adversely affected. Applications and social media websites. Applications and social media websites, including Facebook, continue to develop search functionality for data included within their websites and mobile applications, which may in the future develop into an alternative research and booking resource for travelers, resulting in additional competition. eCommerce and group buying websites. Traditional consumer eCommerce platforms, including Amazon and Alibaba, and group buying websites have periodically undertaken efforts to expand their local offerings into the travel market. For example, traditional consumer eCommerce and group buying websites may add hotel offers or other travel services to their sites. To the extent our travelers use these websites, these websites may create additional competition and could negatively affect our businesses. Other participants in the travel industry. Other participants or existing competitors may begin to offer or expand other services to the travel industry that compete with the services we offer to our travelers, our travel industry affiliates and partners, or our corporate clients. For example, ride-sharing apps increasingly compete with traditional car rental services and travel services continue to proliferate. To the extent any of these services gain market share over time, it may create additional competition and could negatively affect our businesses. We cannot assure you that we will be able to compete successfully against any current, emerging and future competitors or on platforms that may emerge, or provide differentiated products and services to our traveler base. Increasing competition from current and emerging competitors, the introduction of new technologies and the continued expansion of existing technologies, such as metasearch and other search engine technologies, may force us to make changes to our business models, which could affect our financial performance and liquidity. 11 In general, increased competition has resulted in and may continue to result in reduced margins, as well as loss of travelers, transactions and brand recognition. Declines or disruptions in the travel industry could adversely affect our business and financial performance. In addition to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and other potential pandemic or health-related events, our business and financial performance are affected by the overall health of the worldwide travel industry. Factors that could negatively affect the travel industry in general and our business in particular, potentially materially, include: political instability, geopolitical conflicts, trade disputes, significant fluctuations in currency values, sovereign debt issues, macroeconomic concerns, bans on travel to and from certain countries, significant changes in oil prices, continued air carrier and hotel chain consolidation, reduced access to discount fares, travel strikes or labor unrest, bankruptcies or liquidations, increased incidents of actual or threatened terrorism, uncertainties and effects of Brexit, natural disasters, travel-related accidents or grounding of aircraft due to safety concerns, changes in regulations, policies or conditions related to sustainability and climate change, and changes to visa and immigration requirements or border control policies. Our business is also sensitive to fluctuations in hotel supply, occupancy and Average Daily Rates (“ADRs”), changes in airline capacity and airline ticket prices and the imposition of taxes or surcharges by regulatory authorities, all of which we have experienced historically. Because these events or concerns, and the full impact of their effects, are largely unpredictable, they can dramatically and suddenly affect travel behavior by consumers and decrease demand. Decrease in demand, depending on its scope and duration, together with any future issues affecting travel safety, could significantly and adversely affect our business, working capital and financial performance over the short and long-term. In addition, the disruption of the existing travel plans of a significant number of travelers upon the occurrence of certain events, such as severe weather conditions, actual or threatened terrorist activity, war or travel-related health events, could result in significant additional costs and decrease our revenues leading to constrained liquidity if we, as we have done historically in the case of severe weather conditions and travel-related health events, provide relief to affected travelers by refunding the price or fees associated with airline tickets, hotel reservations and other travel products and services. Our business depends on our relationships with travel suppliers and travel distribution partners. An important component of our business success depends on our ability to maintain and expand relationships with travel suppliers (including owners and managers of alternative accommodation properties) and GDS partners. A substantial portion of our revenue is derived from compensation negotiated with travel suppliers, in particular lodging suppliers, airlines and GDS partners for bookings made through our channels. Each year we typically negotiate or renegotiate numerous supplier contracts. No assurances can be given that travel suppliers will elect to participate in our platform, or that our compensation, access to inventory or access to inventory at competitive rates will not be further reduced or eliminated in the future, or that travel suppliers will not reduce the cost of their products or services (for example, ADRs or ticket prices); attempt to implement costly direct connections; charge us for or otherwise restrict access to content; increase credit card fees or fees for other services; fail to provide us with accurate booking information or otherwise take actions that would increase our operating expenses. Any of these actions, or other similar actions, could reduce our revenue and margins thereby adversely affecting our business and financial performance. Financial Risks We may experience constraints in our liquidity and may, whether due to the COVID-19 pandemic or other factors out of our control, be unable to access capital when necessary or desirable, either of which could harm our financial position. Although our cash flows from operations and available capital, including the proceeds from financing transactions, have been sufficient to meet obligations and commitments to date, we cannot predict how the COVID-19 pandemic and resulting economic impacts could affect our liquidity in the future. Our substantial indebtedness, particularly following the transactions completed in response to the impacts of COVID-19, the availability of assets as collateral for loans or other indebtedness, and market conditions may make it difficult for us to raise additional capital on commercially reasonable terms to meet potential future liquidity needs. If our liquidity is materially diminished, we may not be able to timely pay debts or leases or comply with material provisions of our contractual obligations. In addition to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and other potential pandemic or health-related events, we have experienced, and may experience in the future, declines in seasonal liquidity and capital provided by our merchant hotel business, which has historically provided a meaningful portion of our operating cash flow and is dependent on several factors, including the rate of growth of our merchant hotel business and the relative growth of businesses which consume rather than generate working capital, such as our agency hotel, advertising and managed corporate travel businesses and payment terms with suppliers. If, as was the case in 2020, our merchant hotel business declined further, it would likely result in further pressure on our working capital cash balances, cash flow over time and liquidity. 12 Our ability to raise financing depends in significant measure on characteristics of the capital and credit markets and liquidity factors over which we exert no control. In light of uncertainty in the capital and credit markets and constraints on our liquidity, we cannot guarantee that sufficient financing will be available on desirable, or any terms, to fund investments, acquisitions, stock repurchases, dividends, debt refinancing or other actions or that our counterparties in any such financings would honor their contractual commitments. In addition, any downgrade of our debt ratings by Standard & Poor’s, Moody’s Investor Service, Fitch or similar ratings agencies, deterioration of our financial condition, increase in general interest rate levels and credit spreads or overall weakening in the credit markets could increase our cost of capital (including, with respect to ratings downgrades, the interest rate applicable to certain of our outstanding senior notes). We have significant indebtedness, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. As of December 31, 2020, we have outstanding long-term indebtedness, excluding current maturities, with a face value of $8.3 billion and we have revolving credit facilities with outstanding commitments totaling $2.0 billion, which is essentially untapped. Risks relating to our indebtedness include: The agreements governing our indebtedness contain various covenants that may limit our ability to effectively operate our businesses, including those that restrict our ability to, among other things: In addition, our revolving credit facilities require that we meet certain financial tests, including a minimum liquidity test, and starting at the end of 2021, a leverage ratio test. Any failure to comply with the restrictions of our credit facility or any agreement governing our other indebtedness (including the indentures governing our outstanding senior notes) may result in an event of default under those agreements. Such default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt, which acceleration may trigger cross-acceleration or cross-default provisions in other debt. In addition, lenders may be able to terminate any commitments they had made to supply us with further funds and our secured lenders may be able to foreclose against the assets constituting collateral for our secured debt. In addition, it is possible that we may need to incur additional indebtedness in the future in the ordinary course of business or otherwise. The terms of our revolving credit facilities and the indentures governing our outstanding senior notes allow us to incur additional debt subject to certain limitations. If new debt is added to current debt levels, the risks described above could intensify. In addition, the interest rate payable on our $1.2 billion of 9.5% Series A Preferred Stock could increase by 100 to 300 basis points if, as a result of additional borrowings, our leverage ratio under the credit agreement exceeds 5 to 1. Operational Risks Our business could be negatively affected by changes in search engine algorithms and dynamics or other traffic-generating arrangements. 13 We rely heavily on internet search engines, such as Google, through the purchase of travel-related keywords and through organic search, to generate a significant portion of the traffic to our websites and the websites of our affiliates. Search engines frequently update and change the logic that determines the placement and display of results of a user’s search, such that the placement or cost of links to our websites and those of our affiliates can be negatively affected. In addition, a significant amount of traffic is directed to our websites and those of our affiliates through participation in pay-per-click and display advertising campaigns on search engines, including Google, and travel metasearch websites, including Kayak, TripAdvisor and trivago. Pricing and operating dynamics for these traffic sources can change rapidly, both technically and competitively. Moreover, a search or metasearch engine could, for competitive or other purposes, alter its search algorithms or display of results which could cause a website to place lower in search query results or inhibit participation in the search query results. In particular, Google has in the past, and may continue to in the future, change its algorithms or results in a manner that has negatively affected the search engine ranking, paid and unpaid, of our websites and the websites of our affiliates and those of our third-party distribution partners, which has adversely impacted our business and financial performance. Google has also increasingly added its own travel search functionality and content at the expense of traditional paid listings and organic search results, which may continue to reduce the amount of traffic to our websites or those of our affiliates. If Google or other search or metasearch companies continue to pursue these or similar strategies, which is out of our control, or we do not successfully manage our paid and unpaid search strategies, we could face a significant decrease in traffic to our websites and/or increased costs related to replacing unpaid traffic with paid traffic. We rely on the value of our brands, and the costs of maintaining and enhancing our brand awareness are increasing. We invest considerable financial and human resources in our brands in order to retain and expand our customer base in exist ing and emerging markets. We expect that the cost of maintaining and enhancing our brands will continue to increase and given the economic uncertainty and unpredictability around when the travel industry will recover, decisions we make on investing in brands could be less effective and costlier than expected. In recent years, certain online travel companies and metasearch websites expanded their offline and digital advertising campaigns globally, increasing competition for share of voice, and we expect this activity to continue in the future. We are also pursuing and expect to continue to pursue long-term growth opportunities, particularly in emerging markets, which have had and may continue to have a negative impact on our overall marketing efficiency. Our efforts to preserve and enhance consumer awareness of our brands may not be successful, and, even if we are successful in our branding efforts, such efforts may not be cost-effective, or as efficient as they have been historically, resulting in less direct traffic and increased customer acquisition costs. Moreover, branding efforts with respect to some brands within the Expedia Group portfolio have in the past and may in the future result in marketing inefficiencies and negatively impact growth rates of other brands within our portfolio. In addition, our decisions over allocation of resources and choosing to invest in branding efforts for certain brands in our portfolio at the expense of not investing in, or reducing our investments in, other brands in our portfolio could have an overall negative financial impact. If we are unable to maintain or enhance consumer awareness of our brands and generate demand in a cost-effective manner, it would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial performance. We are subject to payments-related risks. Payments Regulations. The processing and acceptance of a variety of payment methods is subject to various laws, rules, regulations, legal interpretations, and regulatory guidance, including those governing cross-border and domestic money transmission and funds transfers; foreign exchange; payment services; and consumer protection. If we were found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, we could be subject to additional requirements and civil and criminal penalties, or forced to cease providing certain services. Moreover, for existing and future payment options we offer to both our customers and suppliers, we are and may increasingly be subject to additional regulations and compliance requirements including obligations to implement enhanced authentication processes, such as the EEA’s Revised Payment Services Directive (“PSD2”), which began being enforced on January 1, 2021. PSD2 imposes new standards for payment security and strong customer authentication that may make it more difficult and time consuming to carry out a payment transaction which could result in significant costs to us and our suppliers and reduce the ease of use of our payments options. Third Party Payment Service Providers. We have agreements with companies that process customer credit and debit card transactions, the volume of which are very large and continue to grow, for the facilitation of customer bookings of travel services from our travel suppliers. These agreements allow these payment processors, under certain conditions, to hold an amount of our cash (referred to as a “holdback”) or require us to otherwise post security equal to a portion of bookings that have been processed by that company. These payment processors may be entitled to a holdback or suspension of processing services upon the occurrence of specified events, including material adverse changes in our financial condition. An imposition of a holdback or suspension of payment processing services by one or more of our payment processors could materially reduce 14 our liquidity. Further, the software and services provided by payment processors may fail to meet our expectations, contain errors or vulnerabilities, be compromised, or experience outages. Any of these risks could cause us to lose our ability to process payments, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected . Payment Card Networks. The payment card networks such as Visa, MasterCard and American Express, may increase in the future, the interchange fees and assessments that they charge for each transaction that accesses their networks, and may impose special fees or assessments on any such transaction. Our payment processors have the right to pass any increases in interchange fees and assessments on to us, which could increase our costs and thereby adversely affect our financial performance. In addition, the payment card networks, have adopted rules and regulations that apply to all merchants who process and accept payment cards and include payment card association operating rules, the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards, or the PCI DSS. Moreover, the payment card networks could adopt new operating rules or interpret or reinterpret existing rules that we or our payment processors might find difficult or even impossible to comply with, or costly to implement. If we fail to comply with these rules or requirements, or if our data security systems are breached or compromised, we may lose our ability to accept credit and debit card payments from our customers, or facilitate other types of online payments, and be liable for card issuing banks’ costs, subject to fines and higher transaction fees, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. We are subject to payments-related fraud risks. Our results of operations and financial positions have been negatively affected by our acceptance of fraudulent bookings made using credit and debit cards or fraudulently obtained loyalty points. We are sometimes held liable for accepting fraudulent bookings on our websites or other bookings for which payment is subsequently disputed by our customers both of which lead to the reversal of payments received by us for such bookings (referred to as a “charge back”). In addition, the payment card networks have rules around acceptable charge back ratios. Accordingly, we calculate and record an allowance for the resulting credit and debit card charge backs. Our ability to detect and combat fraudulent schemes, which have become increasingly common and sophisticated, may be negatively impacted by the adoption of new payment methods, the emergence and innovation of new technology platforms, including smartphones, tablet computers and in-home assistants, and our global expansion, including into markets with a history of elevated fraudulent activity. If we are unable to effectively combat fraudulent bookings on our websites or mobile applications or if we otherwise experience increased levels of charge backs, we may be subject to fines and higher transaction fees or be unable to continue to accept card payments because payment card networks have revoked our access to their networks, and our results of operations and financial positions could be materially adversely affected. In addition, when onboarding suppliers to our websites, we may fail to identify falsified or stolen supplier credentials, which may result in fraudulent bookings or unauthorized access to personal or confidential information of users of our websites and mobile applications. A fraudulent supplier scheme could also result in negative publicity, damage to our reputation, and could cause users of our websites and mobile applications to lose confidence in the quality of our services. Any of these events would have a negative effect on the value of our brands, which could have an adverse impact on our financial performance. We work closely with various business partners and rely on third-parties for many systems and services, and therefore could be harmed by their activities. We have numerous significant commercial arrangements with business partners and we rely on third-party service providers for a broad ranges of key services, including both external, customer-facing services such as customer support and booking fulfillment and internal services related to our operations, technology development and infrastructure. If these partners or service providers fail to meet our requirements or legal or regulatory requirements, it could damage our reputation, make it difficult for us to operate some aspects of our business, or expose us to liability for their actions. Likewise, if one of our third-party service providers were to cease operations, face financial distress or other business disruption, we could suffer increased costs and disruption to our own business operations until an equivalent alternative could be sourced or developed, any of which could also have an adverse impact on our business and financial performance. Additionally, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, most of our employees are working remotely, which may strain the ability of certain technology vendors to support the increased demand for services, such as remote connectivity. Our international operations involve additional risks and our exposure to these risks will increase as our business expands globally. We operate in a number of jurisdictions outside of the United States and intend to continue to expand our international presence. Laws and business practices that favor local competitors or prohibit or limit foreign ownership of certain businesses or our failure to adapt our practices, systems, processes and business models effectively to the traveler and supplier preferences (as well as the regulatory and tax landscapes) of each country into which we expand, could slow our growth or prevent our 15 ability to compete effectively in certain markets. For example, to compete in certain international markets we have in the past, and may in the future, adopt locally-preferred payment methods, which has increased our costs and instances of fraud. Certain international markets in which we operate have lower margins than more mature markets, which could have a negative impact on our overall margins as our revenues from these markets grow over time. Additionally, some countries have enacted or are considering enacting data localization laws that make competition by foreign companies costly or operationally difficult in those markets. In addition to the risks outlined elsewhere in this section, our international operations are also subject to a number of other risks, including: Acquisitions, investments, divestitures or significant commercial arrangements could result in operating and financial difficulties. We have acquired, invested in, divested or entered into significant commercial arrangements with a number of businesses in the past, and our future growth may depend, in part, on such transactions, any of which could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. Certain financial and operational risks related to such transactions that may have a material impact on our business are: 16 Moreover, we rely heavily on the representations and warranties and related indemnities provided to us by the sellers of acquired private companies, including as they relate to creation, ownership and rights in intellectual property and compliance with laws and contractual requirements. Our failure to address these risks or other problems encountered in connection with past or future acquisitions and investments could cause us to fail to realize the anticipated benefits of such acquisitions or investments, incur unanticipated liabilities and harm our business generally. We rely on the performance of highly skilled personnel and, if we are unable to retain or motivate key personnel or hire, retain and motivate qualified personnel, our business would be harmed. Our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. Our future success depends on our continuing ability to identify, hire, develop, motivate and retain highly skilled personnel for all areas of our organization. In particular, the contributions of Barry Diller, our Chairman and Senior Executive, and Peter Kern, our Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, are critical to the overall management of the company. Expedia Group cannot ensure that it will be able to retain the services of Mr. Diller, Mr. Kern or any other member of our senior management or key employees, the loss of whom could seriously harm our business. We do not maintain any key person life insurance policies. Competition for well-qualified employees in certain aspects of our business, including software engineers, developers, product management personnel, development personnel, and other technology professionals, also remains intense. Our continued ability to compete effectively depends on our ability to attract new employees and to retain and motivate our existing employees. For example, restrictions on travel related to the COVID-19 pandemic may negatively affect our ability to attract and retain employees on a global basis. We may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of our plans to increase our operational efficiencies and our restructuring efforts may adversely affect our business. During 2019, we initiated a restructuring of portions of our global workforce in an effort to simplify and streamline our organization, improve our cost structure and the operation of our overall businesses. In February 2020, we announced our intention to pursue operating cost savings by further simplifying our organization, streamlining priorities and operating more 17 efficiently and due to the COVID-19 pandemic, we implemented certain additional operational cost saving actions beyond what had been originally planned. The operational efficiencies and restructuring actions we undertook in 2019 and 2020 as well as future actions may not achieve our targeted operational cost savings, improvements and efficiencies, which could adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, implementing any restructuring plan presents significant potential risks that may impair our ability to achieve anticipated operating improvements and/or cost reductions. These risks include, among others, higher than anticipated costs in implementing our restructuring plans, management distraction from ongoing business activities, failure to maintain adequate controls and procedures while executing our restructuring plans, damage to our reputation and brand image. Additionally, as a result of restructuring initiatives, we may experience a loss of continuity, loss of accumulated knowledge and/or inefficiency, adverse effects on employee morale and productivity, or our ability to attract and retain highly skilled employees. Any of these consequences could adversely impact our business. We are exposed to various counterparty risks. We are exposed to the risk that various counterparties, including financial entities, will fail to perform. This creates risk in a number of areas, including with respect to our bank deposits and investments, foreign exchange risk management, insurance coverages, letters of credit, and for certain of our transactions, the receipt and holding of traveler payments and subsequent remittance of a portion of those payments to travel suppliers. As it relates to deposits, as of December 31, 2020, we held cash in bank depository accounts of approximately $3.1 billion. Additionally, majority-owned subsidiaries held cash of approximately $214 million and held term deposits of approximately $73 million. As it relates to foreign exchange, as of December 31, 2020, we were party to forward contracts with a notional value of approximately $1.4 billion, the fair value of which was a liability of approximately $14 million. We employ forward contracts to hedge a portion of our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. At the end of the deposit term or upon the maturity of the forward contracts, the counterparties are obligated, or potentially obligated in the case of forward contracts, to return our funds or pay us net settlement values. If any of these counterparties were to liquidate, declare bankruptcy or otherwise cease operations, it may not be able to satisfy its obligations under these term deposits or forward contracts, our ability to recover losses or to access or recover our assets held may be limited by the counterparty’s liquidity or the applicable laws governing the insolvency or bankruptcy proceeding, and the receipt and remittance of payments via such counterparties would be severely limited or cease. I n addition, we face significant credit risk and potential payment delays with respect to non-financial contract counterparties including our Expedia Business Services and Vrbo partners, which may be exacerbated by economic downturns. The realization of any of these risks could have an adverse impact on our business and financial performance. We have foreign exchange risk. We face exposure to movements in currency exchange rates (particularly those related to the British pound sterling, euro, Canadian dollar, Australian dollar, Thai baht, Brazilian real, and Nordic currencies) that revalue our cash flows, monetary assets and liabilities, and translate our foreign subsidiary financial results to U.S. dollars. In particular, we face exposure related to fluctuations in accommodation revenue due to relative currency movements from the time of booking to the time of stay as well as the impact of relative exchange rate movements on cross-border travel such as from Europe to the United States and the United States to Europe. Depending on the size of the exposures and the relative movements of exchange rates, if we choose not to hedge or fail to hedge effectively our exposure, we could experience a material adverse effect on our financial statements and financial condition. We make a number of estimates in conducting hedging activities including in some cases cancellations and payments in foreign currencies. In addition, an effective exchange rate hedging program is dependent upon effective systems, accurate and reliable data sources, controls and change management procedures. In the event our estimates differ significantly from actual results or if we fail to adopt effective hedging processes, we could experience greater volatility as a result of our hedging activities. Legal and Regulatory Risks Our alternative accommodations business is subject to regulatory risks, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial results. Our alternative accommodations business has been, and continues to be, subject to regulatory developments that affect the alternative accommodation industry and the ability of companies like us to list those alternative accommodations online. For example, certain domestic and foreign jurisdictions have adopted or are considering statutes or ordinances that prohibit or limit the ability of property owners and managers to rent certain properties for fewer than 30 consecutive days, or that regulate short term rental platforms’ ability to list alternative accommodations, including prohibiting the listing of unlicensed properties. Other domestic and foreign jurisdictions may introduce similar regulations. Many homeowners, condominium and neighborhood associations have adopted rules that prohibit or restrict short-term rentals. In addition, many of the laws that 18 impose taxes or other obligations on travel and lodging companies were established before the growth of the internet and the alternative accommodation industry, which creates a risk of those laws being interpreted in ways not originally intended that could burden property owners and managers or otherwise harm our business. These risks could have a material adverse effect on our alternative accommodations business and results of operations, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on Expedia Group’s operations and financial results. A failure to comply with current laws, rules and regulations or changes to such laws, rules and regulations and other legal uncertainties may adversely affect our business, financial performance, results of operations or business growth. Our business and financial performance could be adversely affected by unfavorable changes in or interpretations of existing laws, rules and regulations or the promulgation of new laws, rules and regulations applicable to us and our businesses, including those relating to travel and alternative accommodation licensing and listing requirements, the provision of travel packages, the internet and online commerce, internet advertising and price display, consumer protection, licensing and regulations relating to the offer of travel insurance and related products, anti-corruption, anti-trust and competition, economic and trade sanctions, tax, banking, data security, the provision of payment services and privacy. For example, there are, and will likely continue to be, an increasing number of laws and regulations pertaining to the internet and online commerce that may relate to liability for information retrieved from or transmitted over the internet, display of certain taxes and fees, online editorial and user-generated content, user privacy, behavioral targeting and online advertising, taxation, liability for third-party activities and the quality of products and services. Additionally, some jurisdictions have implemented or are considering implementing regulations that restrict or could restrict access to city centers and p opular destinations as well as impact our ability to offer accommodations, such as by limiting the construction of new hotels or renting of alternative accommodations. Also, compliance with the European Economic Community (“EEC”) Council Directive on Package Travel, Package Holidays and Package Tours could be costly and complex, and could adversely impact our ability to offer certain packages in the EEC. Likewise, the SEC, Department of Justice (“DOJ”) and Office of Foreign Assets Controls (“OFAC”), as well as foreign regulatory authorities, have continued to increase the enforcement of economic sanctions and trade regulations, anti-money laundering, and anti-corruption laws, across industries. As regulations continue to evolve and regulatory oversight continues to increase, we cannot guarantee that our programs and policies will be deemed compliant by all applicable regulatory authorities. For example, on May 17, 2019, we entered into a settlement agreement with OFAC regarding 2,221 potentially non-compliant Cuba-related travel transactions that occurred between 2011-2014, which we voluntarily disclosed to OFAC in 2014. In connection with the settlement agreement, we made significant enhancements to our economic sanctions compliance program and associated controls. OFAC agreed to release us, without any finding of fault, from all civil liability in connection with the potential violations. In the event our controls should fail or are found to be out of compliance for other reasons, we could be subject to monetary damages, civil and criminal money penalties, litigation and damage to our reputation and the value of our brands. We also have been subject, and we will likely be subject in the future, to inquiries or legal proceedings from time to time from regulatory bodies concerning compliance with economic sanctions, consumer protection, competition, tax and travel industry-specific laws and regulations, including but not limited to investigations and legal proceedings relating to the travel industry and, in particular, parity provisions in contracts between hotels and online travel companies, including Expedia Group, and the presentation of information to consumers, as described in Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings - Competition and Consumer Matters. The failure of our businesses to comply with these laws and regulations could result in fines and/or proceedings against us by governmental agencies and/or consumers which, if material, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Application of existing tax laws, rules or regulations are subject to interpretation by taxing authorities. The application of domestic and international income and non-income tax laws, rules and regulations to our historical and new products and services is subject to interpretation by the relevant taxing authorities.  Given a focus on revenue generation, taxing authorities have become more aggressive in their enforcement of such laws, rules and regulations, resulting in increased audit activity and audit assessments, and legislation, including new taxes on our technology platform and digital services. As such, potential tax liabilities may exceed our current tax reserves or may require us to modify our business practices and incur additional cost to comply, any of which may have a material adverse effect on our business. A number of taxing authorities have made inquiries, filed lawsuits, and/or levied assessments asserting we are required to collect and/or remit state and local sales or use taxes, value added taxes, or other transactional taxes related to our travel facilitation services, including the legal proceedings described in Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings. In the past been we have been required, and in the future may be required, in certain domestic and foreign jurisdictions to pay substantial tax assessments prior to contesting their validity.  A description of recent significant “pay-to-play” payments and refunds, as well as ongoing tax inquiries or audits in other “pay-to-play” jurisdictions, is included in NOTE 15 — Commitments and Contingencies in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. 19 Significant judgment and estimation is required in determining our worldwide tax liabilities.  In the ordinary course of our business, there are transactions and calculations, including cross-jurisdictional transfer pricing, for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain or otherwise subject to interpretation. Taxing authorities may disagree with our cross-jurisdictional transfer pricing, including the amount or support for such charges. We believe our tax estimates are reasonable, however the final determination of tax audits may be materially different from our historical tax provisions and accruals in which case we may be subject to additional tax liabilities, potentially including interest and penalties, which could have a material adverse effect on our cash flows, financial condition and results of operations. The enactment of legislation implementing changes in taxation of domestic or international business activities, the adoption of other corporate tax reform policies, or changes in tax legislation or policies could materially affect our financial position and results of operations. Many of the statutory laws, rules, and regulations imposing taxes and other obligations were enacted before the growth of the digital economy. Certain jurisdictions have enacted new tax laws, rules, and regulations directed at taxing the digital economy and multi-national businesses. If existing tax laws, rules, or regulations change, by amendment or new legislation, with respect to occupancy tax, sales tax, value-added taxes, goods and services tax, digital services tax, withholding taxes, revenue based taxes, unclaimed property, or other tax laws applicable to the digital economy or multi-national businesses, the result of these changes could increase our tax liabilities. Potential outcomes include, prospectively or retrospectively, additional responsibility to collect and remit indirect taxes, including on behalf of travel suppliers, imposition of interest and penalties, multiple levels of taxation, and an obligation to comply with information reporting laws or regulations requiring us to provide information about travel suppliers, customers, and transactions on our technology platform. The outcome of these changes may have an adverse effect on our business or financial performance.  Demand for our products and services may decrease if we pass on such costs to the consumer; tax reporting and compliance obligations may result in increased costs to update or expand our technical or administrative infrastructure, or effectively limit the scope of our business activities if we decide not to conduct business in particular jurisdictions. Taxing authorities have focused legislative efforts on tax reform, transparency, and base erosion prevention. As a result, policies regarding corporate income and other taxes in various jurisdictions are under heightened scrutiny and tax reform legislation is being proposed or enacted in several jurisdictions. In general, changes in tax laws may affect our effective tax rate, increase our tax liabilities, and impact the value of deferred tax balances. Since releasing its interim report in 2018, the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (“OECD”) has proposed measures to address corporate tax challenges of the digital economy. These measures include “Pillar One and Pillar Two” reports that focus on nexus, profit allocation, and minimum tax proposals. As the OECD continues its evaluation of these proposals, several territories have enacted or proposed measures to impose new digital services taxes on companies. These taxes are incremental to taxes historically incurred by the Company and result in taxation of the same revenue in multiple countries. The enacted and proposed measures may have an adverse effect on our business or financial performance. Our tax liabilities in the future may also be adversely affected by changes to our operating structure, changes in the mix of revenue and earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax balances, or the discontinuance of beneficial tax arrangements in certain jurisdictions. We continue to work with relevant governmental authorities and legislators, as appropriate, to clarify our obligations under existing, new, and emerging tax laws, rules, and regulations. However, due to the increasing pace of legislative changes and the scale of our business activities, any substantial changes in tax policies, enforcement activities, or legislative initiatives may materially and adversely affect our business, the taxes we are required to pay, our financial position, and results of operations. We are involved in various legal proceedings and may experience unfavorable outcomes, which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. We are involved in various legal proceedings and disputes involving taxes, personal injury, contract, alleged infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, antitrust, consumer protection, securities laws, and other claims, including, but not limited to, the legal proceedings described in Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings. These matters may involve claims for substantial amounts of money or for other relief that might necessitate changes to our business or operations. The defense of these actions has been, and will likely continue to be, both time consuming and expensive and the outcomes of these actions cannot be predicted with certainty. Determining reserves for pending litigation is a complex, fact-intensive process that requires significant legal judgment. It is possible that unfavorable outcomes in one or more such proceedings could result in substantial payments that could adversely affect our business, consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows in a particular period. 20 We cannot be sure that our intellectual property and proprietary information is protected from all forms of copying or use by others, including potential competitors. Our websites and mobile applications rely on content, brands, trademarks, domain names and technology, much of which is proprietary. We establish and protect our intellectual property by relying on a combination of trademark, domain name, copyright, trade secret and patent laws in the U.S. and other jurisdictions, license and confidentiality agreements, and internal policies and procedures. In connection with our license agreements with third parties, we seek to control access to, and the use and distribution of, our proprietary information and intellectual property. Even with these precautions, however, third parties may copy or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property or confusingly similar trademarks or domain names without our authorization or to develop similar intellectual property independently. Effective trademark, domain name, copyright, patent and trade secret protection may not be available in every jurisdiction in which our services are available and policing unauthorized use of our intellectual property is difficult and expensive. We cannot be sure that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriation or infringement of intellectual property. Any misappropriation or violation of our rights could have a material adverse effect on our business. Furthermore, we may need to go to court or other tribunals to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. These proceedings might result in substantial costs and diversion of resources and management attention. We currently license from third parties some of the technologies, content and brands incorporated into our websites. As we continue to introduce new services that incorporate new technologies, content and brands, we may be required to license additional technology, content or brands. We cannot be sure that such technology, content and brand licenses will be available on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. Technology, Information Protection and Privacy Risks We rely on information technology to operate our businesses and maintain our competitiveness, and any failure to invest in and adapt to technological developments and industry trends could harm our business. We depend on the use of sophisticated information technologies and systems in many areas of our business including technology and systems used for website and mobile applications, reservations, customer service, supplier connectivity, marketing, communications, procurement, payments, tax collection and remittance, fraud detection and administration, which we must continuously improve and upgrade. Our future success also depends on our ability to adapt our services and infrastructure to meet rapidly evolving consumer trends and demands while continuing to improve the performance, features and reliability of our service in response to competitive service and product offerings. Cloud computing, the continued growth of alternative platforms and mobile computing devices, the emergence of niche competitors who may be able to optimize products, services or strategies that use cloud computing or for such platforms, as well as other technological changes, including new devices, services and home assistants, and developing technologies, have, and will continue to require, new and costly investments. Transitioning to these new technologies may be disruptive to resources and the services we provide, and may increase our reliance on third party service providers. For example, we are in the midst of a multi-year project to migrate products, data storage and functionality and significantly increase our utilization of public cloud computing services, such as Amazon Web Services. We have been engaged in a multi-year effort to migrate key portions of our consumer, affiliate and corporate travel sites, and back office application functionality, to new technology platforms, such as cloud computing services, to enable us to improve conversion, innovate more rapidly, achieve better search engine optimization and improve our site merchandising and transaction processing capabilities, among other anticipated benefits. Implementations and system enhancements such as these have been in the past, and may continue to be in the future, more time consuming and expensive than originally anticipated, and the resources devoted to those efforts have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, our ability to develop new site features. System interruption, security breaches and the lack of redundancy in our information systems may harm our businesses. The risk of a cybersecurity-related attack, intrusion, or disruption, including through spyware, viruses, phishing, denial of service and similar attacks by criminal organizations, hacktivists, foreign governments, and terrorists, is persistent. In addition, as we continue to migrate legacy systems to new or existing information technology systems, we increase the risk of system interruptions. We have experienced and may in the future experience system interruptions that make some or all of these systems unavailable or prevent us from efficiently fulfilling orders or providing services to third parties. Significant interruptions, outages or delays in our internal systems, or systems of third parties that we rely upon - including multiple co-location providers for data centers, cloud computing providers for application hosting, and network access providers - and network access, or deterioration in the performance of such systems, would impair our ability to process transactions, decrease our quality of service that we can offer to our customers, damage our reputation and brands, increase our costs and/or cause 21 losses. We also face risks related to our ability to maintain data and hardware security with respect to remote working during the COVID-19 pandemic. In addition, no assurance can be given that our backup systems or contingency plans will sustain critical aspects of our operations or business processes in all circumstances. Although we have put measures in place to protect certain portions of our facilities and assets, any of these events could cause system interruption, delays and loss of critical data, and could prevent us from providing services to our travelers and/or third parties for a significant period of time. We process, store and use customer, supplier and employee personal, financial and other data, which subjects us to risks stemming from possible failure to comply with governmental regulation and other legal obligations, as well as litigation and reputational risks associated with the failure to protect such data from unauthorized use, theft or destruction. There are numerous laws regarding the storing, sharing, use, processing, disclosure and protection of customer and employee personal, financial and other data, the scope of which is changing, subject to differing interpretations, and may be inconsistent between countries or conflict with other rules. We strive to comply with all applicable laws, policies, legal obligations and industry codes of conduct relating to privacy and data protection. It is possible, however, that these obligations may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another and may conflict with other rules or the practices of our businesses. Any failure or perceived failure by us, or our service providers, to comply with, privacy-related legal obligations or any compromise of security that results in the unauthorized use, theft or destruction of such data, may result in a material loss of revenues from the potential adverse impact to our reputation and brand, our ability to retain customers or attract new customers and the potential disruption to our business and plans. In addition, such an event could result in violations of applicable U.S. and international laws, governmental enforcement actions and consumer or securities litigation. We are subject to privacy regulations, and compliance with these regulations could impose significant compliance burdens. The regulatory framework for privacy issues worldwide is currently in flux and is likely to remain so for the foreseeable future. Practices regarding the collection, use, storage, transmission and security of personal information by companies operating over the internet have recently come under increased public scrutiny. Some U.S. states, including California, have passed comprehensive privacy legislation or are considering privacy legislation. In addition, the General Data Protection Regulation, or GDPR, that went into effect in the European Union in May 2018, requires companies to implement and remain compliant with regulations regarding the handling of personal data. At least 12 additional countries in Asia, Eastern Europe and Latin America have passed or are considering similar privacy regulations, resulting in additional compliance burdens and uncertainty as to how some of these laws will be interpreted. We have invested, and expect to continue to invest, significant resources to comply with the GDPR and other privacy laws and regulations. Failure to meet any of the requirements of these laws and regulations could result in significant penalties or legal liability, adverse publicity and/or damage to our reputation, which could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Governance Risks Mr. Diller may be deemed to beneficially own shares representing approximately 29% of the outstanding voting power of Expedia Group. As of December 31, 2020, Mr. Diller may be deemed to have beneficially owned 100% of Expedia Group’s outstanding Class B common stock, representing approximately 29% of the total voting power of all shares of Expedia Group common stock and Class B common stock outstanding. In the future, Mr. Diller’s ownership percentage in Expedia Group could increase if he buys additional shares of Expedia Group common stock in open market purchases or otherwise, or if Expedia Group repurchases shares of its common stock. While it is possible that Mr. Diller may at some point in the future beneficially own more than 50% of the outstanding voting power of Expedia Group, the provisions of the Governance Agreement and Expedia Group’s amended and restated certificate of incorporation provide that, subject to limited exception, no current or future holder of Original Shares may participate in, or vote in favor of, or tender shares into, any change of control transaction involving at least 50% of the outstanding shares or voting power of capital stock of Expedia Group, unless such transaction provides for the same per share consideration and mix of consideration (or election right) and the same participation rights for shares of Expedia Group Class B common stock and shares of Expedia Group common stock. Additionally, the Governance Agreement does not provide Mr. Diller with any consent rights over corporate actions or matters. Mr. Diller is also currently the Chairman of Expedia Group’s Board of Directors and Senior Executive of Expedia Group. Expedia Group’s amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that the Chairman of the Board may only be removed without cause by the affirmative vote of at least 80% of the entire Board of Directors, which provision may not be amended, altered changed or repealed, or any provision inconsistent therewith adopted, without the approval of at least (1) 80% 22 of the entire Board of Directors and (2) 80% of the voting power of Expedia Group’s outstanding voting securities, voting together as a single class. As a result of Mr. Diller’s ownership interests and voting power, Mr. Diller is in a position to influence, and potentially control, significant corporate actions, including corporate transactions such as mergers, business combinations or dispositions of assets. Additionally, in the future, another holder of the Original Shares might have such a position of influence by virtue of ownership interests in the Original Shares. This concentrated control could discourage others from initiating any potential merger, takeover or other change of control transaction that may otherwise be beneficial to Expedia Group stockholders. Actual or potential conflicts of interest may develop between Expedia Group management and directors, on the one hand, and the management and directors of IAC, on the other. Mr. Diller serves as our Chairman of the Board of Directors and Senior Executive, while retaining his role as Chairman of the Board of Directors and Senior Executive of IAC/InterActiveCorp, or IAC. Each of Ms. Clinton and Mr. von Furstenberg also serves as a member of the Board of Directors of both Expedia Group and IAC. These overlapping relationships could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest for the directors or officers when facing decisions that may affect both IAC and Expedia Group. Mr. Diller in particular may also face conflicts of interest with regard to the allocation of his time between the companies. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that no officer or director of Expedia Group who is also an officer or director of IAC will be liable to Expedia Group or its stockholders for breach of any fiduciary duty by reason of the fact that any such individual directs a corporate opportunity to IAC instead of Expedia Group, or does not communicate information regarding a corporate opportunity to Expedia Group because the officer or director has directed the corporate opportunity to IAC. This corporate opportunity provision may have the effect of exacerbating the risk of conflicts of interest between the companies because the provision effectively shields an overlapping director/executive officer from liability for breach of fiduciary duty in the event that such director or officer chooses to direct a corporate opportunity to IAC instead of Expedia Group. Risks Related to Ownership of our Stock Our stock price is highly volatile. The market price of our common stock is highly volatile and could continue to be subject to wide fluctuations in response to, among other risks, the risks described in this Item 1A, as well as: Volatility in our stock price could also make us less attractive to certain investors, and/or invite speculative trading in our common stock or debt instruments.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

Overview Expedia Group's mission is to power global travel for everyone, everywhere. We believe travel is a force for good. Travel is an essential human experience that strengthens connections, broadens horizons and bridges divides. We help reduce the barriers to travel, making it easier, more enjoyable, more attainable and more accessible. We bring the world within reach for customers and partners around the globe. We leverage our supply portfolio, platform and technology capabilities across an extensive portfolio of consumer brands, and provide solutions to our business partners, to orchestrate the movement of people and the delivery of travel experiences on both a local and global basis. We make available, on a stand-alone and package basis, travel services provided by numerous lodging properties, airlines, car rental companies, activities and experiences providers, cruise lines, alternative accommodations property owners and managers, and other travel product and service companies. We also offer travel and non-travel advertisers access to a potential source of incremental traffic and transactions through our various media and advertising offerings on our websites. For additional information about our portfolio of brands, see the disclosure set forth in Part I, Item 1, Business, under the caption “Management Overview.” This section of this Form 10-K generally discusses the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 items and year over year comparisons between 2020 and 2019. Discussions of the year ended December 31, 2018 items and the year over year comparisons between 2019 and 2018 that are not included in this Form 10-K can be found in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Part II, Item 7 of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019. All percentages within this section are calculated on actual, unrounded numbers. Trends The COVID-19 pandemic, and measures to contain the virus, including government travel restrictions and quarantine orders, have had a significant negative impact on the travel industry. COVID-19 has negatively impacted consumer sentiment and consumer’s ability to travel, and many of our supply partners, particularly airlines and hotels, continue to operate at reduced service levels. As the spread of the virus has been contained to varying degrees in certain countries, some travel restrictions have been lifted and consumers have become more comfortable traveling, particularly to domestic locations. This has led to a moderation of the declines in travel bookings and in cancellation rates compared to the March and April 2020 time period. However, travel booking volume remains significantly below prior year levels and cancellation levels remain elevated compared to pre-COVID levels. The degree of containment of the virus, and the recovery in travel, has varied country by country. During the recovery period, there have been instances where cases of COVID-19 have started to increase again after a period of decline, which in some cases impacted the recovery of travel in certain countries. While many countries have begun the process of vaccinating their residents against COVID-19, the large scale and challenging logistics of distributing t he vaccines, as well as uncertainty over the efficacy of the vaccine against new variants of the virus, may contribute to delays in economic recovery. COVID-19 has also had broader economic impacts, including an increase in unemployment levels and reduction in economic activity, which could lead to recession and further reduction in consumer or business spending on travel activities, which may negatively impact the timing and level of a recovery in travel demand. Broader, sustained negative economic impacts could also put strain on our suppliers, business and service partners which increases the risk of credit losses and service level or other disruptions. Our financial and operating results for 2020 were significantly impacted due to the decrease in travel demand related to COVID-19. We expect the impact to the overall travel market, and our business, to continue into 2021. The full duration and total impact of COVID-19 remains uncertain and it is difficult to predict how the recovery will unfold for the travel industry and, in particular, our business. Additionally, further health-related events, political instability, geopolitical conflicts, acts of terrorism, significant fluctuations in currency values, sovereign debt issues, and natural disasters, are examples of other events that could have a negative impact on the travel industry in the future. Prior to the onset of COVID-19, we began to execute a cost savings initiative aimed at simplifying the organization and increasing efficiency. Following the onset of COVID-19, we accelerated execution on several of these cost savings initiatives and took additional actions to reduce costs to help mitigate the impact to demand from COVID-19 and reduce our monthly cash usage. While some cost actions during COVID-19 are temporary and intended to minimize cash usage during this disruption, we expect to continue to benefit from the majority of the savings when business conditions return to more normalized levels. Overall, we now expect annualized run-rate fixed cost savings of $700 to $750 million, and we continue to evaluate additional opportunities to increase efficiency and improve operational effectiveness across the Company. In addition to the actions to reduce fixed costs, we are executing initiatives to reduce certain variable costs and improve our marketing efficiency. 31 As a result of these cost savings initiatives, we expect Adjusted EBITDA margins to increase compared to historical levels when revenue returns to more normalized levels. For additional information about our business strategy for Expedia Group, see the disclosure set forth in Part I, Item 1, Business, under the caption “Marketing Opportunity and Business Strategy.” Online Travel Increased usage and familiarity with the internet are driving rapid growth in online penetration of travel expenditures. According to Phocuswright, an independent travel, tourism and hospitality research firm, in 2019, approximately 45% of U.S. and European leisure and unmanaged corporate travel expenditures occurred online. This figure was estimated to reach approximately 50% in 2020, prior to the outbreak of COVID-19. Online penetration rates in the emerging markets, such as Asia Pacific and Latin American regions, are lagging behind that of the United States and Europe. These penetration rates increased over the past few years, and are expected to continue growing, which presents an attractive growth opportunity for our business, while also attracting many competitors to online travel. This competition intensified in recent years, and the industry is expected to remain highly competitive for the foreseeable future. In addition to the growth of online travel agencies, we see increased interest in the online travel industry from search engine companies such as Google, evidenced by continued product enhancements, including new trip planning features for users and the integration of its various travel products into the Google Travel offering, as well as further prioritizing its own products in search results. Competitive entrants such as “metasearch” companies, including Kayak.com (owned by Booking Holdings), trivago (in which Expedia Group owns a majority interest) as well as TripAdvisor, introduced differentiated features, pricing and content compared with the legacy online travel agency companies, as well as various forms of direct or assisted booking tools. Further, airlines and lodging companies are aggressively pursuing direct online distribution of their products and services. In addition, the increasing popularity of the “sharing economy,” accelerated by online penetration, has had a direct impact on the travel and lodging industry. Businesses such as Airbnb, Vrbo (previously HomeAway, which Expedia Group acquired in December 2015) and Booking.com (owned by Booking Holdings) have emerged as the leaders, bringing incremental alternative accommodation and vacation rental inventory to the market. Many other competitors, including vacation rental metasearch players, continue to emerge in this space, which is expected to continue to grow as a percentage of the global accommodation market. Finally, traditional consumer ecommerce and group buying websites expanded their local offerings into the travel market by adding hotel offers to their websites. The online travel industry also saw the development of alternative business models and variations in the timing of payment by travelers and to suppliers, which in some cases place pressure on historical business models. In particular, the agency hotel model saw rapid adoption in Europe. Expedia Group facilitates both merchant (Expedia Collect) and agency (Hotel Collect) hotel offerings with our hotel supply partners through both agency-only contracts as well as our hybrid ETP program, which offers travelers the choice of whether to pay Expedia Group at the time of booking or pay the hotel at the time of stay. We have recently shifted to managing our marketing investments holistically across the brand portfolio in our Retail segment to optimize results for the Company, and making decisions on a market by market and customer segment basis that we think are appropriate based on the relative growth opportunity, the expected returns and the competitive environment. Over time, intense competition historically led to aggressive marketing efforts by the travel suppliers and intermediaries, and a meaningful unfavorable impact on our overall marketing efficiencies and operating margins. During 2020, we have increased our focus on opportunities to differentiate brands across customer and geographic segments, increase marketing efficiency, drive a higher proportion of transactions through direct channels and ultimately improve the balance of transaction growth and profitability. For more detail, see Part I, Item 1A, Risk Factors - "We rely on the value of our brands, and the costs of maintaining and enhancing our brand awareness are increasing” and “Our international operations involve additional risks and our exposure to these risks will increase as our business expands globally.” Lodging Lodging includes hotel accommodations and alternative accommodations. As a percentage of our total worldwide revenue in 2020, lodging accounted for 78%. As a result of the impact on travel demand from the COVID-19 outbreak, room nights declined 55% in 2020 as compared to growth of 11% in 2019 and 13% in 2018. The timing of recovery in consumer sentiment on travel and on staying at hotels will be a factor in our level of room night growth, and as noted above, we expect that to vary by country. Average Daily Rates (“ADRs”) for rooms booked on Expedia Group websites increased 5% in 2018, decreased 1% in 2019, and increased 3% in 2020. During 2020, the year-over-year increase in ADRs for our Vrbo business remained elevated compared to years prior to the COVID-19 outbreak and Vrbo, which carries a higher ADR than hotels, accounted for a higher percentage of room nights due to the faster recovery in alternative accommodations during this period. This was partially offset by declines in hotel ADRs. The uncertain environment related to COVID-19, and the potential for a higher degree of discounting activity due to the lower travel demand, could result in continued hotel ADR declines for a period of time. Similarly, fluctuations in supply and 32 demand for alternative accommodations, could impact ADRs for Vrbo. In addition, travel restrictions and shift in consumer behavior during COVID-19 that impact the mix of our lodging bookings across geographies and types of accommodations could impact total ADRs. Given these dynamics, it is difficult to predict ADR trends in the near-term. As of December 31, 2020, our global lodging marketplace had over 2.9 million lodging properties available, including over 2 million online bookable alternative accommodations listings and approximately 880,000 hotels. Hotel. We generate the majority of our revenue through the facilitation of hotel reservations (stand-alone and package bookings). After rolling out ETP globally over a period of several years, during which time we reduced negotiated economics in certain instances to compensate for hotel supply partners absorbing expenses such as credit card fees and customer service costs, our relationships and overall economics with hotel supply partners have been broadly stable in recent years. As we continue to expand the breadth and depth of our global hotel offering, in some cases we have reduced our economics in various geographies based on local market conditions. These impacts are due to specific initiatives intended to drive greater global size and scale through faster overall room night growth. Additionally, increased promotional activities such as growing loyalty programs contribute to declines in revenue per room night and profitability. Since our hotel supplier agreements are generally negotiated on a percentage basis, any increase or decrease in ADRs has an impact on the revenue we earn per room night. Over the course of the last several years, occupancies and ADRs in the lodging industry generally increased on a currency-neutral basis in a gradually improving overall travel environment. However, with certain travel restrictions and quarantine orders implemented due to COVID-19, current occupancy rates for hotels in the United States are at significantly reduced levels and ADRs could decline for a period of time. In addition, other factors could pressure ADR trends, including the continued growth in hotel supply in recent years and the increase in alternative accommodation inventory. Further, while the global lodging industry remains very fragmented, there has been consolidation in the hotel space among chains as well as ownership groups. In the meantime, certain hotel chains have been focusing on driving direct bookings on their own websites and mobile applications by advertising lower rates than those available on third-party websites as well as incentives such as loyalty points, increased or exclusive product availability and complimentary Wi-Fi. Alternative Accommodations. With our acquisition of Vrbo (previously HomeAway) and all of its brands in December 2015, we expanded into the fast growing alternative accommodations market. Vrbo is a leader in this market and represents an attractive growth opportunity for Expedia Group. Vrbo has transitioned from a listings-based classified advertising model to an online transactional model that optimizes for both travelers and homeowner and property manager partners, with a goal of increasing monetization and driving growth through investments in marketing as well as in product and technology. Vrbo offers hosts subscription-based listing or pay-per-booking service models. It also generates revenue from a traveler service fee for bookings. In addition, we have actively moved to integrate Vrbo listings into our global Retail services, as well as directly add alternative accommodation listings to our offerings, to position our key global brands to offer a full range of lodging options for consumers. Air The airline industry has been dramatically impacted by COVID-19. As a result of the significantly reduced air travel demand due to government travel restrictions and the impact on consumer sentiment related to COVID-19, airlines have been operating with less capacity and passenger traffic has declined significantly. During the third and fourth quarter of 2020, air passenger traffic declines further moderated and remained stable, but continue to lag the recover in lodging bookings. The recovery in air travel remains difficult to predict, and may not correlate with the recovery in lodging demand. According to the Transportation Security Administration (“TSA”), air traveler 7-day average throughput declined 95% in April 2020 compared to prior year levels. The declines moderated to down 73% in mid-July 2020 and have largely stabilized in the 60 to 65% range since mid-October. In addition, as of late November, the International Air Transport Association (“IATA”) expected airline passenger traffic to increase approximately 55% in 2021 compared to 2020 levels, representing a decline of nearly 40% compared to 2019 levels. In addition, there is significant correlation between airline revenue and fuel prices, and fluctuations in fuel prices generally take time to be reflected in air revenue. Given current volatility, it is uncertain how fuel prices could impact airfares. We could encounter pressure on air remuneration as air carriers combine, certain supply agreements renew, and as we continue to add airlines to ensure local coverage in new markets. Air ticket volumes increased 5% in 2018 and 7% in 2019, and declined 63% in 2020. As a percentage of our total worldwide revenue in 2020, air accounted for 2%. Advertising & Media Our advertising and media business is principally driven by revenue generated by trivago, a leading hotel metasearch website, and Expedia Group Media Solutions, which is responsible for generating advertising revenue on our global online travel brands. In 2020, we generated $ 405 million of advertising and media revenue, a 63% decline from 2019, representing 8% of our total worldwide revenue. Given the decline in travel demand related to COVID-19, online travel agencies have 33 dramatically reduced marketing spend, including on trivago, and given the uncertain duration and impact of COVID-19 it is difficult to predict when spend will recover to normalized levels. In response, trivago has significantly reduced its marketing spend and taken additional actions to lower operating expenses. We expect trivago to continue to experience significant pressure on revenue and profit until online travel agencies and other hotel suppliers begin to see consumer demand that warrants an increase in marketing spend. Seasonality We generally experience seasonal fluctuations in the demand for our travel services. For example, traditional leisure travel bookings are generally the highest in the first three quarters as travelers plan and book their spring, summer and winter holiday travel. The number of bookings typically decreases in the fourth quarter. Because revenue for most of our travel services, including merchant and agency hotel, is recognized as the travel takes place rather than when it is booked, revenue typically lags bookings by several weeks for our hotel business and can be several months or more for our alternative accommodations business. Historically, Vrbo has seen seasonally stronger bookings in the first quarter of the year, with the relevant stays occurring during the peak summer travel months. The seasonal revenue impact is exacerbated with respect to income by the nature of our variable cost of revenue and direct sales and marketing costs, which we typically realize in closer alignment to booking volumes, and the more stable nature of our fixed costs. Furthermore, operating profits for our primary advertising business, trivago, have typically been experienced in the second half of the year, particularly the fourth quarter, as selling and marketing costs offset revenue in the first half of the year as we typically increase marketing during the busy booking period for spring, summer and winter holiday travel. As a result on a consolidated basis, revenue and income are typically the lowest in the first quarter and highest in the third quarter. The growth of our international operations, advertising business or a change in our product mix, including the growth of Vrbo, may influence the typical trend of the seasonality in the future. Due to COVID-19, which led to significant cancellations for future travel during the first half of 2020, and has impacted new travel bookings for the majority of 2020, we have not experienced our typical seasonal pattern for bookings, revenue and profit during the  past year. In addition, with the lower new bookings and elevated cancellations in the merchant business model, our typical, seasonal working capital source of cash has been significantly disrupted resulting in the Company experiencing unfavorable working capital trends and material negative cash flow during the first half of 2020 when we typically generate significant positive cash flow. Seasonal trends were more normalized during the second half of the year, but it is difficult to forecast the seasonality for the upcoming quarters, given the uncertainty related to the duration of the impact from COVID-19 and the shape and timing of any sustained recovery. In addition, we continue to experience shorter booking windows in our lodging businesses, which could also impact the seasonality of our working capital and cash flow. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Critical accounting policies and estimates are those that we believe are important in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements because they require that we use judgment and estimates in applying those policies. We prepare our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (“GAAP”). Preparation of the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes requires that we make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the consolidated financial statements as well as revenue and expenses during the periods reported. We base our estimates on historical experience, where applicable, and other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from our estimates under different assumptions or conditions. There are certain critical estimates that we believe require significant judgment in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. We consider an accounting estimate to be critical if: • It requires us to make an assumption because information was not available at the time or it included matters that were highly uncertain at the time we were making the estimate; and • Changes in the estimate or different estimates that we could have selected may have had a material impact on our financial condition or results of operations. For more information on each of these policies, see NOTE 2 — Significant Accounting Policies, in the notes to consolidated financial statements. We discuss information about the nature and rationale for our critical accounting estimates below. 34 Accounting for Certain Merchant Revenue We accrue the cost of certain merchant revenue based on the amount we expect to be billed by suppliers. In certain instances when a supplier invoices us for less than the cost we accrued, we generally reduce our merchant accounts payable and the supplier costs within net revenue six months in arrears, net of an allowance, when we determine it is not probable that we will be required to pay the supplier, based on historical experience. Actual revenue could be greater or less than the amounts estimated due to changes in hotel billing practices or changes in traveler behavior. Deferred Loyalty Rewards We offer certain internally administered traveler loyalty programs to our customers, such as our Hotels.com Rewards program, our Expedia Rewards program and our Orbitz Rewards program. Hotels.com Rewards offers travelers one free night at any Hotels.com partner property after that traveler stays 10 nights, subject to certain restrictions. Expedia Rewards enables participating travelers to earn points on all hotel, flight, package and activities made on over 40 Brand Expedia websites. Orbitz Rewards allows travelers to earn Orbucks, the currency of Orbitz Rewards, on flights, hotels and vacation packages and instantly redeem those Orbucks on future bookings at various hotels worldwide. As travelers accumulate points towards free travel products, we defer the relative standalone selling price of earned points, net of expected breakage, as deferred loyalty rewards within deferred merchant bookings on the consolidated balance sheet. In order to estimate the standalone selling price of the underlying services on which points can be redeemed for all loyalty programs, we use an adjusted market assessment approach and consider the redemption values expected from the traveler. We then estimate the number of rewards that will not be redeemed based on historical activity in our members' accounts as well as statistical modeling techniques. Revenue is recognized when we have satisfied our performance obligation relating to the points, that is when the travel service purchased with the loyalty award is satisfied. Both the actual standalone selling price of the underlying services and ultimate redemption rates could differ materially from our estimates due to a number of factors, including fluctuations in reward value, product utilization and divergence from historical member behavior. Recoverability of Goodwill and Indefinite and Definite-Lived Intangible Assets Goodwill . We assess goodwill for impairment annually as of October 1, or more frequently, if events and circumstances indicate impairment may have occurred. During 2020, as a result of the significant turmoil related to COVID-19, we concluded that sufficient indicators existed to require us to perform multiple interim impairment assessments. In the evaluation of goodwill for impairment, we typically perform a quantitative assessment and compare the fair value of the reporting unit to the carrying value and, if applicable, record an impairment charge based on the excess of the reporting unit's carrying amount over its fair value. Periodically, we may choose to perform a qualitative assessment, prior to performing the quantitative analysis, to determine whether the fair value of the goodwill is more likely than not impaired. We generally base our measurement of fair value of reporting units, except for trivago, which is a separately listed company on the Nasdaq Global Select Market, on a blended analysis of the present value of future discounted cash flows and market valuation approach with the exception of our standalone publicly traded subsidiary, which is based on market valuation. The discounted cash flows model indicates the fair value of the reporting units based on the present value of the cash flows that we expect the reporting units to generate in the future. Our significant estimates in the discounted cash flows model include: our weighted average cost of capital; long-term rate of growth and profitability of our business; and working capital effects. The market valuation approach indicates the fair value of the business based on a comparison of the Company to comparable publicly traded firms in similar lines of business. Our significant estimates in the market approach model include identifying similar companies with comparable business factors such as size, growth, profitability, risk and return on investment and assessing comparable revenue and operating income multiples in estimating the fair value of the reporting units. The fair value estimate for the trivago reporting unit was based on trivago's stock price, a Level 1 input, adjusted for an estimated control premium. We believe the weighted use of discounted cash flows and market approach is the best method for determining the fair value of our reporting units because these are the most common valuation methodologies used within the travel and internet industries; and the blended use of both models compensates for the inherent risks associated with either model if used on a stand-alone basis. In addition to measuring the fair value of our reporting units as described above, we consider the combined carrying and fair values of our reporting units in relation to the Company’s total fair value of equity plus debt as of the assessment date. Our equity value assumes our fully diluted market capitalization, using either the stock price on the valuation date or the average stock price over a range of dates around the valuation date, plus an estimated acquisition premium which is based on observable transactions of comparable companies. The debt value is based on the highest value expected to be paid to repurchase the debt, which can be fair value, principal or principal plus a premium depending on the terms of each debt instrument. 35 Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets . We base our measurement of fair value of indefinite-lived intangible assets, which primarily consist of trade name and trademarks, using the relief-from-royalty method. This method assumes that the trade name and trademarks have value to the extent that their owner is relieved of the obligation to pay royalties for the benefits received from them. This method requires us to estimate the future revenue for the related brands, the appropriate royalty rate and the weighted average cost of capital. Definite-Lived Intangible Assets. We review the carrying value of long-lived assets or asset groups to be used in operations whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets might not be recoverable. Factors that would necessitate an impairment assessment include a significant adverse change in the extent or manner in which an asset is used, a significant adverse change in legal factors or the business climate that could affect the value of the asset, or a significant decline in the observable market value of an asset, among others. If such facts indicate a potential impairment, we would assess the recoverability of an asset group by determining if the carrying value of the asset group exceeds the sum of the projected undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the assets over the remaining economic life of the primary asset in the asset group. If the recoverability test indicates that the carrying value of the asset group is not recoverable, we will estimate the fair value of the asset group using appropriate valuation methodologies, which would typically include an estimate of discounted cash flows. Any impairment would be measured as the difference between the asset groups carrying amount and its estimated fair value. The use of different estimates or assumptions in determining the fair value of our goodwill, indefinite-lived and definite-lived intangible assets may result in different values for these assets, which could result in an impairment or, in the period in which an impairment is recognized, could result in a materially different impairment charge. For additional information on our goodwill and intangible asset impairments recorded in 2020, see NOTE 3 — Fair Value Measurements in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Income Taxes We record income taxes under the liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect our estimation of the future tax consequences of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for book and tax purposes. We determine deferred income taxes based on the differences in accounting methods and timing between financial statement and income tax reporting. Accordingly, we determine the deferred tax asset or liability for each temporary difference based on the enacted tax rates expected to be in effect when we realize the underlying items of income and expense. We consider many factors when assessing the likelihood of future realization of our deferred tax assets, including our recent earnings experience by jurisdiction, expectations of future taxable income, and the carryforward periods available to us for tax reporting purposes, as well as other relevant factors. We may establish a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount we believe is more likely than not to be realized. Due to inherent complexities arising from the nature of our businesses, future changes in income tax law, tax sharing agreements or variances between our actual and anticipated operating results, we make certain judgments and estimates. Therefore, actual income taxes could materially vary from these estimates.All deferred income taxes are classified as long-term on our consolidated balance sheets. We account for uncertain tax positions based on a two-step process of evaluating recognition and measurement criteria. The first step assesses whether the tax position is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by the tax authority, including resolution of any appeals or litigation, based on the technical merits of the position. If the tax position meets the more likely than not criteria, the portion of the tax benefit greater than 50% likely to be realized upon settlement with the tax authority is recognized in the financial statements. The ultimate resolution of these tax positions may be greater or less than the liabilities recorded. Other Long-Term Liabilities Various Legal and Tax Contingencies . We record liabilities to address potential exposures related to business and tax positions we have taken that have been or could be challenged by taxing authorities. In addition, we record liabilities associated with legal proceedings and lawsuits. These liabilities are recorded when the likelihood of payment is probable and the amounts can be reasonably estimated. The determination for required liabilities is based upon analysis of each individual tax issue, or legal proceeding, taking into consideration the likelihood of adverse judgments and the range of possible loss. In addition, our analysis may be based on discussions with outside legal counsel. The ultimate resolution of these potential tax exposures and legal proceedings may be greater or less than the liabilities recorded. Occupancy and Other Taxes . Some states and localities impose taxes (e.g. transient occupancy, accommodation tax, sales tax and/or business privilege tax) on the use or occupancy of hotel accommodations or other traveler services. Generally, hotels collect taxes based on the rate paid to the hotel and remit these taxes to the various tax authorities. When a customer books a room through one of our travel services, we collect a tax recovery charge from the customer which we pay to the hotel. We 36 calculate the tax recovery charge by applying the applicable tax rate supplied to us by the hotels to the amount that the hotel has agreed to receive for the rental of the room by the consumer. In most jurisdictions, we do not collect or remit taxes, nor do we pay taxes to the hotel operator, on the portion of the customer payment we retain. Some jurisdictions have questioned our practice in this regard. While the applicable tax provisions vary among the jurisdictions, we generally believe that we are not required to pay such taxes. A limited number of taxing jurisdictions have made similar claims against Vrbo for tax amounts due on the rental amounts charged by owners of alternative accommodations properties or for taxes on Vrbo’s services. Vrbo is an intermediary between a traveler and a party renting an alternative accommodations property and we believe is similarly not liable for such taxes. We are engaged in discussions with tax authorities in various jurisdictions to resolve these issues. Some tax authorities have brought lawsuits or have levied assessments asserting that we are required to collect and remit tax. The ultimate resolution in all jurisdictions cannot be determined at this time. Certain jurisdictions may require us to pay tax assessments, including occupancy and other transactional tax assessments, prior to contesting any such assessments. We have established a reserve for the potential settlement of issues related to hotel occupancy and other tax litigation for prior and current periods, consistent with applicable accounting principles and in light of all current facts and circumstances. A variety of factors could affect the amount of the liability (both past and future), which factors include, but are not limited to, the number of, and amount of revenue represented by, jurisdictions that ultimately assert a claim and prevail in assessing such additional tax or negotiate a settlement and changes in relevant statutes. We note that there are more than 10,000 taxing jurisdictions in the United States, and it is not feasible to analyze the statutes, regulations and judicial and administrative rulings in every jurisdiction. Rather, we have obtained the advice of state and local tax experts with respect to tax laws of certain states and local jurisdictions that represent a large portion of our hotel revenue. Many of the statutes and regulations that impose these taxes were established before the emergence of the internet and ecommerce. Certain jurisdictions have enacted, and others may enact, legislation regarding the imposition of taxes on businesses that facilitate the booking of hotel or alternative accommodations. We continue to work with the relevant tax authorities and legislators to clarify our obligations under new and emerging laws and regulations. We will continue to monitor the issue closely and provide additional disclosure, as well as adjust the level of reserves, as developments warrant. Additionally, certain of our businesses are involved in tax related litigation, which is discussed in Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings. New Accounting Pronouncements For a discussion of new accounting pronouncements, see NOTE 2 — Significant Accounting Policies in the notes to consolidated financial statements. Occupancy and Other Taxes We are currently involved in nine lawsuits brought by or against states, cities and counties over issues involving the payment of hotel occupancy and other taxes. We continue to defend these lawsuits vigorously. With respect to the principal claims in these matters, we believe that the statutes and/or ordinances at issue do not apply to us or the services we provide, namely the facilitation of travel planning and reservations, and, therefore, that we do not owe the taxes that are claimed to be owed. We believe that the statutes and ordinances at issue generally impose occupancy and other taxes on entities that own, operate or control hotels (or similar businesses) or furnish or provide hotel rooms or similar accommodations. For additional information and other recent developments on these and other legal proceedings, see Part I, Item 3, Legal Proceedings. We have established a reserve for the potential settlement of issues related to hotel occupancy and other tax litigation, consistent with applicable accounting principles and in light of all current facts and circumstances, in the amount of $58 million as of December 31, 2020 and $48 million as of December 31, 2019. Certain jurisdictions, including without limitation the states of New York, New Jersey, North Carolina, Minnesota, Oregon, Rhode Island, Maryland, Pennsylvania, Hawaii, Iowa, Massachusetts, Arizona, Wisconsin, Idaho, Arkansas, Indiana, Maine, Nebraska, Vermont, the city of New York, and the District of Columbia, have enacted legislation seeking to tax online travel company services as part of sales or other taxes for hotel and/or other accommodations and/or car rental. In addition, in certain jurisdictions, we have entered into voluntary collection agreements pursuant to which we have agreed to voluntarily collect and remit taxes to state and/or local taxing jurisdictions. We are currently remitting taxes to a number of jurisdictions, including without limitation the states of New York, New Jersey, South Carolina, North Carolina, Minnesota, Georgia, Wyoming, West Virginia, Oregon, Rhode Island, Montana, Maryland, Kentucky, Maine, Pennsylvania, Hawaii, Iowa, Massachusetts, Arizona, Wisconsin, Idaho, Arkansas, Indiana, Nebraska, Vermont, the city of New York and the District of Columbia, as well as certain other jurisdictions. 37 Pay-to-Play Certain jurisdictions may assert that we are required to pay any assessed taxes prior to being allowed to contest or litigate the applicability of the ordinances. This prepayment of contested taxes is referred to as “pay-to-play.” Payment of these amounts is not an admission that we believe we are subject to such taxes and, even when such payments are made, we continue to defend our position vigorously. If we prevail in the litigation, for which a pay-to-play payment was made, the jurisdiction collecting the payment will be required to repay such amounts and also may be required to pay interest. However, any significant pay-to-play payment or litigation loss could negatively impact our liquidity. For additional information, see NOTE 15 — Commitments and Contingencies - Legal Proceedings - Pay-to-Play in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Other Jurisdictions. We are also in various stages of inquiry or audit with various tax authorities, some of which, including the City of Los Angeles regarding hotel occupancy taxes, may impose a pay-to-play requirement to challenge an adverse inquiry or audit result in court. Segments Beginning in the first quarter of 2020, we have the following reportable segments: Retail, B2B, and trivago. Our Retail segment provides a full range of travel and advertising services to our worldwide customers through a variety of consumer brands including: Expedia.com and Hotels.com in the United States and localized Expedia and Hotels.com websites throughout the world, Vrbo, Orbitz, Travelocity, Wotif Group, ebookers, CheapTickets, Hotwire.com, CarRentals.com, CruiseShipCenter and Classic Vacations. Our B2B segment is comprised of our Expedia Business Services organization including Expedia Partner Solutions, which offers private label and co-branded products to make travel services available to travelers through third-party company branded websites, and Egencia, a full-service travel management company that provides travel services to businesses and their corporate customers. Our trivago segment generates advertising revenue primarily from sending referrals to online travel companies and travel service providers from its hotel metasearch websites. Operating Metrics Our operating results are affected by certain metrics, such as gross bookings and revenue margin, which we believe are necessary for understanding and evaluating us. Gross bookings generally represent the total retail value of transactions booked for agency and merchant transactions, recorded at the time of booking reflecting the total price due for travel by travelers, including taxes, fees and other charges, and are reduced for cancellations and refunds. Revenue margin is defined as revenue as a percentage of gross bookings. Gross Bookings and Revenue Margin ___________________________________ (1) trivago, which is comprised of a hotel metasearch business that differs from our transaction-based websites, does not have associated gross bookings or revenue margin. However, third-party revenue from trivago is included in revenue used to calculate total revenue margin. The decrease in worldwide gross bookings in 2020 compared to 2019 was driven by the COVID-19 pandemic and the associated reduction in travel demand with declines across lodging, air and other travel products in the current year. Revenue margin in 2020 was higher than 2019 due in part to the significant lodging cancellations, which reduced gross bookings, creating an unusual mix of bookings and revenue in the year. Current period revenue margins are not indicative of our future expectations. 38 Results of Operations Revenue Similar to the gross bookings decline, revenue decreased 57% in 2020 compared to 2019 driven by the COVID-19 pandemic across all segments and lodging, air and other travel products. ___________________________________ (1) Includes third-party revenue from trivago as well as our transaction-based websites. Lodging revenue decreased 52% in 2020 on a 55% decrease in room nights stayed, partially offset by a 9% increase in revenue per room night. Revenue per room night in 2020 benefited from an increase in the percentage of room nights contributed by Vrbo, which has a higher revenue per room night than the rest of our lodging business, and transaction revenue related to Vrbo's transition to merchant of record. Air revenue decreased 88% in 2020 reflecting a 63% decline in tickets sold and a 67% decrease in revenue per ticket. The decline in revenue per ticket was primarily related to a shift in product mix. Advertising and media revenue decreased 63% in 2020 due to declines at trivago and Expedia Group Media Solutions. All other revenue, which includes car rental, insurance, destination services, fees related to our corporate travel business and revenue related to Bodybuilding.com (during the period of our ownership of July 2019 to May 2020), decreased by 63% in 2020 resulting from declines in insurance, driven by the adverse impact of contra-revenue related to customer claims created during COVID-19 with third-party insurance, as well as declines in car and corporate travel business revenue. In addition to the above segment and product revenue discussion, our revenue by business model is as follows: 39 The decrease in merchant revenue in 2020 was primarily due to the decrease in merchant hotel revenue driven by a decrease in room nights stayed and lower insurance revenue, partially offset by an increase in Vrbo merchant alternative accommodations revenue driven by Vrbo's transition to merchant of record. The decrease in agency revenue in 2020 was primarily due to the decline in agency hotel and air as well as Vrbo agency alternative accommodations revenue. Advertising, media and other decreased 53% in 2020 compared to 2019 due to declines in advertising revenue. Cost of Revenue Cost of revenue primarily consists of direct costs to support our customer operations, including our customer support and telesales as well as fees to air ticket fulfillment vendors; credit card processing, including merchant fees, fraud and chargebacks; and other costs, primarily including data center and cloud costs to support our websites, supplier operations, destination supply, certain transactional level taxes, costs related to Bodybuilding.com during our period of ownership as well as related personnel and overhead costs, including stock-based compensation. Cost of revenue decreased $397 million during 2020 compared to 2019, primarily due to a decline in merchant fees resulting from lower transaction volumes, a decline in customer service and personnel costs, and lower cloud expenses, partially offset by higher payment processing costs related to Vrbo’s transition to merchant of record and higher bad debt reserves related to future collection risk from the impact of COVID-19. Selling and Marketing Selling and marketing expense primarily relates to direct costs, including traffic generation costs from search engines and internet portals, television, radio and print spending, private label and affiliate program commissions, public relations and other costs. The remainder of the expense relates to indirect costs, including personnel and related overhead in our various brands and global supply organization as well as stock-based compensation costs. Selling and marketing expenses decreased $3.5 billion during 2020 compared to 2019 driven by a decrease in direct costs driven by a significant reduction in marketing spend starting in March 2020 and continuing throughout 2020 related to the impact on travel demand from COVID-19. The decrease in indirect costs was due to lower personnel and related costs, including lower incentive compensation costs resulting from the shift away from cash bonuses in 2020 to equity that will vest in 2021. 40 Technology and Content Technology and content expense includes product development and content expense, as well as information technology costs to support our infrastructure, back-office applications and overall monitoring and security of our networks, and is principally comprised of personnel and overhead, including stock-based compensation, as well as other costs including cloud expense and licensing and maintenance expense. Technology and content expense decreased $216 million for 2020 compared to 2019 primarily reflecting lower personnel and related costs, including lower incentive compensation costs. General and Administrative General and administrative expense consists primarily of personnel-related costs, including our executive leadership, finance, legal and human resource functions and related stock-based compensation, as well as fees for external professional services. General and administrative expense decreased $218 million in 2020 compared to 2019 mainly driven by lower personnel costs, including lower incentive compensation costs, lower professional fees and lower stock-based compensation of $34 million in part due to the fourth quarter of 2019 acceleration of expense related to the departure of our former CEO. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation increased $27 million in 2020 compared to 2019 due to depreciation related to our new headquarters and higher internal-use software and website development depreciation, partially offset by lower data center depreciation. Amortization of intangible assets decreased $44 million in 2020 compared to 2019 primarily due to the completion of amortization related to certain intangible assets as well as the impact of definite-lived intangible impairments in the current year. Impairment of Goodwill and Intangible Assets During 2020, as a result of the significant negative impact related to the COVID-19, which has had a severe effect on the entire global travel industry, we recognized goodwill impairment charges of $799 million as well as intangible asset impairment charges of $175 million. See NOTE 3 — Fair Value Measurements in the notes to the consolidated financial statements for further information. 41 Legal Reserves, Occupancy Tax and Other Legal reserves, occupancy tax and other primarily consists of increases in our reserves for court decisions and the potential and final settlement of issues related to hotel occupancy and other taxes, expenses recognized related to monies paid in advance of occupancy and other tax proceedings (“pay-to-play”) as well as certain other legal reserves. During 2020, we recorded a $25 million gain in relation to a legal settlement, which was partially offset by changes in our reserves related to occupancy and other matters. During 2019, we received a $10 million refund of prepaid pay-to-play amounts from the State of Hawaii in connection with the general excise tax litigation resulting in a corresponding benefit during the period, which nets down increases in reserves for occupancy tax and other matters. For additional information, see NOTE 15 — Commitments and Contingencies in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Restructuring and Related Reorganization Charges In late February 2020, we committed to restructuring actions intended to simplify our businesses and improve operational efficiencies, which have resulted in headcount reductions, and, subsequently in 2020, the Company accelerated further actions to adapt our business to the current environment. As a result, we recognized $231 million in restructuring and related reorganization charges during 2020. Based on current plans, which are subject to change, we expect total reorganization charges in 2021 of approximately $60 million. However, we continue to actively evaluate additional cost reduction efforts and should we make decisions in future periods to take further actions we will incur additional reorganization charges. We also engaged in certain smaller scale restructure actions in 2019 to centralize and migrate certain operational functions and systems, for which we recognized $24 million in restructuring and related reorganization charges during 2019, which were primarily related to severance, benefits and professional fees. Operating Income (Loss) In 2020, we had operating loss of $2.7 billion compared to operating income of $903 million in 2019 primarily due to significant declining revenue in 2020 resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic as well as the goodwill and intangible impairments and restructure charges mentioned above. Adjusted EBITDA by Segment ______________________________________ (1)        Includes immaterial operating results of Bodybuilding.com subsequent to our acquisition in July 2019 through its sale in May 2020. 42 (2)        Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP measure. See "Definition and Reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA" below for more    information. Adjusted EBITDA is our primary segment operating metric. See NOTE 19 — Segment Information in the notes to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on intersegment transactions, unallocated overhead costs and for a reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA by segment to net income (loss) attributable to Expedia Group, Inc. for the periods presented above. Our Retail, B2B and trivago segment Adjusted EBITDA significantly declined during 2020, compared to 2019, resulting from impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, which drove meaningful revenue declines, partially offset by a decline in direct sales and marketing expense as a percent of revenue. Unallocated overhead costs decreased $119 million during 2020 primarily due to lower general and administrative expenses. Retail Adjusted EBITDA increased $33 million during 2019, compared to 2018 primarily due to an increase in revenue, partially offset by higher operating expenses, including an increase in direct sales and marketing expense. B2B Adjusted EBITDA increased $106 million during 2019, compared to 2018 primarily due to an increase in revenue as well as leverage on operating expenses. trivago Adjusted EBITDA increased $69 million during 2019, compared to 2018. Beginning late in the second quarter of 2018, trivago started focusing on improved profitability and made significant reductions in its advertising spend as a result of this increased focus on reducing operating expenditures. The negative marketing spend adversely impacted revenue growth, while benefiting profitability. This trend continued in 2019. Unallocated overhead costs increased $44 million during 2019, compared to 2018 primarily due to higher general and administrative expenses as well as technology expenses. Interest Income and Expense Interest income decreased in 2020 compared to 2019 as a result of lower rates of return. Interest expense increased in 2020 compared to 2019 as a result of additional interest on the $1.25 billion senior unsecured notes issued in September 2019, the $2.75 billion senior unsecured notes issued in May 2020, the $1.25 billion senior unsecured notes issued in July 2020 as well as interest expense on our outstanding revolving credit facility amounts during 2020. Other, Net Other, net is comprised of the following: During 2020, losses on minority equity investments, net included $134 million of impairment losses related to a minority investment as well as $6 million of mark-to-market losses related to our publicly traded marketable equity investment, Despegar. See NOTE 3 — Fair Value Measurements in the notes to the consolidated financial statements for further information. 43 Provision for Income Taxes Our effective tax rate for 2020 was lower than the 21% federal statutory income tax rate due to valuation allowances and nondeductible impairments measured against a pre-tax loss. Our effective tax rate for 2019 was higher than the 21% federal statutory income tax rate due to state income taxes, foreign income taxed at higher than the federal statutory tax rate, as well as losses in foreign jurisdictions for which we do not record a tax benefit. We are subject to taxation in the United States and foreign jurisdictions. Our income tax filings are regularly examined by federal, state and foreign tax authorities. During the fourth quarter of 2019, the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) issued final adjustments related to transfer pricing with our foreign subsidiaries for our 2011 to 2013 tax years. The proposed adjustments would increase our U.S. taxable income by $696 million, which would result in federal tax of approximately $244 million, subject to interest. We do not agree with the position of the IRS. We filed a protest with the IRS for our 2011 to 2013 tax years and Appeals returned our case to Exam for further review. We are also under examination by the IRS for our 2014 to 2016 tax years. Subsequent years remain open to examination by the IRS. We do not anticipate a significant impact to our gross unrecognized tax benefits within the next 12 months related to these years. For additional information, see NOTE 10 — Income Taxes in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Definition and Reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA We report Adjusted EBITDA as a supplemental measure to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). Adjusted EBITDA is among the primary metrics by which management evaluates the performance of the business and on which internal budgets are based. Management believes that investors should have access to the same set of tools that management uses to analyze our results. This non-GAAP measure should be considered in addition to results prepared in accordance with GAAP, but should not be considered a substitute for or superior to GAAP. Adjusted EBITDA has certain limitations in that it does not take into account the impact of certain expenses to our consolidated statements of operations. We endeavor to compensate for the limitation of the non-GAAP measure presented by also providing the most directly comparable GAAP measure and a description of the reconciling items and adjustments to derive the non-GAAP measure. Adjusted EBITDA also excludes certain items related to transactional tax matters, which may ultimately be settled in cash, and we urge investors to review the detailed disclosure regarding these matters included above, in the Legal Proceedings section, as well as the notes to the financial statements. The non-GAAP financial measure used by the Company may be calculated differently from, and therefore may not be comparable to, similarly titled measures used by other companies. Adjusted EBITDA is defined as net income (loss) attributable to Expedia Group, Inc. adjusted for (1) net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests; (2) provision for income taxes; (3) total other expenses, net; (4) stock-based compensation expense, including compensation expense related to certain subsidiary equity plans; (5) acquisition-related impacts, including (i) amortization of intangible assets and goodwill and intangible asset impairment, (ii) gains (losses) recognized on changes in the value of contingent consideration arrangements, if any, and (iii) upfront consideration paid to settle employee compensation plans of the acquiree, if any; (6) certain other items, including restructuring; (7) items included in legal reserves, occupancy tax and other; (8) that portion of gains (losses) on revenue hedging activities that are included in other, net that relate to revenue recognized in the period; and (9) depreciation. The above items are excluded from our Adjusted EBITDA measure because these items are noncash in nature, or because the amount and timing of these items is unpredictable, not driven by core operating results and renders comparisons with prior periods and competitors less meaningful. We believe Adjusted EBITDA is a useful measure for analysts and investors to evaluate our future on-going performance as this measure allows a more meaningful comparison of our performance and projected cash earnings with our historical results from prior periods and to the results of our competitors. Moreover, our management uses this measure internally to evaluate the performance of our business as a whole and our individual business segments. In addition, we believe that by excluding certain items, such as stock-based compensation and acquisition-related impacts, Adjusted EBITDA corresponds more closely to the cash operating income generated from our business and allows investors to gain an understanding of the factors and trends affecting the ongoing cash earnings capabilities of our business, from which capital investments are made and debt is serviced. 44 The reconciliation of net income (loss) attributable to Expedia Group, Inc. to Adjusted EBITDA is as follows: Financial Position, Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal sources of liquidity are typically cash flows generated from operations, cash available under our revolving credit facilities as well as our cash and cash equivalents and short-term investment balances, which were $3.4 billion and $3.8 billion at December 31, 2020 and 2019. As of December 31, 2020, the total cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments held outside the United States was $958 million ($677 million in wholly-owned foreign subsidiaries and $281 million in majority-owned subsidiaries). The amount of undistributed earnings in foreign subsidiaries where the foreign subsidiary has or will invest undistributed earnings indefinitely outside of the Unites States, and for which future distributions could be taxable, was $85 million as of December 31, 2020. The unrecognized deferred tax liability related to the U.S. federal income tax consequences of these earnings was $22 million as of December 31, 2020. Managing our balance sheet prudently and maintaining appropriate liquidity are high priorities during the current COVID-19 pandemic. In order to best position the Company to navigate our current working capital challenges and depressed revenue throughout 2020, we have taken a number of actions to bolster our liquidity and preserve financial flexibility, including: • Suspension of Share Repurchases. We have not repurchased any shares since our earnings call on February 13, 2020, and have suspended future share repurchases. • Suspension of Quarterly Dividends. We do not expect to declare quarterly dividends on our common stock, at least until the current economic and operating environment improves. • Private Equity Investment. On April 23, 2020, we entered into an investment agreement with AP Fort Holdings, L.P., an affiliate of Apollo Global Management, Inc., and an investment agreement with SLP Fort Aggregator II, L.P. and SLP V Fort Holdings II, L.P., affiliates of Silver Lake Group, L.L.C., to raise approximately $1.2 billion in gross proceeds in a private placement of shares of a newly created series of preferred stock and warrants to purchase our common stock. The transaction was completed on May 5, 2020. • Senior Notes Issuances. On May 5, 2020, we privately placed $2 billion of unsecured 6.250% senior notes that are due in May 2025 (the “6.25% Notes”) and $750 million of unsecured 7.000% senior notes due May 2025 (the “7.0% Notes”, and, together with the 6.25% Notes, the “6.25% and 7.0% Notes”). The 7.0% notes have certain redemption provisions starting with the second anniversary of the issuance. The 6.25% and 7.0 % Notes were issued at a price of 100% of the aggregate principal amount. Interest is payable semi-annually in arrears in May and November of each year, beginning November 1, 2020. We have used and will continue to use the net proceeds of this offering for general corporate purposes, which included, but was not limited to, the repayment or redemption of our 5.95% senior notes in August 2020. 45 On July 14, 2020, we privately placed $500 million of unsecured 3.600% senior notes due December 2023 (the “3.6% Notes”) and $750 million of unsecured 4.625% senior notes due August 2027 (the “4.625% Notes” and, together with the 3.6% Notes, the “3.6% and 4.625% Notes”). The 3.6% Notes were issued at a price of 99.922% of the aggregate principal amount. Interest is payable on the 3.6% Notes semi-annually in arrears in June and December of each year, beginning December 15, 2020. The 4.625% Notes were issued at a price of 99.997% of the aggregate principal amount. Interest is payable on the 4.625% Notes semi-annually in arrears in February and August of each year, beginning February 1, 2021. We expect to use the net proceeds to redeem outstanding shares of our 9.5% Series A Preferred Stock after May 5, 2021, when the redemption premium is scheduled to decrease. Depending on business, liquidity and other trends or conditions, however, we may elect to use all or part of the proceeds for other general corporate purposes, which may include repaying, prepaying, redeeming or repurchasing other indebtedness in lieu of or pending such redemption. • Revolving Credit Facility Updates. During March 2020, we increased our cash on hand by borrowing $1.9 billion under our then existing $2 billion revolving credit facility. This existing revolving credit facility was subsequently amended in May 2020 in connection with the issuance of the 6.25% and 7.0% Notes and private placement transaction, to, among other things, provide additional flexibility under pliable covenant provisions with the amended facility initially totaling $2 billion and mature on May 31, 2023 (“Amended Credit Facility”). Pursuant to the terms of Amended Credit Facility, in early August 2020, we entered into a foreign credit facility with a group of lenders (“Foreign Credit Facility”) with aggregate commitments which total $855 million, and maturing on May 31, 2023. Substantially concurrently with the establishment of the Foreign Credit Facility, the Company reduced commitments under the Amended Credit Facility in an amount equal to $855 million and prepaid indebtedness under the Amended Credit Facility in an amount equal to $772 million, which was then outstanding under the Foreign Credit Facility. In August 2020, we repaid the outstanding amount of $772 million on the Foreign Credit Facility as well as $478 million under the Amended Credit Facility. In December 2020, we repaid the remaining amount outstanding under the Amended Credit Facility. As of December 31, 2020, there were no borrowings outstanding under either facility. Our credit ratings are periodically reviewed by rating agencies. As of December 31, 2020, Moody’s rating was Baa3 with an outlook of “negative,” S&P’s rating was BBB- with an outlook of “negative” and Fitch’s rating was BBB- with an outlook of “negative.” April 2020 rating agency downgrades were in connection with the severe disruption to global travel caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. Changes in our operating results, cash flows, financial position, capital structure, financial policy or capital allocations to share repurchase, dividends, investments and acquisitions could impact the ratings assigned by the various rating agencies. Should our credit ratings be adjusted downward, we may incur higher costs to borrow and/or limited access to capital markets and interest rates on the 6.25% and 7.0% Notes issued in May 2020 as well as on the 3.6% and 4.625% issued in July 2020 will increase, which could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2020, we were in compliance with the covenants and conditions in our revolving credit facilities and outstanding debt as detailed in NOTE 7 — Debt in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Under the merchant model, we receive cash from travelers at the time of booking and we record these amounts on our consolidated balance sheets as deferred merchant bookings. We pay our airline suppliers related to these merchant model bookings generally within a few weeks after completing the transaction. For most other merchant bookings, which is primarily our merchant lodging business, we generally pay after the travelers’ use and, in some cases, subsequent billing from the hotel suppliers. Therefore, generally we receive cash from the traveler prior to paying our supplier, and this operating cycle represents a working capital source of cash to us. Typically, the seasonal fluctuations in our merchant hotel bookings have affected the timing of our annual cash flows. Generally, during the first half of the year, hotel bookings have traditionally exceeded stays, resulting in much higher cash flow related to working capital. During the second half of the year, this pattern typically reverses and cash flows are typically negative. With the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, including the high degree of cancellations and customer refunds, particularly during the first half of the year, and the lower new bookings in the merchant business model, these seasonal influences and the working capital source of cash to us has been significantly disrupted resulting in the Company experiencing unfavorable working capital trends and material negative cash flow in the first half of 2020 with the negative cash flow moderating as booking trends improved and cancellations stabilized during the second half of 2020. The full duration and total impact of COVID-19, and how the recovery will unfold, remains difficult to predict. We expect cash flow to remain negative until the decline in new merchant bookings improves further with cancellations either remaining stable or moderating further. In addition, we are experiencing much shorter booking windows in our lodging businesses, which could also impact the seasonality of our working capital and cash flow. Prior to COVID-19, we embarked on an ambitious cost reduction initiative to simplify the organization and increase efficiency. In response to COVID-19, Expedia Group has taken several additional actions to further reduce costs to help mitigate the financial impact from COVID-19 and continue to improve our long-term cost structure. In addition, certain capital expenditures were deferred, including temporarily halting construction on several real estate projects. After temporarily halting 46 construction on our new headquarters during the initial quarantine order, we restarted construction. We expect to spend approximately $900 million in total for the project. Of the total, approximately $850 million was spent between 2016 and 2020. Due to the delays related to COVID-19, we now expect the project to be complete in the first half of 2021. Our cash flows are as follows: In 2020, net cash used in operating activities was $3.8 billion compared to cash provided by operating activities of $2.8 billion for 2019. Impacts from the COVID-19 pandemic have resulted in a significant use of cash to fund working capital changes and operating losses in 2020 compared to a 2019 cash benefit from working capital. The largest driver of the swing in working capital relates to a significant use of cash for deferred merchant bookings as refunds for cancelled bookings exceeded new bookings compared to an increase from deferred merchant bookings in the prior year period. In 2020, $1.3 billion less cash was used in investing activities primarily due to net sales of investments of $476 million in 2020 compared to net purchases of investments of $494 million in 2019 as well as lower current year capital expenditures, including lower spend on our corporate headquarters. Cash provided by financing activities in 2020 primarily included $3.9 billion of net proceeds from the issuance of senior notes issued in May and July 2020, $1.1 billion of net proceeds from our private equity issuance, as well as $319 million of proceeds from the exercise of options and employee stock purchase plans. These sources of cash were partially offset by the August 2020 repayment of $750 million of 5.95% Notes, cash paid to acquire shares of $425 million, including the repurchased shares in the first quarter of 2020 and treasury stock activity related to the vesting of equity instruments, and cash dividend payments of $123 million. Cash provided by financing activities in 2019 primarily included $1.2 billion of net proceeds for the issuance of the 3.25% Notes in September 2019 as well as $301 million of proceeds from the exercise of options and employee stock purchase plans, partially offset by $400 million payment of debt assumed in the Liberty Expedia transaction, cash dividend payments of $195 million and cash paid to acquire shares of $743 million, including the repurchased shares under the authorization discussed below as well as $24 million for repurchases with respect to the Liberty Expedia Holdings transaction. During 2019, 2012, 2010, and 2006, our Board of Directors, or the Executive Committee, acting on behalf of the Board of Directors, authorized a repurchase of up to 20 million outstanding shares of our common stock in each of the respective years, during 2018 authorized a repurchase of up to 15 million shares of our common stock and during 2015 authorized a repurchase of up to 10 million shares of our common stock for a total of 105 million shares. Shares repurchased under the authorized programs were as follows: ______________________________________ (1) Amount excludes transaction costs. As of December 31, 2020, there were approximately 23.3 million shares remaining under the 2018 and 2019 repurchase authorizations. There is no fixed termination date for the repurchases. Our common stock dividend was $0.34 per share for the first quarter of 2020, $1.32 per share for 2019 and $1.24 per share for 2018. See NOTE 11 — Capital Stock in the notes to consolidated financial statements for a detail of the quarterly dividend payments by year. In addition, during 2020, we paid $75 million (or $62.47 per share of Series A Preferred Stock) of dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock. The Company does not expect to make future quarterly dividend payments on our common stock, at least until the current economic and operating environment improves. Future declarations of dividends are subject to final determination by our Board of Directors. 47 Foreign exchange rate changes resulted in increases of our cash balances denominated in foreign currency in 2020 of $61 million reflecting a net appreciation in foreign currencies related to the U.S. dollar during the year. Foreign exchange rate changes resulted in an immaterial increase of our cash balances denominated in foreign currency in 2019 of $3 million. In our opinion, available cash, funds from operations and available borrowings will provide sufficient capital resources to meet our foreseeable liquidity needs. There can be no assurance, however, that the cost of availability of future borrowings, including refinancing, if any, will be available on terms acceptable to us. Summarized Financial Information for Guarantors and the Issuer of Guaranteed Securities Summarized financial information of Expedia Group, Inc. (the “Parent”) and our subsidiaries that are guarantors of our debt facility and instruments (the “Guarantor Subsidiaries”) is shown below on a combined basis as the “Obligor Group.” The debt facility and instruments are guaranteed by certain of our wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries and rank equally in right of payment with all of our existing and future unsecured and unsubordinated obligations. The guarantees are full, unconditional, joint and several with the exception of certain customary automatic subsidiary release provisions. In this summarized financial information of the Obligor Group, all intercompany balances and transactions between the Parent and Guarantor Subsidiaries have been eliminated and all information excludes subsidiaries that are not issuers or guarantors of our debt facility and instruments, including earnings from and investments in these entities. (1) Current assets include intercompany receivables with non-guarantors of $1.2 billion as of December 31, 2020. (2) Operating income (loss) includes intercompany expenses with non-guarantors of $600 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments The following table presents our material contractual obligations and commercial commitments as of December 31, 2020: ____________________ (1) Our 2.5% Notes, 3.6% Notes, 4.5% Notes, 6.25% Notes, 7.0% Notes, 5.0% Notes, 4.625% Notes, 3.8% and 3.25% Notes include interest payments through maturity in 2022, 2023, 2024, 2025, 2025, 2026, 2027, 2028 and 2030 48 respectively, based on the stated fixed rates. For the 2.5% Notes, the December 31, 2020 Euro exchange rate was used to convert the Euro 650 million to U.S. Dollars and calculate the related U.S. Dollar interest payments. (2) Operating lease obligations include leases for office space and data centers. Certain leases contain periodic rent escalation adjustments and renewal options. Lease obligations expire at various dates with the latest maturity in 2038. (3) Our purchase obligations represent the minimum obligations we have under agreements with certain of our vendors and marketing partners. These minimum obligations are less than our projected use for those periods. Payments may be more than the minimum obligations based on actual use. (4) Guarantees and LOCs are commitments that represent funding responsibilities that may require our performance in the event of third-party demands or contingent events. We use our stand-by LOCs primarily for certain regulatory purposes as well as to secure payment for hotel room transactions to particular hotel properties. Of the outstanding balance of our stand-by LOCs, $13 million directly reduces the amount available to us from our revolving credit facilities. The LOC amounts in the above table represent the amount of commitment expiration per period. In addition, we provide a guarantee to the aviation authorities of certain foreign countries to protect against potential non-delivery of our packaged travel services sold within those countries. These countries hold all travel agents and tour companies to the same standard. Our guarantees also include bonds relating to tax assessments that we are contesting and certain surety bonds related to various company performance obligations. (5) Excludes $282 million of net unrecognized tax benefits for which we cannot make a reasonably reliable estimate of the amount and period of payment. Other than the items described above, we do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements as of December 31, 2020. Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions For a discussion of certain relationships and related party transactions, see NOTE 17 – Liberty Expedia Holdings Transaction and NOTE 18 — Related Party Transactions in the notes to the consolidated financial statements.