********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

In addition to the other information in this Form 10-K, the following factors should be considered in evaluating our business. Our operating results depend upon many factors and are subject to various risks and uncertainties. The material risks and uncertainties known to us which may cause our operating results to vary from anticipated results or which may negatively affect our operating results and profitability are as follows: Company-Specific Risks Operational Risks Products that we sell may expose us to potential material liability for property damage, environmental damage, personal injury, or death linked to the use of those products by our customers. Some of our customers operate in challenging industries in which there is a material risk of catastrophic events. We are actively seeking to expand our sales to certain categories of customers, some of whose businesses may entail heightened levels of such risk. If any of these events are linked to the use of any of our products by our customers, claims could be brought against us by those customers, by governmental authorities, and by third parties who are injured or damaged as a result of such events. In addition, our reputation could be adversely affected by negative publicity surrounding such events regardless of whether or not claims against us are successful. While we maintain insurance coverage to mitigate a portion of this risk and may have recourse against our suppliers for losses arising out of defects in products procured from them, we could experience significant losses as a result of claims made against us to the extent adequate insurance is not in place, the products are manufactured by us or legal recourse against our suppliers is otherwise not available, or our insurers or suppliers are unwilling or unable to satisfy their obligations to us. Our ability to successfully attract, develop, and retain qualified personnel to staff our selling locations could impact labor costs, sales at existing selling locations, and the successful execution of our growth drivers. Our success depends in part on our ability to attract, motivate, and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, including inside and outside branch associates, Onsite managers, national account sales representatives, and support personnel, who understand and appreciate our culture and are able to adequately represent this culture to our customers. Qualified individuals of the requisite caliber and number needed to fill these positions may be in short supply in some areas, and the turnover rate in the industry is high, particularly for less tenured employees. If we are unable to hire and retain personnel capable of consistently providing a high level of customer service, as demonstrated by their enthusiasm for our culture and product knowledge, our sales could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, competition for qualified employees could require us to pay higher wages to attract a sufficient number of employees. An inability to recruit and retain a sufficient number of qualified individuals in the future may also delay the planned expansion of our various selling channels. Interruptions in the proper functioning of information systems or the inability to maintain or upgrade our information systems, or convert to alternate systems in a timely and efficient manner, could disrupt operations, cause unanticipated increases in costs and/or decreases in revenues, and result in less efficient operations. The proper functioning of our information systems is critical to many aspects of our business and we could be adversely affected if we experience a disruption or data loss relating to our information systems and are unable to recover in a timely manner. Our information systems are protected with robust backup systems and processes, including physical and software safeguards and remote processing capabilities. Still, information systems are vulnerable to natural disasters, power losses, unauthorized access, telecommunication failures, and other problems. In addition, certain software used by us is licensed from, and certain services related to our information systems are provided by, third parties who could choose to discontinue their products or services or their relationship with us. It is also possible that we are unable to improve, upgrade, maintain, and expand our information systems. Our ability to process orders, maintain proper levels of inventories, collect accounts receivable, pay expenses, and maintain the security of company and customer data, as well as the success of our growth drivers, is dependent in varying degrees on the effective and timely operation and support of our information technology systems. If critical information systems fail or these systems or related software or services are otherwise unavailable, if we experience extended delays or unexpected expenses in securing, developing, and otherwise implementing technology solutions to support our growth and operations, or if certain insurance coverages are limited in their capabilities or affordability, it could adversely affect our profitability and/or ability to grow. The ability to adequately protect our intellectual property or successfully defend against infringement claims by others may have an adverse impact on operations. Our business relies on the use, validity, and continued protection of certain proprietary information and intellectual property, which include current and future patents, trade secrets, trademarks, service marks, copyrights, and confidentiality agreements, as well as license and sublicense agreements to use intellectual property owned by affiliated entities or third parties. Unauthorized use of our intellectual property by others could result in harm to various aspects of the business and may result in costly and protracted litigation in order to protect our rights. In addition, we may be subject to claims that we have infringed on the intellectual property rights of others, which could subject us to liability, require us to obtain licenses to use those rights at significant cost, or otherwise cause us to modify our operations. 16 Cyber security incidents, or violations of data privacy laws and regulations, could cause us to experience certain operational interruptions, incur substantial additional costs, become subject to legal or regulatory proceedings, or suffer damage to our reputation in the marketplace. The nature of our business requires us to receive, retain, and transmit certain personally identifying information that our customers provide to purchase products or services, register on our websites, or otherwise communicate and interact with us. While we have taken and continue to undertake significant steps to protect our customer and confidential information, a compromise of our data security systems or those of businesses with which we interact with could result in information related to our customers or business being obtained by unauthorized persons. We develop and update processes and maintain systems in an effort to try to prevent such unauthorized access, and have established and maintained disclosure controls and procedures that would permit us to make accurate and timely disclosures of any material event, including any cyber security event. The development and maintenance of these processes and systems are costly and require ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies change and efforts to overcome security measures become more sophisticated. Consequently, despite our efforts, the possibility of cyber sec urity incidents cannot be eliminated entirely. There can be no assurance that we will not experience a cyber security incident that may materially impact our business. While we also seek to obtain assurances that third parties we interact with will protect confidential information, there is a risk the confidentiality of data held or accessed by third parties may be compromised. If a compromise of our data security were to occur, it could interrupt our operations, subject us to additional legal, regulatory, and operating costs, and damage our reputation in the marketplace. In addition, regulatory authorities have increased their focus on how companies collect, process, use, store, share, and transmit personal data. New privacy security laws and regulations, including the European Union General Data Protection Regulation 2016, the California Consumer Protection Act, and other similar privacy laws, pose increasingly complex compliance challenges, which may increase compliance costs, and any failure to comply with data privacy laws and regulations could result in significant penalties. Changes in customer or product mix, downward pressure on sales prices, and changes in volume or timing of orders have caused and could continue to cause our gross profit percentage to fluctuate or decline in the future. Changes in our customer and product mix have caused our gross profit percentage to decline and could cause our gross profit percentage to further fluctuate or decline. For example, we have experienced a long-term increase in the proportion of our sales attributable to both non-fastener products and national accounts and Onsite customers. Non-fastener products typically have a lower gross profit percentage than fasteners because in many cases non-fastener products are less technical, have shorter supply chains, and are easier to transport. Similarly, national accounts and Onsite customers typically have a lower gross profit percentage than smaller customers by virtue of their scale, available business, and broader offering of products which typically have lower gross profit percentages. Whether and to what extent this adverse mix impact will result in a decline of our gross profit percentage in any given year will depend on the extent to which they are offset by positive impacts to gross profit percentage during such year. For instance, in 2022, we executed initiatives intended to drive key account penetration, which resulted in relative growth in our national account and Onsite customers and a decline in our gross profit percentage from customer mix. In contrast, the strength of the manufacturing economy in 2022 resulted in relatively faster growth in our more economically cyclical fastener product line over our non-fastener product lines, resulting in an increase in our gross profit percentage from product mix. Setting aside the circumstances of any given year or period, however, customer and product mix have contributed to the decline of our gross profit percentage over time and will likely continue to reduce our gross profit percentage into the foreseeable future. There are other variables that could cause our gross profit percentage to decline, including downward pressure on sales prices due to deflation, pressure from customers to reduce costs, or increased competition. We could experience reductions in the volume of purchases we make from our suppliers, which could reduce supplier volume allowances. We may not be able to pass higher product costs along to customers if those customers have ready product or supplier alternatives in the marketplace. Failure to implement an effective Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) strategy could result in financial losses or a tarnished corporate reputation . Customers, suppliers, employees, community partners, shareholders, and regulatory agencies are increasingly scrutinizing our ESG disclosures and practices and factoring the social impact of our policies and practices into whether and how they engage with us. Our ability to achieve any ESG objective is subject to numerous risks, many of which are outside of our control. Examples of such risks include: • the availability and cost of low- or non-carbon-based energy sources; • the evolving regulatory requirements affecting ESG standards or disclosures; • the availability of suppliers that can meet sustainability, diversity, and other ESG standards that we may set; • the availability of effective and acceptable emission offset technologies or strategies in the event such tools will be necessary to achieve overall emission reduction and mitigation goals; • our ability to recruit, develop, and retain diverse talent in our labor markets; and • the success of our organic growth and acquisitions and dispositions of businesses or operations. 17 Furthermore, increasing reporting and operating regulations around ESG matters may result in higher operating expenses and/or capital expenditures that could reduce our profitability and/or cash flow. An actual or perceived inability to satisfactorily address the concerns and disclosure expectations of our stakeholders could adversely affect our corporate reputation, image, identity, brand equity, and status, which could hurt our ability to retain and acquire customers and employees, lead to penalties for non-compliance, and/or negatively impact the price performance of our common stock. Our operating and administrative expenses could grow more rapidly than net sales which could result in failure to achieve our goals related to leveraging revenue growth into higher net earnings. Over time, we have generally experienced an increase in our operating and administrative expenses, including costs related to payroll, occupancy, freight, and information technology, among others, as our net sales have grown. However, historically, a portion of these expenses has not increased at the same rates as net sales, allowing us to leverage our growth and sustain or expand our operating profit margins. There are various scenarios where we may not be able to continue to achieve this leverage as we have been able to do in the past. For instance, it is typical that when demand declines, most commonly from cyclical or general market factors (though it could be due to customer losses or some other company-specific event), our operating and administrative expenses do not fall as quickly as net sales. It is also possible that in the future we will elect to make investments in operating and administrative expenses that would result in costs growing faster than net sales. In addition, market variables, such as labor rates, energy costs, legal costs, and health care costs, could move in such a way as to cause us to not be able to manage our operating and administrative expenses in a way that would enable us to leverage our revenue growth into higher net earnings. Should any of these scenarios, or a combination of them, occur in the future, it is possible that our operating and pre-tax profit margins could decline even if we are able to grow revenue. We may be unable to meet our goals regarding the growth drivers of our business. Our sales growth is dependent primarily on our ability to attract new customers and increase our activity with existing customers within North America and abroad. In recent years, we have increased the resources devoted to developing a multi-dimensional, differentiated service offering, including our Digital Footprint (which incorporates our FMI and e-procurement capabilities), Onsites, national accounts, international capabilities, and process and consumption analytics. While we have taken steps to build momentum in the growth drivers of our business, we cannot assure you those steps will lead to sales growth. Failure to achieve any of our goals regarding our Digital Footprint, Onsites, national accounts, international capabilities, analytics, or other growth drivers could negatively impact our long-term sales and profit growth. For instance, a lack of customer access during the COVID-19 pandemic in 2020 and 2021 resulted in signings of Onsites and FMI devices, both important indicators of future sales growth, being below target levels for those years, which had adverse implications on sales growth in 2022. In addition, failure to identify appropriate targets for the growth drivers of our business or failure to persuade the appropriate targets to adopt these offerings once identified may adversely impact our internally developed and/or externally communicated deployment objectives. The ability to identify new products and product lines, and integrate them into our selling locations and distribution network, may impact our ability to compete, our ability to generate additional sales, and our profit margins. Our success depends in part on our ability to develop product expertise at the selling location level and identify future products and product lines that complement existing products and product lines and that respond to our customers' needs. We may not be able to compete effectively unless our product selection keeps up with trends in the markets in which we compete or trends in new products. In addition, our ability to integrate new products and product lines into our branches and distribution network could impact sales and profit margins. Our competitive advantage in FMI solutions, which includes industrial vending (FASTVend) and bin stock (FASTStock and FASTBin) tools could be eliminated and, in the case of FASTVend, the loss of key suppliers of equipment and services could be impactful and result in failure to deploy devices. Certain circumstances could lead to a short-term inability to promote and/or install our FMI solutions. We believe we have a competitive advantage in industrial vending and bin stock due to our hardware and software, our local branch presence (allowing us to service devices and bins more rapidly and with less burden on our customers), our depth of products that lend themselves to being dispensed through industrial vending devices or bin stocks, and, in North America, our distribution strength. These advantages have developed over time; however, other competitors could respond to our expanding industrial vending and bin stock position with highly competitive platforms of their own. Such competition could negatively impact our ability to expand our industrial vending and bin stock tools or negatively impact the economics of that business. In addition, we currently rely on a limited number of suppliers for the vending devices used in our FASTVend platform. While devices, software, and services can be obtained from other sources, loss of our current suppliers could be disruptive and could result in our failure to meet short- or long-term goals related to the numbers of FASTVend devices we are able to deploy. Certain circumstances may reduce short-term customer receptivity to adopting our FMI services. For instance, when economic activity slows, some customers may prioritize managing existing operations over adopting new technologies until business circumstances change. For instance, in 2020 and 2021 we experienced a slowdown in the signing of FMI devices as customers limited access to decision-makers and facilities to minimize risks related to the COVID-19 pandemic. 18 Failure to maintain an effective system of internal controls over business processes and/or financial reporting could materially impact our business and results. Company management is responsible for establishing and maintaining effective internal controls designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the achievement of objectives relating to operations, reporting, and compliance. Any system of internal controls, no matter how well designed and operated, can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a system of controls must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all systems of internal controls, internal controls over business processes and financial reporting may not prevent or detect fraud or misstatements. Any failure to maintain an effective system of internal controls over business processes and financial reporting could limit our ability to report our financial results accurately and timely or to detect and prevent fraud, and could expose us to litigation, economic loss, or adversely affect the market price of our common stock. Our inability to attract or transition key executive officers may divert the attention of other members of our senior leadership and adversely impact our existing operations. Our success depends on the efforts and abilities of our key executive officers and senior leadership. In the event of voluntary or involuntary vacancies in our executive team in the future, the extent to which there is disruption in the oversight and/or leadership of our business will depend on our ability to either transition internal, talented individuals or recruit suitable replacements to serve in these roles. In addition, difficulties in smoothly implementing any transition to new members of our executive team, or recruiting suitable replacements, could divert the attention of other members of our senior leadership team from our existing operations. We may not be able to compete effectively against traditional or non-traditional competitors, which could cause us to lose market share or erode our gross and/or operating income profit and/or percentage. The industrial, construction, and maintenance supply industry, although slowly consolidating, still remains a large, fragmented, and highly competitive industry. Our current or future competitors may include companies with similar or greater market presence, name recognition, and financial, marketing, technological, and other resources, and we believe they will continue to challenge us with their product selection, financial resources, technological advancements, and services. Increased competition from brick-and-mortar retailers could cause us to lose market share, reduce our prices, or increase our spending. Similarly, the emergence of online retailers, whether as extensions of our traditional competition or in the form of major, non-traditional competitors, could result in easier and quicker price discovery and the adoption of aggressive pricing strategies and sales methods. These pressures could have the effect of eroding our gross and/or operating income profit and/or percentage over time. We may not be successful in integrating acquisitions and achieving intended benefits and synergies. Historically, the vast majority of our growth has been organic. However, we have completed several acquisitions over the last decade and expect to continue to pursue strategic acquisitions that we believe will either expand or complement our business in new or existing markets or further enhance the value and offerings we are able to provide to our existing or future potential customers. Acquisitions involve numerous risks and challenges, including, among others, a risk of potential loss of key employees of an acquired business, inability to achieve identified operating and financial synergies anticipated to result from an acquisition, diversion of our capital and our management's attention from other business issues, and risks related to the integration of the acquired business including unanticipated changes in our business, our industry, or general economic conditions that affect the assumptions underlying the acquisition. Any one or more of these factors could cause us to not realize the benefits anticipated to result from the acquisitions. Equity Risks Our stock price will fluctuate, and at times these fluctuations may be volatile . The prices of markets and individual equities tend to fluctuate. These fluctuations commonly reflect events, many of which may be fully or partially outside of our control, that may change investor's perception of our future earnings growth prospects, including changes in economic conditions, ability to execute business strategy, the impacts of public policy, investor sentiment, competitive dynamics, and many other factors. While the sources of stock price fluctuation can be common across companies, the magnitude of these fluctuations can vary for different companies. This is commonly measured by beta, which is an individual stock’s volatility in relation to the overall market. Our stock price has traditionally had a high beta value, which means fluctuations in the price of our shares will often be sharper than what is experienced by broader market indices. We can provide no assurance that the above-average historical volatility of our stock versus the broader market will moderate. Volatility in our stock price could also result in the filing of securities class action litigation, which could result in substantial costs and the diversion of our management's time, attention, and resources. There can be no assurance that our stock price will continue to reflect the current multiple of earnings over time. Stock prices, including ours, are commonly thought to be a function of earnings compounded by a multiple. This is often referred to as a price-to-earnings (P/E) ratio. Historically, investors have given our earnings a higher multiple, or premium, than is typical of the broader industrial sector of which we are typically associated. We believe we have earned this premium by virtue of a long history of superior growth, profitability, and returns. However, to the extent that we fail to successfully execute our growth strategies and/or poorly navigate the risks that surround our business, including those described throughout this section, or to 19 the extent our industry (industrial distribution, or industrial stocks in general) loses favor in the marketplace, there can be no assurance that investors will continue to afford a premium multiple to our earnings which could adversely affect our stock price. We cannot provide any guaranty of future dividend payments or that we will continue to purchase shares of our common stock pursuant to our share purchase program. Although our board of directors has historically authorized the payment of quarterly cash dividends on our common stock and indicated an intention to do so in the future, there are no assurances that we will continue to pay dividends in the future or continue to increase dividends at historic rates. In addition, although our board of directors has authorized share purchase programs and we purchased shares in 2022, 2020, and prior years through these programs, we may discontinue doing so at any time. Any decision to continue to pay quarterly dividends on our common stock, to increase those dividends, or to purchase our common stock in the future will be based upon our financial condition and results of operations, the price of our common stock, credit conditions, and such other factors as are deemed relevant by our board of directors. General Economic and Operating Risks Operational Risks A downturn in the economy or in the principal markets served by us and other factors may affect customer spending, which could harm our operating results. In general, our sales are the result of planned and unplanned customer spending on products used in production of final goods, infrastructure construction, and/or the maintenance of facilities. This spending is affected by many factors, including, among others: • general business conditions, • business conditions in our principal markets, • changes in the value of local currencies relative to our functional currency, the United States dollar, • interest rates, • inflation, • liquidity in credit markets, • taxation, • government regulations and actions, • energy and fuel prices and electrical power rates, • unemployment trends, • terrorist attacks and acts of war, • impact of higher sustained global temperatures (global warming), • acts of God, which may include, but are not limited to, weather events, earthquakes, pandemics, etc., and • other matters that influence customer confidence and spending. A downturn in either the national or local economies where we operate, or in the principal markets served by us, or changes in any of the other factors described above, could negatively impact sales at our in-market locations, sales through our other selling channels, and the level of profitability of those in-market locations and other selling channels. In 2022, we experienced a weakening in the value of many local currencies relative to the United States dollar. As a result, in certain international markets our relatively healthy local currency sales were weak or weakened in certain international markets when reported in our functional currency. This was particularly pronounced in Europe. In 2022, a loosening of China’s "zero tolerance" COVID-19 domestic policy, and the resulting surge in infections, caused a weakening in local currency results in our Chinese and Southeast Asian markets. In 2022, the Russo-Ukrainian war adversely affected European energy markets and business activity, resulting in a weakening of sales growth in local currency for our Continental European business unit. Products manufactured in foreign countries may cease to be available, which could adversely affect our inventory levels and opera ting results. We obtain certain of our products, and our suppliers obtain certain of their products, from China, Taiwan, South Korea, and other foreign countries. Our suppliers could discontinue or experience disruption in selling products manufactured in foreign countries at any time for reasons that may or may not be in our control or our suppliers’ control, including foreign government regulations, domestic government regulations, disruption in trade relationships and agreements, political unrest, war, disease, labor availability, or change in local economic conditions. Additionally, the shipment of goods from foreign countries could be delayed by container shipping companies encountering financial, capacity, or other difficulties. Our operating results and inventory levels could suffer if we are unable to promptly replace a supplier or shipper who is unwilling or unable to satisfy our requirements with another supplier or shipper providing products and services of comparable quality and utility. We experienced this in 2021 and 2022, as a strong recovery in global product demand following the COVID-19 pandemic created disruptions due to a shortage of shipping capacity and the effect of labor capacity restraints on the ability to produce sufficient goods in a timely manner. We and our customers experienced a shortage of certain products and elevated transportation costs as a result. 20 Trade policies could make sourcing product from overseas more difficult and/or more costly, and could adversely impact our gross and/or operating profit percentage. We source a significant amount of the products we sell from outside of North America, primarily Asia. We have made significant structural investments over time to be able to source both directly from Asia through our wholly-owned, Asia-based subsidiary, FASTCO Trading Co., Ltd. and indirectly from suppliers that procure product from international sources. This was initially necessary due to the absence of significant domestic fastener production, but over time we have expanded our non-fastener sourcing as well, and at this time it may be difficult to adjust our sourcing in the short term. In light of this, changes in trade policies could affect our sourcing operations, our ability to secure sufficient product to serve our customers and/or impact the cost or price of our products, with potentially adverse impacts on our gross and operating profit percentages and financial results. China represents a significant source of product for North America. In addition, we move and source products within North America. Any trading disruption (tariffs, product restrictions, etc.) between Canada, the United States, and Mexico, or disruption in their respective trading relationships with other nations can adversely impact our business. There can be no assurances that these disruptions will not continue or increase in the future, with the previously mentioned countries or additional countries with which we do business. The degree to which these changes in the global marketplace affect our financial results will be influenced by the specific details of the changes in trade policies, their timing and duration, and our effectiveness in deploying tools to address these issues. Changes in energy costs and the cost of raw materials used in our products could impact our net sales, cost of sales, gross profit percentage, distribution expenses, and occupancy expenses, which may result in lower operating income. Our suppliers can experience significant fluctuation over time in the cost of raw materials (e.g., steel, plastic, etc.) used to produce their products. They can also experience significant fluctuation in the cost of energy consumed in their production processes and in the cost of fuel consumed to transport their products. These suppliers typically look to pass their increased costs along to us through price increases. We also consume energy and fuel in our own operations, and can experience direct and significant fluctuation in our own costs. Increases in the cost of fuel or raw materials could be damaging to us, decreases in those costs, particularly if severe, could also adversely impact us by creating deflation in selling prices, which could cause our gross profit to decline, or by negatively impacting customers in certain industries, which could cause our sales to those customers to decline. Failure to fully pass any such increased prices and costs through to our customers or to modify our activities to mitigate the impact would have an adverse effect on our operating income. We experienced resource inflation in 2021 and 2022, as a strong recovery in global demand following the COVID-19 pandemic created tightness in the market for certain raw materials and energy. This caused our company and our suppliers to increase product prices to address higher input costs. We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk, and changes in foreign exchange rates could increase the cost of purchasing products and impact our foreign sales. Given that we were founded and remain based in the United States and that we are publicly-traded in the United States, we report our results based on the United States dollar. Because the functional currency related to most of our non-United States operations is the applicable local currency, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk arising from transactions in the normal course of business. Fluctuations in the relative strength of foreign economies and their related currencies could adversely impact our ability to procure products at competitive prices and our foreign sales. Historically, our primary exchange rate exposure has been with the Canadian dollar. There can be no assurance that currency exchange rate fluctuations with the Canadian dollar and other foreign currencies will not adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. While the use of currency hedging instruments may provide us with protection from adverse fluctuations in currency exchange rates, we are not currently using these instruments and we have not historically hedged this exposure. If we decide to do so in the future, we could potentially forego the benefits that might result from favorable fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Our current estimates of total market potential as well as the market potential of our business strategies could be incorrect. We believe we have a significant opportunity for growth based on our belief that North American market demand for the products we sell is estimated to exceed $140 billion. This figure is not derived from an independent organization or data source that aggregates and publishes widely agreed-upon demand and market share statistics. Instead, we have identified this figure based on our own experience in the marketplace for our products and by evaluating estimates from other sources. If we have overestimated the size of our market, and in doing so, underestimated our current share of it, the size of our opportunity for growth may not be as significant as we currently believe. Similarly, we have provided estimates of the opportunities we have with some of our specific growth strategies, such as FMI solutions and Onsite locations. Within North America, we believe the potential market opportunity for industrial vending is approximately 1.7 million devices and we have identified over 12,000 customer locations with the potential to implement our Onsite service model within our traditional manufacturing and construction customer base. We have identified additional markets, such as government, healthcare, and academia, and geographies into which we can sell our FMI solutions, which would increase the number of identified potential FMI solutions or customer locations. However, our presence in emerging markets and geographies is not as established as is the case in our traditional markets and geographies, which could extend the sales cycle. Similar to the case for total market size, we use our own experience and data to arrive at the size of these potential opportunities and not independent sources. These estimates are based on our business model today, and the introduction or expansion of other business strategies, such as on-line retailing, could cause them to change. In addition, the market potential of a particular business strategy may vary from expectations due 21 to a change in the marketplace (such as changes in customer concentration or needs), a change in the nature of that business strategy, or weaker than anticipated acceptance by customers of that business strategy. We cannot guarantee that our market potential estimates are accurate or that we will ultimately decide to expand our industrial vending or Onsite service models as we anticipate to reach the full market opportunity. The industrial, construction, and maintenance supply industry is consolidating, which could cause it to become more competitive and could negatively impact our market share, gross profit, and operating income. The industrial, construction, and maintenance supply industry in North America is consolidating. This consolidation is being driven by customer needs and supplier capabilities, which could cause the industry to become more competitive as greater economies of scale are achieved by suppliers, or as competitors with new business models are willing and able to operate with lower gross profit on select products. Customers are increasingly aware of the total costs of fulfillment and of the need to have consistent sources of supply at multiple locations. We believe these customer needs could result in fewer suppliers as the remaining suppliers become larger and capable of being a consistent source of supply. There can be no assurance we will be able in the future to take effective advantage of the trend toward consolidation. The trend in our industry toward consolidation could make it more difficult for us to maintain our current gross profit and operating income. Furthermore, as our industrial customers face increased foreign competition, and potentially lose business to foreign competitors or shift their operations overseas in an effort to reduce expenses, we may face increased difficulty in growing and maintaining our market share. The occurrence of a widespread public health crisis, including COVID-19, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. A public health crisis, if sufficiently widespread as to affect economic activity, could negatively impact our business. To the extent that efforts to mitigate the effects of the crisis result in a reduction in demand, inefficiencies due to workplace accommodations, reduced availability of personnel, supply chain disruption, or constraints on product availability, among other difficulties, our financial condition could be negatively impacted. In any such event, the severity, duration, and extent of the crisis can be difficult to predict, which can make it difficult to predict or anticipate the magnitude and length of the impact on our sales, profits, and/or cash flow. We experienced these effects with the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic in early 2020, when government authorities and our customers imposed facility closures, work-from-home orders, social distancing protocols, and/or other restrictions in an effort to mitigate the effects on global societies. These actions had both positive effects (strong sales of safety and sanitation supplies to government, healthcare, and warehousing customers) and negative effects (weak sales to industrial and construction customers as well as disruption in signings of Onsites and FMI devices). COVID-19 did not have any meaningful direct impact on our financial results in 2022. However, COVID-19 infections continue in most societies in which we operate, and we cannot predict the severity and duration of additional outbreaks, new variants of the virus, or the future availability of effective medical treatments and vaccines. We also cannot predict the severity or duration of the net financial impact of COVID-19 or any other public health event on our operating results. Inclement weather and other disruptions to the transportation network could adversely impact our distribution system and demand for our products. Our ability to provide efficient distribution of core business products to our branch network is an integral component of our overall business strategy. Disruptions at distribution centers or shipping ports may affect our ability to both maintain core products in inventory and deliver products to our customers on a timely basis, which may in turn adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, severe weather conditions could adversely affect demand for our products in particularly hard hit regions. Legal, Regulatory, and Compliance Risks Our business is subject to a wide array of operating laws and regulations in every jurisdiction where we operate. Compliance with these laws and regulations increases the cost of doing business and failure to comply could result in the imposition of fines or penalties, damage to our reputation, or the termination of contracts. We are subject to a variety of laws and regulations including without limitation import and export requirements, anti-bribery and corruption laws, product compliance laws, environmental laws, foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions, advertising regulations, data privacy (including in the U.S., the California Consumer Privacy Act, and in the European Union, the General Data Protection Regulation 2016, with interpretations varying from state to state and country to country) and cyber security requirements (including protection of information and incident responses), regulations on suppliers regarding the sources of supplies or products, labor and employment laws, and anti-competition regulations. In addition, as a supplier to federal, state, and local government agencies, we must comply with certain laws and regulations relating specifically to the formation, administration, and performance of our governmental contracts. We are also subject to governmental audits and inquiries in the normal course of business. Ongoing audit activity and changes to the legal and regulatory environments could increase the cost of doing business, and such costs may increase in the future as a result of changes in these laws and regulations or in their interpretation. While we have implemented policies and procedures designed to facilitate compliance with these laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate such laws and regulations, or our policies. Any 22 such violations could result in the imposition of fines and penalties, damage to our reputation, and, in the case of laws and regulations relating specifically to governmental contracts, the loss of those contracts. Tax laws and regulations require compliance efforts that can increase our cost of doing business and changes to these laws and regulations could impact financial results. We are subject to a variety of tax laws and regulation in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Maintaining compliance with these laws can increase our cost of doing business and failure to comply could result in audits or the imposition of fines or penalties. Further, our future effective tax rates in any of these jurisdictions could be affected, positively or negatively, by changing tax priorities, changes in statutory rates, and/or changes in tax laws or the interpretation thereof. In 2022, the Inflation Reduction Act was passed which contained tax-related provisions. We do not anticipate any meaningful near-term impact to our tax rates from the legislation. Changes in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates, and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters could significantly affect our financial results or financial condition. U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our business, such as asset impairment, inventories, lease obligations, self-insurance, vendor allowances, tax matters, business combinations, and legal matters, are complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates, and judgments. Changes in accounting standards or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates or judgments, could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance or financial condition. The implementation of new accounting standards could also require certain systems, internal process, internal control, and other changes that could increase our operating costs. Credit and Liquidity Risks Tight credit markets could impact our ability to obtain financing on reasonable terms or increase the cost of existing or future financing and interest rate fluctuations could adversely impact our results. As of December 31, 2022, we had $555.0 of outstanding debt obligations, of which $330.0 is in the form of senior unsecured promissory notes issued under our master note agreement (the Master Note Agreement), while $225.0 is in the form of loans outstanding under our revolving credit facility (the Credit Facility). Loans under the Credit Facility generally bear interest at a rate per annum equal to Daily Simple Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR) and mature on September 28, 2027. The notes issued under our Master Note Agreement consist of six series an d are described in further detail in Note 9 of the Not es to Consolidated Financial Statements in this Form 10-K. We currently have the capacity under our Credit Facility and Master Note Agreement to increase borrowings in the future to finance stock purchases, dividends, capital expenditures, working capital additions, acquisitions, or other investments. Should we seek to increase our borrowings during periods of volatility and disruption in the United States credit markets, financing may become more costly and more difficult to obtain. This was not a material consideration in 2022. However, during any future periods of credit market volatility, the cost of servicing any existing balances on our Credit Facility at that time could increase due to the SOFR-based interest rate provided for under our Credit Facility.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following is management's discussion and analysis of certain significant factors which have affected our financial position and operating results during the periods included in the accompanying consolidated financial statements and should be read in conjunction with those consolidated financial statements. This section of this Form 10-K generally discusses 2022 and 2021 items and year-to-year comparisons for the current year and the prior year. Discussions of 2020 items can be found in 'Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations' in Part II, Item 7 of our annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021. Business and Operational Overview Fastenal is a North American leader in the wholesale distribution of industrial and construction supplies. We distribute these supplies through a network of approximately 3,300 in-market locations. Most of our customers are in the manufacturing and non-residential construction markets. The manufacturing market includes sales of products for both original equipment manufacturing (OEM), where our products are consumed in the final products of our customers, and manufacturing, repair and operations (MRO), where our products are consumed to support the facilities and ongoing operations of our customers. The non-residential construction market includes general, electrical, plumbing, sheet metal, and road contractors. Other users of our products include farmers, truckers, railroads, oil exploration companies, oil production and refinement companies, mining companies, federal, state, and local governmental entities, schools, and certain retail trades. Geographically, our branches, Onsite locations, and customers are primarily located in North America, though we continue to grow our non-North American presence as well. It is helpful to appreciate several aspects of our marketplace: First, it is big. We estimate the North American marketplace for industrial supplies is in excess of $140 billion per year (and we have expanded beyond North America) and no company has a significant portion of this market. Second, many of the products we sell are individually inexpensive, but the cost and time to manage, procure, and transport these products can be quite meaningful. Third, many customers prefer to reduce their number of MRO and OEM suppliers to simplify their business, while also utilizing various technologies and models (including our local branches when they need something quickly or unexpectedly) to improve availability and reduce waste. Lastly, we believe the markets are efficient. In our view, this means that companies that grow market share are those that develop differentiated capabilities that provide the greatest value to the customer. Our approach to addressing these aspects of our marketplace is captured in our tagline Where Industry Meets Innovation ™ . The concept of growth is simple: find more customers every day and increase our activity with them. However, execution is hard work. First, we recruit service-minded individuals to support customers and empower them to operate in a decentralized fashion to maximize their flexibility to solve customer problems. We support these customer-facing resources with a supply chain capability that is speedy, efficient, and cost-effective. This has formed the foundation of our high-touch model since inception. Second, we invest in, develop, and deploy capabilities that allow us to illuminate and provide greater control over a customer's supply chain. These capabilities range from service models that take advantage of our local presence and/or our ability to more efficiently manage complex procurement needs, to hardware and software technologies that promote actionable data capture, improve operating efficiencies and reduce supply chain risk. Third, we strive to generate strong profits, which produce the cash flow necessary to support our growth, our product and technology development, and the needs of our customers. The ultimate aim of this 'high-tech, high-touch' approach to gaining market share is to allow us to get closer to our customers, going so far as to be right to the point of consumption within customers' facilities. Marrying our presence, capabilities and technologies deepens our relationships and our understanding of our customers' day-to-day opportunities and obstacles. This, in turn, enhances our ability to provide innovative and comprehensive solutions to our customers' challenges. By doing these things every day, Fastenal remains a growth-centric organization. 28 Executive Overview The following table presents a performance summary of our results of operations for the periods ended December 31: We would characterize 2022 as reflecting the normalization of the business cycle relative to the pandemic-impacted years of 2020 and 2021. While we did experience some slowing in business activity over the course of the year, customer demand was generally healthy throughout, resulting in good unit growth. Incremental pricing from actions taken at the end of 2021 and the start of 2022 further contributed to our growth, though over the course of the year we saw the inflationary pressures and supply chain constraints that catalyzed our pricing actions largely dissipate. This normalization in business activity also resulted in improved signings of Onsites and FMI devices, which approached pre-pandemic levels. These factors more than offset challenges in our smaller non-North American markets, where the effects of the Russo-Ukrainian War and China's evolving COVID-19 policies weighed on growth. This growth, combined with improvements to our efficiency stemming from growth in our Digital Footprint and changes to our go-to-market strategies, allowed us to expand our operating margins in the period. The table below summarizes our absolute and full-time equivalent (FTE; based on 40 hours per week) employee headcount, our investments in in-market locations (defined as the sum of the total number of branch locations and the total number of active Onsite locations), and weighted FMI devices at the end of the periods presented and the percentage change compared to the end of the prior period. During the last twelve months, we increased our total FTE employee headcount by 1,520. This reflects an increase in our in-market and non-in-market selling FTE employee headcount of 1,063 to support growth in the marketplace and sales initiatives targeting customer acquisition. We had an increase in our distribution center FTE employee headcount of 231 to support increasing product throughput at our facilities and to expand our local inventory fulfillment terminals (LIFTs). We had an 29 increase in our remaining FTE employee headcount of 226 that relates primarily to personnel investments in information technology, manufacturing, and operational support, such as purchasing and product development. We opened one branch in the fourth quarter of 2022 and closed 34, net of conversions. We activated 76 Onsite locations in the fourth quarter of 2022 and closed 20, net of conversions. In 2022, we opened 12 branches and closed 122, net of conversions. In 2022, we activated 306 Onsite locations and closed 99, net of conversions. In any period, the number of closings tends to reflect normal churn in our business, whether due to redefinin g or exiting customer relationships, the shutting or relocation of customer facilities that host our locations, or a customer decision, as well as our ongoing review of underperforming locations. Our in-market n etwork forms the foundation of our business strategy, and we will continue to open or close locations as is deemed necessary to sustain and improve our network, support our growth drivers, and manage our operating expenses. CURRENT YEAR RESULTS ENDED 2022 Results of Operations The following sets forth consolidated statements of earnings information (as a percentage of net sales) for the periods ended December 31: Net Sales Note – Daily sales are defined as the total net sales for the period divided by the number of business days (in the United States) in the period. The table below sets forth net sales and daily sales for the periods ended December 31, and changes in such sales from the prior period to the more recent period: The increase in net sales noted above for 2022 was due to higher unit sales of MRO and OEM supplies to traditional manufacturing and construction customers and higher pricing as further set forth below. Higher unit sales in 2022 were a result of healthy economic activity throughout the period, though we did observe some moderation in demand as the year progressed. This moderation in demand, combined with more difficult year-over-year comparisons as the year progressed, produced daily sales growth of 18.1% in the first half of 2022, daily sales growth of 13.3% in the second half of 2022, and daily sales growth of 8.0% in December 2022. Growth was led by our manufacturing customers, with particular strength in markets involved with commodity and capital goods production. Our non-residential construction customers grew on an annual basis, but turned slightly negative in the fourth quarter. We believe the relative underperformance of this customer category reflects deliberate shifts in our branch strategy that de-emphasized walk-in and over-the-counter transactions. We also experienced a normalization in other aspects of the operating environment in 2022, specifically the dissipation or moderation over the course of the year of product and transportation inflation, supply chain disruption, and labor market constraints. This affected two aspects of our growth during the period. First, price contributed 540 to 570 basis points to our net sales growth in 2022. However, as inflationary pressures eased and product availability improved, the need for aggressive pricing actions declined. The absence of such actions combined with more difficult year-over-year comparisons as the year progressed resulted in the contribution from price to net sales growth moderating, from averaging 620 to 650 basis points in the first half of 2022, to averaging 450 to 480 basis points in the second half of 2022 and to averaging 350 to 380 basis points in the fourth quarter of 2022. 30 Second, as inflationary pressures and supply chain constraints became more predictable and manageable and then largely dissipated, it allowed our customers to shift from short-term business management to long-term strategic planning. This, in turn, provided us more opportunities to engage with customers over our key growth drivers, including Onsite and FMI. As a result, while we did not reach the signings goals we had set out at the start of the year, we saw a meaningful increase in signings in 2022 over the prior year, and a return to near pre-pandemic levels. We signed 356 Onsites in 2022, below our goal of 375 to 400 units but above the prior year (274 signings). Similarly, we signed 20,735 FMI MEUs, below our goal of 23,000 to 25,000 MEUs but above the prior year (19,311 MEUs). Sales by Product Line The approximate mix of sales from fasteners, safety supplies, and all other product lines was as follows: The shifts in product mix in 2022 compared to 2021 largely reflect the reversal of pandemic-related activity combined with the relative growth of our more cyclical fastener line as growth in manufacturing and construction end markets accelerated as the post-pandemic North American economy recovered. Annual Sales Changes, Sequential Trends, and End Market Performance This section focuses on three distinct views of our business – annual sales changes by month, sequential trends, and end market performance. The first discussion regarding sales changes by month provides a good mechanical view of our business. The second discussion provides a framework for understanding the sequential trends (that is, comparing a month to the immediately preceding month, and also looking at the cumulative change from an earlier benchmark month) in our business. Finally, we believe the third discussion regarding end market performance provides insight into activities with our various types of customers. Annual Sales Changes, by Month During the months noted below, all of our selling locations, when combined, had a DSR change of (compared to the same month in the preceding year): Sequential Trends We find it helpful to think about the monthly sequential changes in our business using the analogy of climbing a stairway – This stairway has several predictable landings where there is a pause in the sequential gain (i.e. April, July, and October to December), but generally speaking, climbs from January to October. The October landing then establishes the benchmark for the start of the next year. History has identified these landings in our business cycle. They generally relate to months where certain holidays impair business days and/or seasons impact certain end markets, particularly non-residential construction. The first landing centers on Easter and the Good Friday holiday that precedes it, which in any given year can fall in March or April, the second landing centers on July 4th, and the third landing centers on the approach of winter with its seasonal impact on primarily our non-residential construction business and with the Christmas/New Year holidays. The holidays we noted impact the trends because they either move from month-to-month or because they move around during the week. The table below shows the pattern to the sequential change in our daily sales. The line labeled 'Benchmark' is a historical average of our sequential daily sales change for the trailing five year average that excludes 2020. We have excluded 2020 from the average as the effects of the pandemic created unusual sequential patterns that we do not consider representative of normal trends. We believe this time frame serves to show the historical pattern and could serve as a benchmark. The '2022' and '2021' lines represent our actual sequential daily sales changes. The '22Delta' and '21Delta' lines indicate the difference between the 'Benchmark' and the actual results in the respective year. Under normal circumstances, the sequential trends shown below are directly linked to fluctuations in our end markets. Further, in any given month it is possible to get significant deviation from the benchmark. 31 It is important to note that these benchmarks are historical averages. In a year where demand is strong, our daily sales growth rates will tend to have more months that exceed the benchmark than fall below it. In a year where demand is weak, we will tend to have more months that fall short of the benchmark than exceed it. In both cases, there is a random element that makes it difficult to know how any single month will perform. Note – Amounts may not foot due to rounding difference. A graph of the sequential daily sales change patterns discussed above, starting with a base of '100' in the previous October and ending with the next October, would be as follows: 32 End Market Performance We estimate approximately 70% of our business is with customers engaged in some type of manufacturing, a significant subset of which finds its way into the heavy equipment market. The DSR change to these manufacturing customers, when compared to the same period in the prior year, was as follows: Our manufacturing business consists of two subsets: the industrial production business (this is business where we supply products that become part of the finished goods produced by our customers and is sometimes referred to as OEM - original equipment manufacturing) and the maintenance portion (this is business where we supply products that maintain the facility or the equipment of our customers engaged in manufacturing and is sometimes referred to as MRO - maintenance, repair, and operations). The industrial business is more fastener-centered, while the maintenance portion is represented by all product categories. The best way to understand the change in our industrial production business is to examine the results in our fastener product line (which, under normal business conditions, represents 30% to 35% of our business) which is heavily influenced by changes in our business with heavy equipment manufacturers. From a company perspective, the DSR change of fasteners, when compared to the same period in the prior year, was as follows (note: this information includes all end markets): By contrast, the best way to understand the change in the maintenance portion of the manufacturing business is to examine the results in our non-fastener product lines. From a company perspective, the DSR change of non-fasteners, when compared to the same period in the prior year, was as follows (note: this information includes all end markets): Two product lines, safety and janitorial, accounted for approximately 44% of total non-fastener sales in 2022. The pattern in 2021, and particularly the second quarter of 2021, was affected by difficult comparisons versus the prior year, when the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic resulted in a surge of safety and janitorial supplies that was not repeated to the same degree in 2022. Setting aside the unique circumstances surrounding the pandemic, our non-fastener business is not immune to the impact of industrial cycles. However, we would typically expect it to outperform our fastener business over the course of a cycle. This reflects three things: the non-fastener market is larger than the fastener market, we are under penetrated in the non-fastener market relative to the fastener market, and industrial vending lends itself to sales of non-fastener products. We estimate approximately 15% to 20% of our business is with customers engaged in non-residential construction and reseller markets. The DSR change to these customers, when compared to the same period in the prior year, was as follows: Our non-residential construction and reseller business is heavily influenced by manufacturing, oil and gas, and infrastructure spending. In 2022, these markets were healthy, which contributed to growth with these customers. 33 Gross Profit The gross profit percentage during each period was as follows: Our gross profit, as a percentage of net sales, was 46.1% in 2022 and 46.2% in 2021, a decrease of 10 basis points. This decrease was primarily related to three factors. First, in 2022 we experienced relatively higher growth from our large and Onsite customers, which tend to have a lower gross margin percentage than the business as a whole. This was only partly offset by favorable product mix resulting from relatively higher growth from our fasteners products during the year, which tend to have a higher gross margin percentage than the business as a whole. Second, in the second half of 2022, we did not pass through pricing sufficient to offset higher costs, which resulted in an adverse impact on our gross margin percentage. Third, in the second half of 2022, we experienced lower product margins for certain categories of our other products. We believe slower demand and greater product availability in the marketplace due to supply chain normalization has put some pressure on products that tend to be sold less frequently by our business units. These factors were mostly offset by a reduction in the amount of pandemic-related write-downs and narrower losses to operate our truck fleet related to our strong freight revenue growth leveraging relatively stable fleet costs. Operating and Administrative Expenses Our operating and administrative expenses, as a percentage of net sales, decreased by approximately 80 basis points to 25.2% in 2022 from 26.0% in 2021. Employee-related expenses, as a percentage of net sales, decreased by approximately 20 basis points. Occupancy-related expenses, as a percentage of net sales, decreased by approximately 60 basis points. All other operating and administrative expenses, as a percentage of net sales, was unchanged in 2022 from 2021. The percentage change in employee-related, occupancy-related, and all other operating and administrative expenses (including the loss (gain) on sales of property and equipment) compared to the same periods in the preceding year, is outlined in the table below. Employee-related expenses include: (1) payroll (which includes cash compensation, stock option expense, and profit sharing), (2) health care, (3) personnel development, and (4) social taxes. Our employee-related expenses increased in 2022 from 2021. This was related to: higher base pay and employment taxes from higher FTE during the period and moderate wage inflation; an increase in bonuses and commissions resulting from improved sales and profitability; and an increase in our profit sharing contribution. This was partly offset by a decline in health insurance costs, as the use of medical services by employees normalized following the post-pandemic catch-up activity in 2021. 34 The table below summarizes the percentage change in our FTE headcount at the end of the periods presented compared to the end of the prior period: Occupancy-related expenses include: (1) building rent and depreciation, (2) building utility costs, (3) equipment related to our branches and distribution locations, and (4) industrial vending equipment (we consider the vending equipment, excluding leased locker equipment, to be a logical extension of our in-market operations and classify the depreciation and repair costs as occupancy expenses). Our occupancy-related expenses increased in 2022 from 2021. This was related to: higher costs and depreciation for the maintenance, upgrade and installation of equipment in hub and non-hub facilities; slightly higher depreciation related to a higher installed base of our FMI suite of technologies; and slightly higher facility costs, with higher utility costs being only partly offset by lower rents stemming from branch consolidations. All other operating and administrative expenses include: (1) selling-related transportation, (2) information technology (IT) expenses, (3) general corporate expenses, which consists of legal expenses, general insurance expenses, travel and marketing expenses, etc., and (4) the loss (gain) on sales of property and equipment. Combined, all other operating and administrative expenses increased in 2022 from 2021. This was related to: higher costs related to selling-related transportation, including higher fuel costs; higher spending on information technology; higher spending on travel, meals, and supplies; and higher general insurance expense. These elements were only partly offset by lower bad debt expense. Net Interest Expense Our net interest expense was $13.6 in 2022 compared to $9.6 in 2021. We carried higher average debt balances in 2022 relative to the prior year, and specifically higher balances of variable rate credit facility debt, as a result of high sustained working capital needs and an increase in share buybacks. We also incurred higher average interest rates during the year due to changes in interest levels in the marketplace. Income Taxes We recorded income tax expense of $353.1 in 2022, or 24.5% of earnings before income taxes, compared to $282.8 in 2021, or 23.4% of earnings before income taxes. The increase in our tax rate in 2022 is due primarily to reduced benefits associated with the exercise of stock options, an increase in state income tax expense, and an absence of certain favorable reserve adjustments that benefited 2021. 35 Net Earnings Net earnings, net earnings per share (EPS), the percentage change in net earnings, and the percentage change in EPS, were as follows: During 2022, net earnings increased, primarily due to higher sales and our ability in the period to grow costs more slowly than we grew sales. This was only slightly offset by a higher income tax rate. Liquidity and Capital Resources Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities in dollars and as a percentage of net earnings were as follows: In 2022, we experienced a slight increase in our operating cash flow as a percentage of net earnings, though this reflects a significant increase in our conversion percentage in the second half of 2022 which more than offset a significant decline in our conversion percentage in the first half of 2022. Taken as a whole, while our working capital needs remained elevated through 2022, they declined slightly on a year-over-year basis whereas our earnings increased on a year-over-year basis. Trade Working Capital Assets The following table sets forth the dollar and percentage change in accounts receivable, net, inventories, and accounts payable for the period ended December 31: Note – Amounts may not foot due to rounding difference. In 2022, the annual growth in net accounts receivable reflected several factors. First, our receivables are expanding due to improved business activity and resulting growth in our customers' sales. Second, we continue to experience a shift in our customer mix due to relatively stronger sales growth from national account customers, which tend to be larger and carry longer payment terms than our non-national account customers. 36 Our inventory balances over time will respond to business activity, though various factors produce a looser relationship to our monthly sales patterns than we tend to experience in accounts receivable. One reason for this is because it is cyclical. We source significant quantities of product from overseas, and the lead time involved in procuring these products is typically longer than the visibility we have into future monthly sales patterns. As a result, trends in our inventory will often lag trends in economic conditions. A second reason relates to product cost and the length of our supply chain. A significant proportion of our products, particularly fasteners, are sourced from Asia and transported primarily by ship and rail to our North American network for sale. This requires us to purchase a meaningful quantity of our products months in advance of those products being available for sale in our North American facilities. Product that is in transit is in our inventory but is not available for sales, which can create a lag in our ability to adjust inventory levels or costs in response to rapid changes in economic or cost conditions. A third reason for increases in our inventory balances is our growth drivers, including our FMI offerings, Onsite channel, and international expansion, all of which tend to require significant investments in inventory. In 2022, our inventories increased, reflecting significant inflation in the value of stocked parts, the addition of inventory to support the growth of our manufacturing and construction customers as they expand production to meet improved business activity, deeper inventory stocking due to disruption in supply chains, and our efforts to sustain higher internal fulfillment rates. In 2022, the annual growth in accounts payable reflected product purchases increasing to support the improvement in business activity at our manufacturing and construction customers. The approximate percentage mix of inventory stocked at our selling locations versus our distribution center and manufacturing locations was as follows at year end: Lease Obligations We have facilities, equipment, and vehicles leased under operating leases. A discussion of our lease obligations is contained in Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Net Cash Used in Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities in dollars and as a percentage of net earnings were as follows: The changes in net cash used in investing activities in 2022 was primarily related to higher net capital expenditures. Property and equipment expenditures typically consist primarily of: (1) purchases related to industrial vending, (2) purchases of property and equipment related to expansion of and enhancements to distribution centers, (3) spending on software and hardware for our information processing systems, (4) the addition of fleet vehicles, (5) expansion, improvement or investment in certain owned or leased branch properties, and (6) the addition of manufacturing and warehouse equipment. Proceeds from the sales of property and equipment, typically for the planned disposition of pick-up trucks as well as distribution vehicles and trailers in the normal course of business, are netted against these purchases an d additions. 37 Set forth below is a recap of our 2022 and 2021 net capital expenditures in dollars and as a percentage of net sales and net earnings: Our net capital expenditures increased in 2022, when compared to 2021. The most significant area driving this increase was higher spending on FMI equipment. We had slightly higher property spending, which reflected significant investments in automation and upgrades at our hubs mostly offset by lower spending on a new building in downtown Winona, which was completed in 2021. We had only modest increases related to our vehicle fleet, manufacturing operations, and information technology. Net capital expenditures in 2022 were below our anticipated range of $170.0 to $190.0 due to certain equipment and project delays related to hub projects. We expect our net capital expenditures in 2023 to be within a range of $210.0 to $230.0. This increase from 2022 reflects: spending on upgrades to and investments in automation at certain hubs; the beginning of construction of a distribution center in Utah; investment in materials to facilitate our branch conversion projects; higher spending on information technology; and investments in fleet equipment to support our network of heavy trucks. Net Cash Used in Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities in dollars and as a percentage of net earnings were as follows: The fluctuations in net cash used in financing activities are due to changes in the level of our dividend payments and in the level of common stock purchases. These amounts were partially offset by the exercise of stock options and net payments (proceeds) from debt obligations. These items in dollars and as a percentage of earnings were as follows: 38 Stock Purchases In 2022, we purchased 5,000,000 shares of our common stock at an average price of approximately $47.58 per share. In 2021, we did not purchase any shares of our common stock. Dividends We declared a quarterly dividend of $0.35 per share on January 18, 2023. In 2022, we paid aggregate annual dividends per share of $1.24. In 2021, we paid aggregate annual dividends per share of $1.12. Debt In order to fund the considerable cash needed to expand our industrial vending business, expand capacity and increase the use of automation in our distribution centers, pay dividends, and, in 2022, to purchase our common stock, we have borrowed under our Credit Facility and our Master Note Agreement in recent periods. Our borrowings under the Credit Facility and Master Note Agreement peaked during each quarter of 2022 as follows: As of December 31, 2022, we had $225.0 outstanding under the Credit Facility and had contingent obligations from letters of credit outstanding under the Credit Facility in an aggregate face amount of $36.3. As of December 31, 2022, we had loans outstanding under the Master Note Agreement of $330.0. Descriptions of our Credit Facility and Master Note Agreement are contained in Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Material Cash Requirements Our material cash requirements for known contractual obligations include capital expenditures, debt, and lease obligations, each of which are discussed in more detail earlier in this section. We believe that net cash provided by operating activities will be adequate to meet our liquidity and capital needs for these items in the short-term over the next 12 months and also in the long-term beyond the next 12 months. We also have cash requirements for purchase orders and contracts for the purchase of inventory and other goods and services, which are based on current distribution needs and are fulfilled by our suppliers within short time horizons. We do not have significant agreements for the purchase of inventory or other goods or services specifying minimum order quantities. In addition, we may have liabilities for uncertain tax positions but we do not believe any of these liabilities will be material. A discussion of income taxes is contained in Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Unremitted Foreign Earnings Approximately $184.4 of cash and cash equivalents are held by non-U.S. subsidiaries. These funds may create foreign currency translation gains or losses depending on the functional currency of the entity holding the cash. We have considered the financial requirements of each foreign subsidiary and our parent company and will continue to reinvest these funds to support our expansion activities outside the U.S., even after taking into consideration the deemed repatriation and transition tax under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. The income tax impact of repatriating cash associated with investments in foreign subsidiaries is discussed in Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Effects of Inflation In 2022, we began to observe easing in inflationary pressures for metals (especially steel), energy, and transportation services (especially overseas containers and shipping). However, this did not translate into a reduction in inflationary pressures on our financial results for two reasons. First, inflationary pressures accelerated through 2021, and many periods in 2022 were comparing to lower cost levels in the preceding year. Second, we have a long supply chain for many products, and it can take several quarters from when inflationary pressures begin to recede for the effect to impact our earnings results. In 2022, we increased prices, sought alternative sources for products and service, and consolidated spend for products and services as a means of mitigating inflation. However, higher product and transportation costs did have a slightly negative effect on our gross margin percentage for the full year. 39 PRIOR YEAR RESULTS ENDED 2021 Results of Operations The following sets forth consolidated statements of earnings information (as a percentage of net sales) for the periods ended December 31: Net Sales Note – Daily sales are defined as the total net sales for the period divided by the number of business days (in the United States) in the period. The table below sets forth net sales and daily sales for the periods ended December 31, and changes in such sales from the prior period to the more recent period: The increase in net sales noted above for 2021 was due to higher unit sales of industrial products to traditional manufacturing and construction customers and higher pricing, only partly offset by lower pandemic-related personal protection equipment (PPE) sales as the prior year's demand surge did not recur. Higher unit sales in 2021 were a result of strong economic activity which increased demand for our products to our traditional manufacturing and construction customers. Although economic strength was fairly consistent throughout the year, our growth patterns were not, primarily due to comparisons related to the timing of pandemic-related PPE sales in the previous year. For instance, our daily sales growth in the first half of 2021 was 2.5%. Our cyclical product categories substantially outperformed this, as exemplified by fastener daily sales growth of 15.4% in the first half of 2021. However, this was mostly offset by the absence of significant spending for PPE that occurred in the previous period, which is best illustrated by safety products' daily sales decline of 20.2% in first half of 2021. By contrast, our daily sales growth in the second half of 2021 was a much stronger 12.3%. Our cyclical product categories continued to outperform with fastener daily sales having grown 22.2% in the second half of 2021. While certain products and markets within our business continued to face difficult PPE comparisons, they were not as severe as what had been experienced in the first half of 2021, which allowed our safety products to post daily growth of 0.3% in the second half of 2021. Our growth drivers also returned to contributing meaningfully to higher unit sales in 2021, due to strong business activity within our customer base and, to a lesser degree, a higher installed base of FMI devices. Our number of active Onsites increased 11.9%, for instance, while Onsite daily sales growth was 20.6%. Similarly, our installed base of FMI MEUs increased 10.6%, while FMI daily sales growth was 41.0%. While demand was strong throughout 2021, the year experienced certain disruptions. The first were supply chain constraints, as the rapid recovery in demand resulted in shortages in production and shipping capacity. The second was labor shortages, which were particularly acute in the market for part-time employees. The third was the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, which continued to produce periodic surges in infection rates. While businesses largely managed through these events as opposed to stopping production, the instability it created in worker availability exacerbated the pre-existing supply chain and labor challenges. The fourth was inflation in material costs, overseas and domestic transportation expenses, and labor wage rates. We believe the most significant impact of these disruptions was on our growth driver signings. We signed 274 Onsites in 2021, above the prior year (223 signings) but well below our goal at the start of 2021 of 375 to 400 units. Similarly, we signed 19,311 FMI MEUs, above the prior year (16,503 MEUs), but well below our goal at the start of the year of 23,000 to 25,000 MEUs. 40 We believe many of our customers were diverting significant energy to managing the effects of supply chain, labor, COVID-19, and inflation in the short term, and it lengthened the sales cycle for our supply chain solutions. Price contributed 200 to 230 basis points to our net sales growth in 2021. We instituted a number of pricing events during 2021 as a means of mitigating rising product and transportation costs. As these events fell more heavily into the second half of the year, price contributed an increasing amount through the period, with price in the fourth quarter of 2021 contributing 440 to 470 basis points to net sales growth. Sales by Product Line The approximate mix of sales from fasteners, safety supplies, and all other product lines was as follows: The shifts in product mix in 2021 compared to 2020 reflect the impact of the pandemic. In 2020, actions taken by governments and businesses to address COVID-19 caused a significant decline in economic activity that produced sales declines in our cyclical products, such as fasteners, but increased demand for PPE and produced sales growth in our safety products. The effect was to reduce our mix of sales coming from fasteners and other product lines while increasing the mix of sales coming from safety products. In 2021, these dynamics reversed with economic recovery generating strong growth in our cyclical product lines while the absence of surge sales and stabilization in the supply chain for PPE restrained growth in safety products. The effect was to increase our mix of sales coming from fasteners and other product lines while reducing the mix of sales coming from safety products. Our product categories did not fully revert to pre-pandemic levels in 2021, as our mix of safety products in 2021 of 21.2% remained meaningfully above our mix of safety products in 2019 of 17.9%. In the short term, the pandemic created heightened safety and sanitation protocols relative to the pre-pandemic period, and the increased use of related products as a result increased our mix of safety products sales. Annual Sales Changes, Sequential Trends, and End Market Performance This section focuses on three distinct views of our business – annual sales changes by month, sequential trends, and end market performance. The first discussion regarding sales changes by month provides a good mechanical view of our business. The second discussion provides a framework for understanding the sequential trends (that is, comparing a month to the immediately preceding month, and also looking at the cumulative change from an earlier benchmark month) in our business. Finally, we believe the third discussion regarding end market performance provides insight into activities with our various types of customers. Annual Sales Changes, by Month During the months noted below, all of our selling locations, when combined, had a DSR change of (compared to the same month in the preceding year): Sequential Trends The table below shows the pattern to the sequential change in our daily sales. The line labeled 'Benchmark' is a historical average of our sequential daily sales change for the trailing five year average that excludes 2020. We have excluded 2020 from the average as the effects of the pandemic created unusual sequential patterns that we do not consider representative of normal trends. We believe this time frame serves to show the historical pattern and could serve as a benchmark. The '2021' and '2020' lines represent our actual sequential daily sales changes. The '21Delta' and '20Delta' lines indicate the difference between the 'Benchmark' and the actual results in the respective year. Under normal circumstances, the sequential trends shown below are directly linked to fluctuations in our end markets. Further, in any given month it is possible to get significant deviation from the benchmark. However, we do not believe that fully explains the exaggerated delta between the sequential rates of change and the benchmark from March 2020 to July 2020. We believe deviation of this duration and order of magnitude is uncharacteristic in our business and is related to the dramatic impacts of the pandemic in that period. 41 It is important to note that these benchmarks are historical averages. In a year where demand is strong, our daily sales growth rates will tend to have more months that exceed the benchmark than fall below it. In a year where demand is weak, we will tend to have more months that fall short of the benchmark than exceed it. In both cases, there is a random element that makes it difficult to know how any single month will perform. Note – Amounts may not foot due to rounding difference. A graph of the sequential daily sales change patterns discussed above, starting with a base of '100' in the previous October and ending with the next October, would be as follows: 42 End Market Performance The DSR change to our manufacturing customers, when compared to the same period in the prior year, was as follows: From a company perspective, the DSR change of fasteners, when compared to the same period in the prior year, was as follows (note: this information includes all end markets): From a company perspective, the DSR change of non-fasteners, when compared to the same period in the prior year, was as follows (note: this information includes all end markets): Two product lines, safety and janitorial, accounted for approximately 44% of total non-fastener sales in 2021. As previously disclosed, COVID-19 generated outsized growth in these two product categories in 2020 and the subsequent stabilization of the supply chain resulted in a reduction in orders and sales performance in 2021 that was well below what might normally be expected given the health of the industrial economy. As a result, the change in our non-fastener lines in 2021 and 2020 did not provide as much insight into the trends of our traditional manufacturing and construction customers as is typically the case. Still, we have sold non-fastener products through multiple cycles that do not include a pandemic and believe we can make several observations. Generally speaking, our non-fastener business is not immune to the impact of industrial cycles. However, we would typically expect it to outperform our fastener business in any cycle. This reflects three things: the non-fastener market is larger than the fastener market, we are underpenetrated in the non-fastener market relative to the fastener market, and industrial vending lends itself to sales of non-fastener products. The DSR change to our non-residential construction and reseller customers, when compared to the same period in the prior year, was as follows: Our non-residential construction and reseller business is heavily influenced by manufacturing, oil and gas, and infrastructure spending. In 2021, improving economic business conditions, high prices for commodities such as metals and energy, and tightening facilities utilization produced improving growth rates throughout the year. In 2020, the poor and slowing production environment, respectively and as described above, and the accompanying worsening trends for commodities such as metals and energy, caused the growth in our non-residential construction and reseller customers to slow. Gross Profit The gross profit percentage during each period was as follows: Our gross profit, as a percentage of net sales, was 46.2% in 2021 and 45.5% in 2020. The gross profit percentage for 2021 increased by 70 basis points based on higher product margins, primarily for safety products and overhead/organizational leverage related to higher volumes. During 2021, our gross profit percentage increased when compared to the prior year. This was largely due to three factors. (1) We were able to leverage overhead/organizational expenses, absorbing certain fixed and period costs related to cyclical strength in our traditional manufacturing and construction markets. (2) An improvement in product margins, particularly for safety products. In response to the pandemic in 2020, we experienced a substantial surge in demand for COVID-related safety supplies, such that these products accounted for approximately 47% of total safety product sales in 2020, up from 43 approximately 25% of total safety product sales in 2019. As these products tended to carry a lower gross margin than non-COVID-related products, their substantial expansion in our safety product mix in 2020 caused a decline in the gross profit percentage of our safety product line. In 2021, we experienced higher demand for non-COVID-related products as the industrial economy improved and lower demand for COVID-related products as the supply chain steadied. This caused our mix of lower margin COVID-related products to decline to approximately 31% of total safety product sales, improving our overall safety product margin. (3) Our net rebates were favorable in 2021. As supply chains normalized and demand improved, we purchased more products through our traditional partners increasing our supplier rebates. At the same time, customer rebates moderated as spending from several key customers that purchased significant COVID-related products declined. These variables were only partly offset by a $7.8 write-down of masks in the first quarter of 2021. The impact of price/cost was neutral for 2021, as we were able to lift prices in response to higher costs for products and transportation services. The net impact of product and customer mix was also neutral for 2021, as the benefit of relatively stronger fastener sales to product mix was negatively impacted by relatively stronger growth from larger and Onsite customers. Operating and Administrative Expenses Our operating and administrative expenses, as a percentage of net sales, increased by approximately 70 basis points to 26.0% in 2021 from 25.3% in 2020. Employee-related expenses, as a percentage of net sales, increased by approximately 80 basis points. Occupancy-related expenses, as a percentage of net sales, decreased by approximately 10 basis points. All other operating and administrative expenses, as a percentage of net sales, was largely unchanged in 2021 from 2020. The percentage change in employee-rela ted, occupancy-related, and al l other operating and administrative expenses (including the loss (gain) on sales of property and equipment) compared to the same periods in the preceding year, is outlined in the table below. Our employee-related expenses increased in 2021 from 2020. This was related to: improvement in our sales and profitability generating significantly higher bonuses and commissions; higher health insurance costs as employees became comfortable again in seeking non-COVID-related health care; an increase in our profit sharing contribution; and higher full-time and part-time wages producing an increase in base pay. 44 The table below summarizes the percentage change in our FTE headcount at the end of the periods presented compared to the end of the prior period: Our occupancy-related expenses increased in 2021 from 2020. This was related to: the timing of development costs related to equipment utilized as part of our FMI suite of technologies; depreciation related to a higher installed base of FMI devices; and higher facility costs, with higher costs for non-branch facilities and utilities being only partly offset by slightly lower costs for branch facilities from branch closings. Combined, all other operating and administrative expenses increased in 2021 from 2020. This was related to: higher spending on information technology; higher spending on travel, meals, and supplies as business activity recovered from the COVID-related travel restrictions of 2020; and higher costs for legal settlements. These elements were partly offset by lower bad debt expenses and lower general insurance costs. Net Interest Expense Our net interest expense was $9.6 in 2021 compared to $9.1 in 2020. This was related to: lower interest income, as the special dividend paid in December 2020 resulted in lower interest-earning cash balances in 2021; slightly higher interest expense which was the net result of slightly higher average interest rates and slightly lower average debt. During 2021, we repaid one tranche under our Master Note Agreement, reducing the balance from $405.0 to $390.0. However, in the fourth quarter of 2021 we increased our balance outstanding under our revolver by $25.0 to support working capital growth. Income Taxes We recorded income tax expense of $282.8 in 2021, or 23.4% of earnings before income taxes, compared to $273.6 in 2020, or 24.2% of earnings before income taxes. Our effective tax rate reflects an $8.7 reduction in income tax expense due to discrete items mainly relating to benefits associated with the exercise of stock options and changes in the reserve for uncertain tax positions. 45 Net Earnings Net earnings, net earnings per share (EPS), the percentage change in net earnings, and the percentage change in EPS, were as follows: During 2021, net earnings increased, primarily due to stronger sales translating into higher pre-tax profits, as well as a lower income tax rate. Liquidity and Capital Resources Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities in dollars and as a percentage of net earnings were as follows: In 2021, the decrease in our operating cash flow as a percentage of net earnings was due to significant growth in working capital as we supported growth in our customers' operations as well as, in the case of inventory, significant product inflation. This was only slightly mitigated by ongoing efforts to improve the efficiency of our working capital and contrasts sharply with 2020 when weaker demand from our customers resulted in working capital being a net source of operating cash. Trade Working Capital Assets The following table sets forth the dollar and percentage change in accounts receivable, net, inventories, and accounts payable for the period ended December 31: Note – Amounts may not foot due to rounding difference. In 2021, the annual growth in net accounts receivable reflected several factors. First, our receivables were expanding as a result of improved business activity and resulting growth in our customers' sales. Second, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, customers that traditionally have shorter payment terms represented a smaller proportion of our sales mix at the end of 2021 than was the case at the end of 2020. 46 Our inventory balances over time will respond to business activity, though various factors produce a looser relationship to our monthly sales patterns than we tend to experience in accounts receivable. One reason for this is cyclical. We source significant quantities of product from overseas, and the lead time involved in procuring these products is typically longer than the visibility we have into future monthly sales patterns. As a result, trends in our inventory will often lag trends in economic conditions. A second reason is our growth drivers, including our FMI offerings, Onsite channel, and international expansion, all of which tend to require significant investments in inventory. In 2021, our inventories increased, reflecting significant inflation in the value of stocked parts, and the addition of inventory to support the growth of our manufacturing and construction customers as they expanded production to meet improved business activity, and deeper inventory stocking due to disruption in supply chains. In 2021, the annual growth in accounts payable reflected product purchases increasing to support the improvement in business activity at our manufacturing and construction customers. The approximate percentage mix of inventory stocked at our selling locations versus our distribution center and manufacturing locations was as follows at year end: Net Cash Used in Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities in dollars and as a percentage of net earnings were as follows: The changes in net cash used in investing activities in 2021 were primarily related to the absence of an acquisition, in contrast to the $125.0 spent in 2020 for the purchase of certain assets of Apex Industrial Technologies LLC (Apex), as well as lower net capital expenditures. Set forth below is a recap of our 2021 and 2020 net capital expenditures in dollars and as a percentage of net sales and net earnings: Our net capital expenditures decreased in 2021, when compared to 2020. We had higher spending on an office building construction project in Winona, Minnesota intended to support growth in our business. This was more than offset by reduced spending in other areas. We saw a significant decline in spending on FMI equipment due to slower hardware signings, lower vending equipment costs following the March 2020 acquisition of certain industrial vending assets of Apex, and an increase in the refurbishment and redeployment of FMI hardware as an alternative to buying new devices. We also had lower capital investment in our hub properties following a period of heavier investment in 2018 and 2019, and reduced spending on selling-related vehicles as challenges in the supply chain reduced availability. 47 Net Cash Used in Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities in dollars and as a percentage of net earnings were as follows: The fluctuations in net cash used in financing activities were due to changes in the level of our dividend payments and in the level of common stock purchases. These amounts were partially offset by the exercise of stock options and net payments (proceeds) from debt obligations. These items in dollars and as a percentage of earnings were as follows: Stock Purchases In 2021, we did not purchase any shares of our common stock. In 2020, we pu rchased 1,600,000 shares of our common stock at an average price of approximately $32.54. Dividends In 2021, we paid aggregate annual dividends per sha re of $1.12. In 2020, we paid aggregate annual dividends per share of $1.40, which included $1.00 in regular quarterly dividends and a $0.40 special dividend paid in December 2020 as a result of our high cash balances and favorable financial outlook. Debt Our borrowings under the Credit Facility and Master Note Agreement peaked during each quarter of 2021 as follows: Effects of Inflation In 2021, we experienced significant increases in the cost of metals (especially steel), energy, and transportation (especially overseas containers and shipping). These inflationary trends meaningfully increased the cost of many of the products we purchase. We were able to mitigate the adverse effects of higher costs on our gross profit percentage in 2021 by increasing prices, seeking alternative sources for products and services, and consolidating spend for products and services. While the effects of inflation in 2021 were broad-based, we did experience deflation for certain COVID-related products that had inflated in 2020 when the supply chain was disrupted. This did require us to write down the value of these products in 2021, which negatively impacted our gross profit percentage in the first quarter of 2021 and, to a lesser extent, throughout the balance of the year. 48 Critical Accounting Estimates In preparing our consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP, we must make decisions that impact the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and the related disclosures. Such decisions include the selection of the appropriate accounting principles to be applied and the assumptions on which to base accounting estimates. In reaching such decisions, we apply judgments based on our understanding and analysis of relevant circumstances, historical experience, and actuarial valuations. Actual amounts could differ from those estimated at the time the consolidated financial statements are prepared. Our most significant accounting policies, including Revenue Recognition and Inventories, are described in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Some of those significant accounting policies require us to make difficult, subjective, or complex judgments, or estimates. An accounting estimate is considered to be critical if it meets both of the following criteria: (i) the estimate requires assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time the accounting estimate is made, and (ii) different estimates reasonably could have been used, or changes in the estimate that are reasonably likely to occur from period to period may have a material impact on the presentation of our financial condition, changes in financial condition, or results of operations. Our most critical accounting estimates include the following: Allowance for Credit Losses – This reserve is for accounts receivable balances that are potentially uncollectible. The allowance for credit losses is based on an income statement approach which adjusts the ending balance sheet to take into consideration expected losses over the contractual lives of the receivables, considering factors such as historical data as a basis for future expected losses. If business or economic conditions change, our estimates and assumptions may be adjusted as deemed appropriate. Historically, actual required reserves have not varied materially from estimated amounts. Inventory valuation – Adjustments to the valuation of inventory are based on an analysis of inventory trends including reviews of inventory levels, sales information, and the on-hand quantities relative to the sales history for the product. Our methodology for estimating whether adjustments are necessary is continually evaluated for factors including significant changes in product demand, market conditions, condition of the inventory, or liquidation value. If business or economic conditions change, our estimates and assumptions may be adjusted as deemed appropriate. Historically, actual required adjustments have not varied materially from estimated amounts. General insurance reserves – These reserves are for general claims related to workers' compensation, property and casualty losses, and other general liability self-insured losses. The reserves are based on an analysis of reported claims and claims incurred but not yet reported related to our historical claim trends. We perform ongoing reviews of our insured and uninsured risks and use this information to establish appropriate reserve levels. We analyze historical trends, claims experience, and loss development patterns to ensure the appropriate loss development factors are applied to the incurred costs associated with the claims made. Historically, actual required reserves have not varied materially from estimated amounts. Recently Issued and Adopted Accounting Pronouncements A description of recently issued and adopted accounting pronouncements, if any, is contained in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 49