********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

In addition to the other information set forth in this Annual Report, you should carefully consider the following factors, which could materially affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and the price of our common stock. Additional risks not currently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial also may materially affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and the price of our common stock. Macroeconomic and Market Risks We are directly affected by the state of the global economy and geopolitical developments. While macroeconomic risks apply to most companies, we are particularly vulnerable. The transportation industry is highly cyclical and especially susceptible to trends in economic activity. Our primary business is to transport goods, so our business levels are directly tied to the purchase and production of goods and the rate of global trade growth — key macroeconomic measurements influenced by, among other things, inflation and deflation, supply chain disruptions, interest rates and currency exchange rates, labor costs and unemployment levels, fuel and energy prices, inventory levels, spending patterns (including shifts from goods to services and vice versa), disposable income, debt levels, credit availability, and public health crises. When individuals and companies purchase and produce fewer goods, we transport fewer goods, and as companies move manufacturing closer to consumer markets and expand the number of distribution centers, we transport goods shorter distances, which adversely affects our yields and results of operations. Certain manufacturers and retailers are making investments to produce and store goods in closer proximity to supply chains and consumers in connection with recent macroeconomic, geopolitical, and public health developments. Additionally, in 2024 we continued to see customer preference for slower, less costly shipping services and experienced lower fuel surcharges at all of our transportation segments and reduced demand surcharges at FedEx Express. We expect service mix to shift further toward deferred service offerings in 2025. Further, the scale of our operations and our relatively high fixed-cost structure, particularly with respect to our air network, make it difficult to quickly adjust to match shifting volume levels. For more information, see “Our businesses are capital intensive, and we must make capital decisions based upon projected volume levels.” below. The decline in U.S. imports of consumer goods that started in late 2022, along with slowed global industrial production, has contributed to weakened economic conditions for the transportation industry. Consequently, this environment has led to lower freight and package volumes at FedEx Express and FedEx Freight, negatively affecting our results in 2024. We are experiencing a decline in demand for our transportation services as inflation and high interest rates are negatively affecting consumer and business spending. We expect inflation and high interest rates to continue to negatively affect our results in 2025. See Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition” of this Annual Report for additional information. Moreover, given the nature of our business and our global operations, political, economic, and other conditions in foreign countries and regions, including international taxes, government-to-government relations, the typically more volatile economies of emerging markets, and geopolitical risks such as the ongoing conflicts between Russia and Ukraine and in the Middle East, may adversely affect our business and results of operations. We have suspended all services in Ukraine and Belarus. We also temporarily idled our operations in Russia and reduced our presence to the minimum required for purposes of maintaining a legal presence with active transport licenses. While these conflicts have not had, and we do not expect these conflicts to have, a direct material effect on our business or results of operations, the broader consequences of these conflicts, which may include further sanctions, embargoes, regional instability, and geopolitical shifts; airspace bans relating to certain routes, or strategic decisions to alter certain routes; potential retaliatory action by foreign governments and other groups against us; increased tensions between the United States and countries in which we operate; and the extent of the conflict’s effect on our business and results of operations as well as the global economy, cannot be predicted. Geopolitical uncertainty negatively affected our results of operations in recent years. To the extent the continued conflicts between Russia and Ukraine and in the Middle East, or subsequent similar conflicts, adversely affect our business, they may also have the effect of heightening many other risks disclosed in this Annual Report, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Such risks include, but are not limited to, disruptions to our global technology infrastructure, including through cyberattack or cyber-intrusion, ransomware attack, or malware attack; adverse changes in international trade policies; increased costs and unavailability of fuel; our ability to implement and execute our business strategy, particularly with regard to our international business; disruptions in global supply chains, which can limit the access of FedEx and our service providers to vehicles and other key capital resources and increase our costs and could affect our ability to achieve our goal of carbon neutrality for our global operations by calendar 2040; our ability to maintain our strong reputation and the value of the FedEx brand; terrorist activities targeting transportation infrastructure; our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations; and constraints, volatility, or disruption in the capital markets. Additional changes in international trade policies and relations could significantly reduce the volume of goods transported globally and adversely affect our business and results of operations. The U.S. government has taken certain actions that have negatively affected U.S. trade, including imposing tariffs on certain goods imported into the U.S. Additionally, several foreign - 24 - governments have imposed tariffs on certain goods imported from the U.S. These actions contributed to weakness in the global economy that adversely affected our results of operations in recent years. Any further changes in U.S. or international trade policy, including tariffs, export controls, quotas, embargoes, or sanctions, could trigger additional retaliatory actions by affected countries, resulting in “trade wars” and further increased costs for goods transported globally, which may reduce customer demand for these products if the parties having to pay tariffs or other anti-trade measures increase their prices, or in trading partners limiting their trade with countries that impose such measures. Political uncertainty surrounding international trade and other disputes could also have a negative effect on business and consumer confidence and spending. Such conditions could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition, as well as on the price of our common stock. Additionally, the U.S. government has taken action to limit the ability of domestic companies to engage in commerce with certain foreign entities under certain circumstances, and foreign governments may investigate our compliance with these restrictions. Furthermore, given the nature of our business and our global recognizability, foreign governments may target FedEx by limiting the ability of foreign entities to do business with us in certain instances, imposing monetary or other penalties or taking other retaliatory action, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition, as well as on the price of our common stock. Our transportation businesses are affected by the price and availability of jet and vehicle fuel. We must purchase large quantities of fuel to operate our aircraft and vehicles, and the price and availability of fuel is beyond our control and can be highly volatile. In addition, our purchased transportation expense is affected by fuel costs. To date, we have been mostly successful in mitigating over time the expense effect of higher fuel costs through our indexed fuel surcharges, as the amount of the surcharges is closely linked to the market prices for fuel. If we are unable to maintain or increase our fuel surcharges because of competitive pricing pressures or some other reason, fuel costs could adversely affect our operating results. Lower fuel prices negatively affected yields through lower fuel surcharges at all of our transportation segments during 2024. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition” of this Annual Report for more information. As of May 31, 2024, we had no derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to fuel price fluctuations. Even if we are able to offset the cost of fuel with our surcharges, high fuel surcharges could move our customers away from our higher-yielding express services to our lower-yielding deferred or ground services or even reduce customer demand for our services altogether. In addition, disruptions in the supply of fuel could have a negative effect on our ability to operate our transportation networks. The following factors may affect fuel supply and could result in shortages and price increases in the future: weather-related events; natural disasters; political disruptions or wars involving oil-producing countries; economic sanctions imposed against oil-producing countries or specific industry participants; changes in governmental policy concerning fuel production, transportation, taxes, or marketing; changes in refining capacity; environmental concerns; cyberattacks; and public and investor sentiment. Operating Risks The failure to successfully execute our DRIVE transformation, including Network 2.0, in the expected time frame and at the expected cost may adversely affect our future results. In the first quarter of 2023, FedEx announced our DRIVE transformation program to improve long-term profitability, including Network 2.0, the multi-year effort to improve the efficiency with which FedEx picks up, transports, and delivers packages in the U.S. and Canada. In the fourth quarter of 2023, we announced one FedEx, a consolidation plan to bring FedEx Ground and FedEx Services into Federal Express. Additionally, in 2024 we announced Tricolor, the redesign of the Federal Express international air network as part of the DRIVE program to improve efficiency and asset utilization. While the new legal structure was completed in June 2024, network integration and optimization are ongoing. See “Item 1. Business” and “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition” of this Annual Report for more information. These entities historically operated as separate and independent businesses and networks. There can be no assurances that these businesses and networks can successfully be fully integrated as planned. It is possible that the integration process could result in higher than currently expected costs, less-than-expected savings, the loss of customers, the disruption of ongoing businesses, union organizing, litigation, government agency challenges, the loss of key employees or service providers, or other unexpected issues. It is also possible that the overall process will take longer than currently anticipated. Additionally, the following issues, among others, must be addressed in order to realize the anticipated timing and projected benefits of our DRIVE transformation: •     our ability to maintain coverage of U.S. employees at Federal Express under the RLA and manage challenges to the employment status of drivers employed by service providers utilized in certain linehaul and pickup-and-delivery operations, in addition to other labor-related risks; •     combining the Federal Express and legacy FedEx Ground physical networks and operations, including consolidating or optimizing pickup-and-delivery and linehaul operations; - 25 - •     integrating, consolidating, and implementing new administrative and back-office support functions, information-technology infrastructure, and computer systems of the respective companies; •     integrating and unifying the offerings and services available to FedEx customers; •     harmonizing certain operating practices; human resource management practices such as employee recruitment, development, and compensation programs; internal controls; and other policies, procedures, and processes; •     maintaining existing agreements with customers and service providers and avoiding delays in entering into new agreements with prospective customers and service providers; •     legal challenges by service providers or government agencies seeking to slow or stop plans related to Network 2.0; •     addressing possible differences in business backgrounds, corporate cultures, and management philosophies; •     addressing employee issues so as to promote retention and maintain efficient and effective labor and employee relations; •     maintaining access to ports of call and railroads for intermodal support; •     managing the movement of certain positions to different locations; •     obtaining any required regulatory licenses, operating authority, or contractual consents; and •     managing unforeseen increased expenses or delays associated with the integration process. We may be unable to achieve the expected operational efficiencies and network flexibility, alignment of our cost base with demand, cost savings and reductions to our permanent cost structure, and other benefits from our DRIVE transformation. The actual amount and timing of costs to be incurred and related cost savings and reductions to our permanent cost structure resulting from these initiatives and enhancements may differ from our current expectations and estimates. These initiatives and enhancements could also result in asset impairment charges and changes to our tax liabilities and deferred tax balances and subject us to litigation. If we are not able to successfully implement our DRIVE transformation our future financial results will suffer and we may not be able to achieve our financial performance goals. All of these factors could adversely affect FedEx’s results of operations and negatively affect the price of our common stock. In addition, at times the attention of certain members of our management may be focused on the DRIVE transformation and diverted from day-to-day business operations, which may disrupt our business. A significant data breach or other disruption to our technology infrastructure could disrupt our operations and result in the loss of critical sensitive or confidential information, adversely affecting our reputation, business, or results of operations. Our ability to attract and retain customers, efficiently operate our businesses, execute our DRIVE transformation, and compete effectively increasingly depend in part upon the sophistication, security, and reliability of our technology network, including our ability to provide features of service that are important to our customers, to protect our confidential business information and the information provided by our customers, and to maintain customer confidence in our ability to protect our systems and to provide services consistent with their expectations. For example, we rely on information technology to receive shipment information in advance of physical receipt of packages, to track items that move through our delivery systems, to efficiently plan deliveries, to clear shipments through customs, to execute billing processes, and to track and report financial and operational data. We are subject to risks imposed by data breaches and operational disruptions, both random and targeted, including through cyberattack or cyber-intrusion, ransomware attack, malware attack, or denial of service attack by computer hackers, foreign governments and state-sponsored actors, cyber terrorists and hacktivists, cyber criminals, malicious employees or other insiders of FedEx or third-party service providers, and other groups and individuals. Data breaches and other technology disruptions of companies and governments continue to increase as the number, intensity, and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased and we, our customers, and third parties increasingly store and transmit data by means of connected information technology systems. Additionally, risks such as code anomalies, “Acts of God,” transitional challenges in migrating operating company functionality to our FedEx enterprise automation platforms, data leakage, cyber-fraud, and human error pose a direct threat to our products, services, systems, and data and could result in unauthorized or block legitimate access to sensitive or confidential data regarding our operations, customers, employees, and suppliers, including personal information. The technology infrastructure of acquired businesses, as well as their practices related to the use and maintenance of data, could also present issues that we were not able to identify prior to the acquisition. For example, ShopRunner, which we acquired in 2021, collects - 26 - and stores certain personal data of its merchants and their buyers, its partners, consumers with whom it has a direct relationship, and users of its applications. Additionally, it uses third-party service providers and subprocessors to help deliver services to merchants and their buyers. These service providers and subprocessors may store or access personal data and/or other confidential information. The foregoing factors increase the risk of data incidents and the amount of potential exposure in the event of a data breach. We also depend on and interact with the technology and systems of third parties, including our customers and third-party service providers such as cloud service providers and delivery services. Such third parties may host, process, or have access to information we maintain about our company, customers, employees, and vendors or operate systems that are critical to our business operations and services. Like us, these third parties are subject to risks imposed by data breaches, cyberattacks, and other events or actions that could damage, disrupt, or close down their networks or systems. We have security processes, protocols, and standards in place, including contractual provisions requiring such security measures, that are applicable to such third parties and are designed to protect information that is held by them, or to which they have access, as a result of their engagements with us. Nevertheless, a cyberattack could defeat one or more of such third parties’ security measures, allowing an attacker to obtain information about our company, customers, employees, and vendors or disrupt our operations. These third parties may also experience operational disruptions or human error that could result in unauthorized access to sensitive or confidential data regarding our operations, customers, employees, and suppliers, including personal information. See “Failure of third-party service providers to perform as expected, or disruptions in our relationships with those providers or their provision of services to FedEx, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations” below for more information. From time to time we experience disruptions to our complex, global technology infrastructure, including our computer systems and websites. Such events could result in the loss of confidential business or customer information; require substantial repairs or replacements, resulting in significant costs; and lead to the temporary or permanent transfer by customers of some or all of their business to our competitors. The foregoing could harm our reputation and adversely affect our business, customer service, and results of operations. Additionally, a security breach could require us to devote significant management resources to address the problems created. These types of adverse effects could also occur in the event the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of company and customer information was compromised due to a data loss by FedEx or a trusted third party. We or the third parties with which we share information may not discover any security breach and loss of information for a significant period of time after the security breach occurs. Even if we detect a cybersecurity incident, the nature and extent of the incident may not be immediately clear. It may also not be clear how best to contain and remediate any harm caused by the cybersecurity incident, and certain errors or actions could be repeated or compounded before they are discovered and remediated. Based on the sophistication of threat actors and the size and complexity of our information systems and network environment, among other factors, an investigation into a cybersecurity incident could take a significant amount of time to complete. In addition, while the investigation of a cybersecurity incident is ongoing, we may not know the full extent of the harm caused by a threat actor, and such harm may spread both internally and to certain customers, vendors, or other third parties. Additionally, our logging capabilities and the logging capabilities of third parties are not always complete or sufficiently detailed, which could affect our ability to fully investigate and understand the scope of security events. Given the age, size, and complexity of our computer systems and network environment, patches for certain vulnerabilities may not exist and, even where patches or other risk-mitigating activities are available, the development of patches or execution of risk-mitigating actions may not occur before an underlying vulnerability is exploited or results in the compromise of our information systems or data. A significant number of our employees as well as customers and others with whom we do business continue to work remotely or in hybrid models, which may heighten these risks. These risks may also be heightened by our DRIVE transformation, including Network 2.0 and our recently completed one FedEx consolidation. Furthermore, we are subject to an increasing number of cybersecurity reporting obligations in different jurisdictions that vary in their scope and application, creating conflicting reporting requirements. These factors and the time spent to comply may inhibit our ability to quickly provide complete and reliable information about the cybersecurity incident to customers, counterparties, and regulators, as well as the public. Any or all of these factors could further increase the costs and consequences of a cybersecurity incident on our business and results of operations. See “Our business is subject to complex and evolving U.S. and foreign laws and regulations regarding data protection.” below for additional information on risks related to legal and regulatory developments with respect to data protection. We have invested and continue to invest in technology security initiatives, information-technology risk management, business continuity, and disaster recovery plans, including investments to retire and replace end-of-life systems. The development and maintenance of these measures is costly and requires ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies change and efforts to overcome security measures become increasingly more frequent, intense, and sophisticated. Despite our efforts, we are not fully insulated from data breaches, technology disruptions, data loss, and cyber-fraud, which could adversely affect our competitiveness and results of operations. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended May 31, 2021 for information regarding the 2017 NotPetya cyberattack at TNT Express and immaterial cyber incidents we experienced in 2017 and 2018. Additionally, we and our third-party service providers, vendors, and suppliers have experienced repeated attempts by cyber - 27 - criminals, some of which have been successful, to gain access to customer accounts for the purposes of fraudulently diverting and misappropriating items being transported in our network, fraudulently charging shipment fees to customer or franchisee accounts, and fraudulently sending e-mails to recipients purporting to be from FedEx. None of these fraudulent cyber activities have caused a material disruption to our systems or resulted in any material costs to FedEx. Our security processes and initiatives may be unable to detect or prevent a breach or disruption in the future. Additionally, the rapid ongoing evolution and increased adoption of emerging technologies such as artificial intelligence and machine learning may make it more difficult to anticipate and implement protective measures to recognize, detect, and prevent the occurrence of any of the cyber events described above. While we have insurance coverage designed to address certain aspects of cyber risks in place, we cannot be certain that such coverage will be sufficient to cover claims, that we will continue to be able to obtain such coverage in amounts we deem sufficient, that our insurance carriers will pay on our insurance claims, or that we will not experience a claim for which coverage is not provided. Failure to adjust our air network to remove costs related to services currently provided to the USPS could adversely affect our profitability. The contract for Federal Express to provide the USPS transportation services within the United States will expire by its terms on September 29, 2024. Federal Express will continue to provide air transportation services domestically and to Puerto Rico through the contract’s expiration. If we are unable to adjust our air network to remove costs related to the services currently provided to the USPS following expiration of the contract, our profitability could be negatively affected. We are self-insured for certain costs associated with our operations, and insurance and claims expenses could have a material adverse effect on us. We are self-insured up to certain limits for costs associated with workers’ compensation claims, vehicle accidents, property and cargo loss, general business liabilities, and benefits paid under employee disability programs. Our self-insurance accruals are primarily based on estimated costs determined by actuarial methods. Estimated costs include consideration of a variety of factors and related assumptions such as the severity of claims, frequency and volume of claims, healthcare inflation, seasonality, and plan designs, which may be subject to a high degree of variability. However, the use of any estimation technique in this area is inherently sensitive given the magnitude of claims involved and the length of time until the ultimate cost is known, which may be several years. Material increases in the magnitude of claims, changes to healthcare costs, accident frequency and severity, insurance retention levels, judgment and settlement amounts, associated legal expenses, and other factors could result in unfavorable differences between actual self-insurance costs and our reserve estimates. As a result, our insurance and claims costs could increase materially in the future, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. As a supplement to our self-insurance program, we maintain coverage with excess insurance carriers for potential losses that exceed the amounts we self-insure. Periodically, we evaluate the level of insurance coverage and adjust insurance levels based on risk tolerance, risk volatility, and premium expense. Although we believe our aggregate insurance limits should be sufficient to cover our historic claims amounts, the commercial trucking industry has experienced a wave of blockbuster or so-called “nuclear” verdicts, including some instances in which juries have awarded hundreds of millions of dollars to those injured in accidents and their families. See Note 9 of the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements included in “Item 1. Financial Statements” of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended August 31, 2022 for information regarding the 2015 jury award of approximately $160 million in compensatory damages in a lawsuit related to a vehicle accident involving a driver employed by a service provider engaged by FedEx Ground, subsequent court affirmation of the award in 2018 and 2022, and our pursuit of reimbursement from insurers of our payment of approximately $210 million of pre- and post-judgment interest. Given this recent trend, it is possible that additional claims could exceed our aggregate coverage limits. If another claim were to exceed our aggregate insurance coverage, we would bear the excess in addition to our exposure not covered by excess insurance carriers. Given the current claims environment, the amount of coverage available from excess insurance carriers is decreasing, the premiums for this excess coverage are increasing significantly, and excess insurance carriers are challenging insurance claims more frequently. Accordingly, our excess insurance and claims expenses may continue to increase, or we could further increase our exposure not covered by excess insurance carriers as policies are renewed or replaced. Our results of operations and financial condition could continue to be adversely affected if our costs or losses significantly exceed our aggregate coverage limits, we are unable to obtain excess insurance coverage in amounts we deem sufficient, our insurance carriers fail to pay on our insurance claims, or we experience a claim for which coverage is not provided. The transportation infrastructure continues to be a target of terrorist activities. Because transportation assets continue to be a target of terrorist activities, governments around the world are adopting or are considering adopting stricter security requirements that will increase operating costs and potentially slow service for businesses, including those in the transportation industry. These security requirements are not static, but change periodically as the result of regulatory and legislative requirements, imposing additional security costs and creating a level of uncertainty for our operations. For example, the TSA requires FedEx to comply with a Full All-Cargo Aircraft Operator Standard Security Plan, which contains evolving and strict security requirements. It is reasonably possible that these rules or other future security requirements could impose material costs on us or slow our service to our customers. The - 28 - effects on our operations of avoiding areas of the world, including airspace, in which there are geopolitical conflicts and the targeting of aircraft by parties to those conflicts can also be significant. Moreover, a terrorist attack directed at FedEx or other aspects of the transportation infrastructure could disrupt our operations and adversely affect demand for our services. Failure of third-party service providers to perform as expected, or disruptions in our relationships with those providers or their provision of services to FedEx, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. FedEx has engaged third-party service providers to perform certain functions that are integral to our business, including the provision of information technology infrastructure, application development, maintenance and support, and end-user support services. There can be no assurance that our third-party service providers will adhere to contractual service performance or compliance requirements, and such service providers may suffer disruptions to their systems, labor groups, or supply chains that could adversely affect their services. We may also have disagreements with such service providers, and related contracts may be terminated or may not be extended or renewed. Additionally, from time to time such service providers have engaged in fraudulent activities in the course of their business relationships with FedEx. Any of the foregoing could disrupt our operations and result in a material adverse effect on our reputation, business, or results of operations. The effects of a widespread outbreak of an illness or any other communicable disease or public health crisis on our business, results of operations, and financial condition are highly unpredictable. A widespread outbreak of an illness or any other communicable disease or public health crisis could have varying effects on the demand for our services, our business operations, and the global economy and supply chains. The extent of the effect of such an event on our business, results of operations, and financial condition, as well as the global economy, will be dictated by developments that cannot be predicted, such as its duration and spread; the success of efforts to contain it and treat its effects, such as travel bans and restrictions, quarantines, shelter-in-place orders, business and government shutdowns, and other restrictions; the possibility of additional subsequent widespread outbreaks and variant strains and the effect of actions taken in response; and the resulting effects on the economic conditions in the global markets in which we operate. Our business is labor and capital intensive in nature, which may require us to incur higher costs to operate our networks during such an event. If we are unable to remain agile and flex our networks to align with shipping volumes, customer needs, disrupted global supply chains and other network inefficiencies, market demands, and operating conditions, or are unable to continuously respond to evolving governmental policies, our business operations could be negatively affected, which could have a further adverse effect on our results of operations. Further, due to the size, scope, and geographically dispersed nature of our operations, the expenses we incur to protect the health and safety of our team members and customers may be higher than similar expenses incurred by companies in other industries. To the extent a widespread outbreak of an illness or any other communicable disease or public health crisis adversely affects our business and financial results, it may also have the effect of heightening many other risks described in this section, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Such risks include, but are not limited to, additional changes in the state of the global economy and international trade policies and relations; our ability to execute our DRIVE transformation, implement our business strategy, and effectively respond to changes in market dynamics and customer preferences; our strong reputation and the value of the FedEx brand; our ability to meet our labor and purchased transportation needs while controlling related costs; our ability to achieve our goal of carbon neutrality for our global operations by calendar 2040; and the effect of litigation or claims from customers, team members, suppliers, regulators, or other third parties relating to the crisis or our actions in response. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors” and “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition” of our Annual Reports on Form 10-K for the years ended May 31, 2020, May 31, 2021, May 31, 2022, and May 31, 2023 for information regarding the COVID-19 pandemic and its effects on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Strategic Risks Failure to successfully implement our business strategy and effectively respond to changes in market dynamics and customer preferences will cause our future financial results to suffer. We are making significant investments and other decisions in connection with our long-term business strategy, such as those related to our DRIVE transformation, including Network 2.0. See “The failure to successfully execute our DRIVE transformation, including Network 2.0, in the expected time frame and at the expected cost may adversely affect our future results.” above and “Item 1. Business” and “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition” of this Annual Report for additional information. Such initiatives and enhancements may require us to make significant capital expenditures or incur significant expenses. We have also incurred, and may continue to incur, increased operating expenses in connection with certain changes to our business strategy. We may not be able to derive the expected operational efficiencies and network flexibility, alignment of our cost base with demand, cost - 29 - savings and reductions to our permanent cost structure, and other benefits from our strategic investments and other decisions. For example, in June 2024 we announced a workforce reduction plan in Europe. The execution of the plan is subject to a consultation process that is expected to occur over an 18-month period in accordance with local country processes and regulations. The actual amount and timing of business optimization costs and related cost savings resulting from the workforce reduction plan are dependent on local country consultation processes and regulations and negotiated social plans and may differ from our current expectations and estimates. If we are not able to successfully implement this plan, our future financial results may suffer. Further, in developing our business strategy, we make certain assumptions including, but not limited to, those related to customer demand and the mix of services to be purchased by our customers, the future rate of e-commerce growth and inventory restocking, passenger airline cargo capacity, competition, and the global economy, and actual market, economic, and other conditions may be different from our assumptions. As technology (including artificial intelligence and machine learning), customer behavior, and market conditions continue to evolve, it is important that we maintain the relevance of our brand and service offerings to our customers. If we are not able to successfully implement our business strategy and effectively respond to changes in technology, customer preferences, and market dynamics, our future financial results will suffer. For additional discussion, see “Item 1. Business” of this Annual Report under the caption “Strategy.” Our ongoing assessment of the role of FedEx Freight in our portfolio structure may not result in any consummated transaction or other outcome and could adversely affect our business, and there is no guarantee that any transaction resulting from the assessment will ultimately benefit our stockholders. In June 2024, we announced that FedEx’s management and Board of Directors are conducting an assessment of the role of FedEx Freight in the company’s portfolio structure. There is no assurance that the assessment will result in the approval or completion of any specific transaction or other outcome. The assessment could be costly and time-consuming; a significant distraction for our Board of Directors, management, and employees; and divert the attention of our Board of Directors and senior management from the pursuit of our business strategy and long-term planning. Additionally, perceived uncertainties as to our future direction, our ability to execute on our strategy, or the composition of our senior management team may lead to the perception of a change in the direction of our business, instability or lack of continuity which may be exploited by our competitors, result in the loss of potential business opportunities and current or potential customers, or make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified employee talent. Our business, results of operations, or financial condition could be harmed by any of these factors or the assessment and its ultimate outcome, among other things. Any potential transaction or other outcome would be dependent on a number of factors that may be beyond our control including, among other things, market conditions, industry trends, regulatory approvals, and the availability of financing on favorable terms. There can be no assurance that any potential transaction or other outcome would be successfully implemented, achieve the intended benefits, or provide greater value to our stockholders than that reflected in the current price of our common stock. In addition, the market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuation or otherwise be adversely affected by the uncertainties described above. We depend on our strong reputation and the value of the FedEx brand. FedEx is one of the most widely recognized, trusted, and respected brands in the world, and the FedEx brand is one of our most important and valuable assets. The FedEx brand name symbolizes high-quality service, reliability, and speed. In addition, we have a strong reputation among customers, team members, and the general public for high standards of social and environmental responsibility and corporate governance and ethics. The FedEx brand name and our corporate reputation are powerful sales, marketing, and recruitment tools, and we devote significant resources to promoting and protecting them. Adverse publicity (whether or not justified) relating to activities by our team members or others with whom we do business, such as customer service mishaps, accidents, catastrophes, or incidents involving aircraft, vehicles, or facilities operated by us or our service providers; low safety or service levels; data breaches or technology infrastructure disruptions; utilization of emerging technologies such as artificial intelligence; noncompliance with laws and allegations or claims that result in litigation; the shipment of certain items pursuant to our obligation as a common carrier operating under federal law; labor relations and workforce reductions; our advertising campaigns, sponsorship arrangements, or marketing programs; our ESG goals and related progress; our political activities and expenditures; or our executive compensation practices could tarnish our reputation and reduce the value of our brand and goodwill. With the increase in the use of artificial intelligence and social media outlets such as Facebook, YouTube, Instagram, X (formerly Twitter), TikTok, and other platforms, adverse publicity, whether warranted or not, can be disseminated quickly and broadly without context, making it increasingly difficult for us to effectively respond. Certain forms of technology such as artificial intelligence also allow users to alter images, videos, and other information relating to FedEx and present the information in a false or misleading manner. Further, our actual or perceived position, lack of position, or perceived lack of transparency on environmental, social, political, public policy, labor relations, or other sensitive issues could harm our reputation with certain groups, including our customers, stockholders, team members, advocacy groups, government representatives, and regulatory bodies. Expectations regarding these matters continue to evolve and are not uniform. Damage to our reputation and loss of brand equity could reduce demand for our services and/or create difficulties in retaining and recruiting employee talent, and thus have an adverse effect on our financial - 30 - condition and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation and restore the value of our brand and goodwill. We face intense competition. The transportation and business services markets are both highly competitive and sensitive to price and service, especially in periods of little or no macroeconomic growth. Some of our competitors have more financial resources and competitive advantages than we do, appear willing to operate at little or no margin to gain market share, or they are owned, controlled, or subsidized by foreign governments, which enables them to raise capital more easily. We also compete with regional transportation providers that operate smaller and less capital-intensive transportation networks and startup companies that combine technology with flexible labor solutions such as crowdsourcing to focus on local market needs. In addition, some high-volume package shippers are developing and implementing in-house delivery capabilities and utilizing independent contractors for deliveries, which could in turn adversely affect our results of operations. For example, Amazon.com has established a network of hubs, aircraft, and vehicles and has expressed an intention to offer its internal delivery capabilities broadly to third parties. See “Item 1. Business” of this Annual Report for additional information. We believe we compete effectively with these companies — for example, by providing more reliable service at compensatory prices. However, the existence of an irrational pricing environment could limit our ability to maintain or increase our prices (including our fuel surcharges in response to rising fuel costs), which could adversely affect our results of operations. While we believe we compete effectively through our current and planned service offerings, if our current competitors or potential future competitors offer a broader range of services or better service levels, more effectively bundle their services, or offer services at lower prices, it could adversely affect our results of operations. Continued transportation industry consolidation may further increase competition. Moreover, if high-volume package shippers further develop or expand internal capabilities for the services we provide, it may reduce our revenue and could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. These effects could be exacerbated if high-volume package shippers offer such capabilities to third parties. News regarding such developments or expansions could also negatively affect the price of our common stock. Our industry may be affected by changes in technology and our competitors may implement emerging technologies, including artificial intelligence applications, more quickly and more successfully than us, which could impair our ability to compete effectively and adversely affect our results of operations. Advancements in technology, such as advanced safety systems; automated package sorting, handling, and delivery; autonomous delivery; third-party supply chain insight and management; artificial intelligence; vehicle platooning; alternative fuel vehicles; and digitization of freight services, may necessitate that we increase investments in order to remain competitive, and our customers may not be willing to accept higher rates to cover the cost of these investments. See “We may be unable to achieve or demonstrate progress on our goal of carbon neutrality for our global operations by calendar 2040.” below for additional information. Our businesses are capital intensive, and we must make capital decisions based upon projected volume levels. We make significant investments in aircraft, package handling facilities, vehicles, technology, sort equipment, acquired companies, and other assets to support our transportation and business networks. The amount and timing of capital investments depend on various factors, including our anticipated volume growth. We must make commitments to purchase or modify aircraft years before the aircraft are actually needed. We must predict volume levels and fleet requirements and make commitments for aircraft based on those projections. Missing our projections could result in too much or too little capacity relative to our shipping volumes. Overcapacity could lead to below-market asset dispositions or write-downs, as well as negatively affect operating margins, and undercapacity could negatively affect service levels. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition — Results of Operations and Outlook — Consolidated Results — Goodwill and Other Asset Impairment Charges” of this Annual Report for information regarding the noncash impairment charges recorded in 2024 and 2023 in connection with our decision to permanently retire certain aircraft and related engines from service. Our inability to execute and effectively operate, integrate, leverage, and grow acquired businesses and realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions, joint ventures, and strategic alliances and investments could materially adversely affect us. Our strategy for long-term growth, productivity, and profitability depends in part on our ability to make prudent strategic acquisitions and investments, form joint ventures or strategic alliances, and realize the expected benefits from these transactions. We regularly acquire businesses, enter into strategic alliances, and make investments across the more than 220 countries and territories in which we provide services. Acquisitions and other strategic transactions involve special commercial, customer, accounting, regulatory, compliance, information technology, human resources, cultural, and other risks, including the potential assumption of unanticipated liabilities and contingencies. Additionally, we may be required to make significant capital expenditures and/or incur certain operating expenses following the completion of certain transactions, which may be higher than initially expected. For example, existing and future customer data and processes in the systems of FedEx and ShopRunner may require significant added expense to integrate. - 31 - While we expect our past and future acquisitions and strategic transactions to enhance our value proposition to customers and improve our business and long-term profitability, there can be no assurance that we will realize our expectations within the time frame we have established, if at all, or that we can continue to support the value we allocate to acquired businesses, including their goodwill or other intangible assets. We have previously incurred goodwill impairment charges related to certain of our acquisitions, some of which have been material, and may incur additional goodwill impairment charges in the future. Human Resource Management Risks Labor-related disruptions and potential changes in labor laws may adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our business is labor intensive in nature, utilizing large numbers of numerous classes of employees and service providers. Despite continual organizing attempts by labor unions, other than our pilots, our employees in the U.S. and Canada have chosen not to unionize (we acquired FedEx Supply Chain in 2015, which already had a small number of unionized employees). Additionally, certain of our employees outside of the U.S. and Canada are unionized. For information regarding our continued bargaining efforts to reach an agreement with the union representing our pilots, see “Item 1. Business” of this Annual Report under the caption “Federal Express Segment — Employees.” If we are unable to reach an agreement with any of our unionized work groups in future negotiations regarding the terms of their collective bargaining agreements, or if additional groups within our workforce become unionized, we may be subject to work interruptions or stoppages, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Labor unions have recently attempted to organize employees at businesses and in industries that have not traditionally been unionized, and in certain instances have been successful. Such attempts could continue in 2025. Additionally, the U.S. Congress has, in the past, considered adopting changes in labor laws that would make it easier for unions to organize units of our employees. For example, there is always a possibility that legislative or administrative actions, or judicial decisions, could attempt to remove Federal Express employees from the jurisdiction of the RLA. Additionally, this jurisdiction could be challenged in connection with our recently completed one FedEx consolidation and ongoing Network 2.0 transformation. For additional discussion of the RLA, see “Item 1. Business” of this Annual Report under the caption “Regulation.” Such legislation or challenge could expose our customers to the type of service disruptions that the RLA was designed to prevent — local work stoppages in key areas that interrupt the timely flow of shipments of time-sensitive, high-value goods throughout our global network. Such disruptions could threaten our ability to provide competitively priced shipping options and ready access to global markets. There is also the possibility that Congress could pass other labor legislation that could adversely affect our operations with employees governed by the NLRA. In addition, the NMB and the NLRB have and may continue to take actions that could make it easier for our employees, as well as vendor, service provider, and supplier workforces, to organize under the RLA or NLRA. Finally, changes to federal or state laws, regulations, rules, judicial or administrative precedent, or guidance governing employee classification could affect the status of service providers as independent employers of drivers. If we are deemed to be an employer or joint employer of the drivers of these service providers, labor organizations could more easily organize these individuals, our operating costs could increase materially, and we could incur significant capital outlays and experience adverse effects to service levels. Our failure to attract and retain employee talent, meet our purchased transportation needs, or maintain our company culture, as well as increases in labor and purchased transportation costs, could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our success depends upon the efforts and abilities of our high-quality employees, many of whom are longstanding FedEx team members. Difficulties in motivating, rewarding, recruiting, and retaining employee talent, including members of senior management and successors to members of senior management; the unexpected loss of such individuals resulting in the depletion of our institutional knowledge base; and/or our inability to successfully transition key roles could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, reputation, and the price of our common stock. We also regularly seek to hire a large number of part-time and seasonal workers, and utilize contracted service providers to conduct certain linehaul and pickup-and-delivery operations. Certain positions at FedEx have historically experienced high turnover rates, which can lead to increased recruiting, training, and retention costs. Additionally, our company culture is important to providing high-quality customer service and having a productive workforce and could be adversely affected by our evolving operations and other factors. If we fail to maintain the strength of our company culture, our competitive ability and our business may be harmed. Our business is labor intensive, and our ability to meet our labor and purchased transportation needs while controlling related costs is generally subject to numerous external factors, including the availability of qualified service providers and persons in the markets where we and our contracted service providers operate and unemployment levels within these markets, prevailing and competitive wage rates and other benefits, health and other insurance costs, inflation, fuel and energy prices and availability, behavioral changes, adoption of new or revised employment and labor laws and regulations (including increased minimum wage requirements) or government programs, safety, and security levels of our operations, our reputation within the labor and transportation markets, changes in the business or financial soundness of service providers, interest in contracting with FedEx, and the effect of a widespread - 32 - public health crisis. Additionally, certain service providers (acting collectively or in coordination in some instances) may seek to increase financial rates or modify contract terms and may refuse to provide service to FedEx. Our inability to effectively meet our labor and purchased transportation needs can increase our costs, hinder our ability to execute our business strategy, negatively affect service levels, and adversely affect our business and results of operations. Certain of these risks may be heightened by our DRIVE transformation, including Network 2.0. We contract with service providers to conduct certain linehaul and pickup-and-delivery operations, and the status of these service providers as direct and exclusive employers of drivers providing these services is being challenged. We are defending joint-employer cases where it is alleged that we should be treated as an employer or joint employer of the drivers employed by service providers with whom we contract to conduct certain linehaul and pickup-and-delivery operations. We incur certain costs, including legal fees, in defending the status of service providers as direct and exclusive employers of their drivers. We continue to believe that we are not an employer or joint employer of the drivers of these independent businesses. However, adverse determinations in these matters or regulatory developments could, among other things, entitle service providers’ drivers to certain wage payments and penalties from the service providers and FedEx, and result in employment and withholding tax and benefit liability for FedEx. The status of the drivers employed by these service providers could be further challenged in connection with Network 2.0. Potential changes to pilot flight and duty time regulations could impair our operations and impose substantial costs on us . In 2010, the FAA proposed regulations that would change the flight and duty time rules applicable to all-cargo air carriers. When the FAA issued final regulations in 2011 (the “2011 regulations”), all-cargo carriers, including FedEx, were exempt from these new requirements. Instead, all-cargo carriers were required to continue complying with previously enacted flight and duty time rules and allowed to pursue the development of fatigue risk management systems to develop fatigue mitigations unique to each operation. In 2012, the FAA reaffirmed the exclusion of all-cargo carriers from the 2011 regulations, and litigation in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia affirmed the FAA’s decision. However, this issue remains a policy priority for certain labor groups, and the U.S. Congress periodically considers legislation that, if adopted, would require all-cargo carriers to comply with the 2011 regulations. Required compliance with the 2011 regulations would make it more difficult to avoid pilot fatigue and could impose substantial costs on us in order to maintain operational reliability. Increasing costs, the volatility of costs and funding requirements, and other legal mandates for employee benefits, especially pension and healthcare benefits, could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. We sponsor programs that provide retirement benefits to most of our employees. These programs include defined benefit pension plans, defined contribution plans, and postretirement healthcare plans. The costs of providing pension and other retirement benefit plans are dependent on numerous assumptions, such as discount rates, expected long-term investment returns on plan assets, future salary increases, employee turnover, mortality, and retirement ages. Changes in actuarial assumptions and differences between the assumptions and actual values, as well as significant declines in the value of investments that fund our pension and other postretirement plans, if not offset or mitigated by a decline in plan liabilities, could increase pension and other postretirement expense, and we could be required from time to time to fund the pension plans with significant amounts of cash. Such cash funding obligations could adversely affect our results of operations and liquidity. Additionally, the rules for pension and retirement benefit plan accounting are complex, involve numerous assumptions, and can produce volatility in our results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity. For example, our fourth quarter 2024 mark-to-market (“MTM”) retirement plans accounting adjustment resulted in a pre-tax, noncash MTM gain of $561 million ($426 million, net of tax, or $1.69 per diluted share), and in 2023 we recognized a pre-tax, noncash MTM gain of $650 million ($493 million, net of tax, or $1.92 per diluted share). For additional information on our MTM retirement plans accounting adjustments, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition — Results of Operations and Outlook — Consolidated Results — Retirement Plans MTM Adjustments” and Note 13 of the consolidated financial statements included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Annual Report. Environmental, Climate, and Weather Risks We may be affected by global climate change or by legal, regulatory, or market responses to such change. Concern over climate change, including the effect of global warming, has led to significant U.S. and international legislative and regulatory efforts to limit GHG emissions, including our aircraft and vehicle engine emissions. Increasingly, state and local governments are also considering environmental-related regulatory and reporting requirements. Compliance with such regulation and the associated potential cost is complicated by the fact that various countries and regions are following different approaches to the regulation and reporting of climate change and other environmental matters. Increased regulation and reporting obligations regarding GHG emissions, especially aircraft or vehicle engine emissions, could impose substantial taxes, fees, and other costs on us. These include an increase in the cost of the fuel and other energy we purchase, investments required to obtain electricity capacity, and capital and impairment costs associated with updating or replacing our aircraft, vehicles, or infrastructure prematurely. Until the timing, scope, and extent of such possible regulation becomes known, we cannot predict its effect on our cost structure or our operating results. It is reasonably possible, however, that it could materially increase our operating expenses and have an adverse direct or indirect effect on our business, if - 33 - instituted. For additional discussion of regulatory responses to climate change, including CORSIA and the Paris climate accord, see “Item 1. Business” of this Annual Report under the caption “Regulation.” We may also incur additional expenses as a result of U.S. and international regulators requiring additional disclosures regarding GHG emissions and other environmental matters including, but not limited to, the European Sustainability Reporting Standards and Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive and the final rules adopted by the SEC in March 2024. Furthermore, many countries and U.S. states in which we operate or are subject to regulation have adopted, or are expected to adopt, additional requirements related to the disclosure of GHG emission and related matters. In many cases these requirements differ and may conflict from country to country, increasing our costs or requiring significant management time and attention. Additionally, we could be subject to climate litigation or regulatory enforcement actions, as groups, individuals, and governmental authorities affected by climate change seek to recover climate-related damages from entities they perceive as being partially responsible for human-induced climate change because of the emission of GHGs from their operations. Moreover, even without such regulation, increased awareness and any adverse publicity in the global marketplace about the GHGs emitted by companies in the airline and transportation industries could harm our reputation, reduce customer demand for our services, especially our air express services, and increase our liability. Finally, given the broad and global scope of our operations and our susceptibility to global macroeconomic trends, we are particularly vulnerable to the physical risks of climate change that could affect all of humankind, such as shifts in weather patterns and world ecosystems. We may be unable to achieve or demonstrate progress on our goal of carbon neutrality for our global operations by calendar 2040. In 2021, we announced a goal to achieve carbon neutrality for our global operations by calendar 2040. Achievement of this goal depends on our execution of operational strategies relating to vehicle electrification; sustainable fuel procurement; fuel conservation and aircraft modernization; facilities; sustainable customer solutions; and potentially voluntary carbon offset credits. Execution of these strategies, as well as demonstrable progress on and achievement of our calendar 2040 goal, is subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside of our control. See “The Environment” under “Item 1. Business” of this Annual Report for information on our review of our previously disclosed Federal Express pickup-and-delivery purchase goals. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to: our ability to successfully implement our business strategy, effectively respond to changes in market dynamics and achieve the anticipated benefits and associated cost savings of such strategies and actions; the availability and cost of, and our ability to acquire, alternative fuel vehicles, alternative fuels, fuel-efficient aircraft, global electrical charging infrastructure and requisite power grid capacity, off-site renewable energy, and other materials and components, many of which are not presently in existence or available at scale to meet the required global and regulatory demand creating intense competition that may significantly increase the costs; unforeseen production, design, operational, and technological difficulties; the outcome of research efforts and future technology developments, including the ability to scale projects and technologies on a commercially competitive basis such as carbon sequestration and/or other related processes; compliance with, and changes or additions to, global and regional regulations, taxes, charges, mandates, or requirements relating to GHG emissions, carbon costs, or climate-related goals; labor-related regulations and requirements that restrict or prohibit our ability to impose requirements on third parties who provide contracted transportation for our transportation networks; the availability of incentives to enhance the production and affordability of alternative fuel vehicles, alternative fuels, global electrical charging infrastructure and requisite power grid capacity, and other materials and components; adapting products to customer preferences and customer acceptance of sustainable supply chain solutions and potentially increased prices for our services; and the actions of competitors and competitive pressures. Purchase of carbon offset credits to meet our 2040 carbon neutrality goal could add significant fluctuating annualized costs due to the uncertain price of carbon and any voluntary or regulatory schemes to offset emissions, lead to increased regulatory attention, and inhibit the development of other carbon reduction approaches that we may otherwise pursue. There also is a risk that any voluntary carbon offset credits purchased, even if accepted by regulators, could be viewed by third parties as not sufficiently reflecting real, verifiable, and additional GHG reductions, leading to reputational harm. There is no assurance that we will be able to successfully execute our strategies and achieve or demonstrate progress on our calendar 2040 goal of carbon neutrality for our global operations. Additionally, we may determine that it is in our best interests to prioritize other business, social, governance, or sustainable investments and/or initiatives (such as our DRIVE transformation program, including Network 2.0) over the achievement of our calendar 2040 goal based on economic, regulatory, or social factors, business strategy, or other reasons. Failure to achieve or demonstrate progress on our calendar 2040 goal could damage our reputation and customer and other stakeholder relationships. Further, given investors’ and other stakeholders’ increased focus related to ESG matters, such a failure could cause large stockholders to reduce their ownership of FedEx common stock and limit our access to financing. Such conditions could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition, as well as on the price of our common stock. Our inability to quickly and effectively restore operations following adverse weather or a localized disaster or disturbance in a key geography could adversely affect our business and results of operations. While we operate several integrated networks with assets - 34 - distributed throughout the world, there are concentrations of key assets within our networks that are exposed to adverse weather conditions or localized risks from natural or manmade disasters such as earthquakes, volcanoes, wildfires, hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, severe winter weather, heat waves, extended droughts, conflicts or unrest, terrorist attacks, or other disturbances, actual or threatened. Additionally, shifts in weather patterns caused by climate change could increase the frequency, severity, or duration of certain adverse weather conditions. We may experience reduced availability and/or increases in the cost of insurance due to such changes. Prolonged interruptions or disruptions at a key location such as our FedEx Memphis World Hub or one of our information-technology centers could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We also may incur significant costs to reestablish or relocate these functions. Moreover, resulting economic dislocations, including supply chain and fuel disruptions, could adversely affect demand for our services resulting in an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Other Legal, Regulatory, and Miscellaneous Risks Government regulation and enforcement are evolving and unfavorable changes could harm our business. We are subject to regulation under a wide variety of U.S. federal, state, and local and non-U.S. government regulations, laws, policies, and actions. There can be no assurance that such regulations, laws, policies, and actions will not be changed in ways that will decrease the demand for our services, subject us to escalating costs, or require us to modify our business models and objectives (such as our DRIVE transformation program, including Network 2.0), harming our financial results. In particular, legislative, regulatory, or other actions that U.S. and non-U.S. governments have undertaken or could take in areas such as data privacy and sovereignty, the use of artificial intelligence and other emerging technologies, taxes, foreign exchange intervention in response to currency volatility, currency controls that could restrict the movement of liquidity from particular jurisdictions, trade controls, tariffs, quotas, embargoes, or sanctions in the U.S. or other countries, complex economic sanctions, import and export controls, customs standards, additional security or workplace and transportation health and safety requirements, labor and employment standards (including with respect to our pilots), worker classification, joint employment and benefits, government contracting, antitrust, regulated commodities, environmental, climate-related, or emission standards, and accounting may have an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, capital requirements, effective tax rate, and service levels. Furthermore, some of our operations are in high-risk legal compliance environments, and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the “FCPA”), similar anti-bribery laws in non-U.S. jurisdictions, and other compliance-related laws or regulations could result in litigation, assessment of damages, imposition of penalties, or other consequences. For additional discussion, see “Item 1. Business” of this Annual Report under the caption “Regulation.” Additionally, in light of the recently held and upcoming elections in the U.S. and various international jurisdictions, there is considerable uncertainty regarding reforms of various aspects of existing laws, regulations, and enforcement priorities and strategies that could affect trade policies, labor matters, taxes, and technological advancements, among other areas, and have a material effect on our business and results of operations, as well as on the price of our common stock. We could be subject to adverse changes in regulations and interpretations or challenges to our tax positions. We are subject to taxation in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. From time to time, changes in tax laws or regulations may be enacted that could significantly affect our overall tax liabilities and our effective tax rate. U.S. and foreign governmental agencies maintain focus on the taxation of multinational companies, including statutory tax rates, digital taxes, global minimum taxes (such as the framework agreed to by members of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development), and transactions between affiliated companies. Such changes may require new and complex computations to be performed, significant judgments, estimates, and calculations to be made, and the preparation and analysis of information not previously relevant or regularly produced. Standard-setting bodies could interpret or issue guidance on how provisions of certain tax laws and regulations will be applied or otherwise administered that is different from our interpretation, and we may be required to make adjustments to amounts that we have recorded that may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition—Results of Operations and Outlook—Consolidated Results—Income Taxes” of this Annual Report for additional information regarding ongoing tax examinations and challenges. Additionally, see “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition—Critical Accounting Estimates—Income Taxes” of this Annual Report for information regarding estimates and potential adjustments related to our tax positions. Our business is subject to complex and evolving U.S. and foreign laws and regulations regarding data protection. There has recently been heightened regulatory and enforcement focus relating to the collection, use, retention, transfer, and processing of personal data in the U.S. (at both the state and federal level) and internationally, including the EU’s General Data Protection Regulation, the California Privacy Rights Act, the Virginia Consumer Data Protection Act, and other similar laws that have been or will be enacted by other jurisdictions. In addition, in the U.S. and internationally, there has been increased legislative and regulatory activity related to artificial intelligence and the risks and challenges artificial intelligence poses, including the European Union’s Artificial Intelligence Act and the current U.S. presidential administration’s executive order to, among other things, establish artificial intelligence safety and security. Also, China and certain other jurisdictions have enacted more stringent data localization requirements. An actual or alleged failure to comply with applicable U.S. or foreign data protection laws, regulations, or other data protection standards may expose us to litigation (including, in some instances, class action litigation), fines, sanctions, or other penalties, which - 35 - could harm our reputation and adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. This regulatory environment is increasingly challenging, based on discretionary factors, and difficult to predict. Consequently, compliance with all applicable regulations in the various jurisdictions in which we do business may present material obligations and risks to our business, including significantly expanded compliance burdens, costs, and enforcement risks; require us to make extensive system or operational changes; or adversely affect the cost or attractiveness of the services we offer. All of these evolving compliance and operational requirements, as well as the uncertain interpretation and enforcement of laws, impose significant costs and regulatory risks that are likely to increase over time. Developing privacy legislation within the U.S. may also create limitations or added requirements on the use of personal data by FedEx Dataworks and the other FedEx operating companies. The regulatory environment for global aviation or other transportation rights may affect our operations and increase our operating costs. Our extensive air network is critical to our success. Our right to serve foreign points is subject to the approval of the DOT and generally requires a bilateral agreement between the U.S. and foreign governments. In addition, we must obtain the permission of foreign governments to provide specific flights and services. Our operations outside of the U.S., such as FedEx’s international domestic operations, are also subject to current and potential regulations, including certain postal regulations and licensing requirements, that restrict, make difficult, and sometimes prohibit, the ability of foreign-owned companies such as FedEx to compete effectively in parts of the international domestic transportation and logistics market. Regulatory or executive actions affecting global aviation or transportation rights or a failure to obtain or maintain aviation or other transportation rights in important international markets could impair our ability to operate our networks. Further, our ability to obtain or maintain aviation or other transportation rights internationally may be adversely affected by changes in international trade policies and relations. We are subject to other extensive regulatory and legal compliance requirements that may result in significant costs. For instance, the FAA from time-to-time issues directives and other regulations relating to the maintenance and operation of aircraft that require significant expenditures in order to comply. High-profile accidents, catastrophes, or incidents involving aircraft may trigger increased regulatory and legal compliance requirements. These requirements can be issued with little or no notice, or can otherwise affect our ability to efficiently or fully utilize our aircraft, and in some instances have resulted in the temporary grounding of aircraft types altogether. Further, our business may be adversely affected when government agencies and air traffic control and other systems they oversee cease to operate as expected, including due to partial shutdowns, sequestrations, or similar events. Lapses in government operations may result in, among other things, disruptions in the ability of government agencies to grant required regulatory approvals. For additional discussion, see “Item 1. Business” of this Annual Report under the caption “Regulation.” We are also subject to other risks and uncertainties, including: •   our ability to mitigate the technological, operational, legal and regulatory, and reputational risks related to autonomous technology and artificial intelligence; •     the increasing costs of compliance with federal, state, and foreign governmental agency mandates (including the FCPA and the U.K. Bribery Act) and defending against inappropriate or unjustified enforcement or other actions by such agencies; •     changes in foreign currency exchange rates, especially in the euro, Chinese yuan, British pound, Canadian dollar, Australian dollar, Mexican peso, Hong Kong dollar, and Japanese yen, which can affect our sales levels and foreign currency sales prices; •     loss or delay in the collection of accounts receivable; •     any liability resulting from and the costs of defending against class-action, derivative, and other litigation, such as wage-and-hour, joint employment, securities, vehicle accident, and discrimination and retaliation claims, claims related to our reporting and disclosure of climate change and other ESG topics, and any other legal or governmental proceedings, including the matters discussed in Note 20 of the consolidated financial statements included in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Annual Report; •     adverse rulings on appeals and in other future judicial decisions, subsequent adverse jury findings, and changes in judicial precedent; •     the sufficiency of insurance coverage we purchase; •     the effect of technology developments (including artificial intelligence and machine learning) on our operations and on demand for our services, and our ability to continue to identify and eliminate unnecessary information-technology redundancy and complexity throughout the organization; •     disruptions in global supply chains, which can limit the access of FedEx and our service providers to vehicles and other key capital resources and increase our costs; - 36 - •     difficulties experienced by the companies with which we contract to fly smaller regional “feeder” aircraft in attracting and retaining pilots, which could cause a reduction of service offered to certain locations, service disruptions, increased costs of operations, and other difficulties; •     governmental underinvestment in transportation infrastructure, which could increase our costs and adversely affect our service levels due to traffic congestion, prolonged closure of key thoroughfares, or sub-optimal routing of our vehicles and aircraft; •     stockholder activism, which could divert the attention of management and our Board of Directors from our business, hinder execution of our business strategy, give rise to perceived uncertainties as to our future, and cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly; •     successful completion of our planned stock repurchases; and •    constraints, volatility, or disruption in the capital markets, our ability to maintain our current credit ratings, commercial paper ratings, and senior unsecured debt and pass-through certificate credit ratings, and our ability to meet credit agreement financial covenants.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

ORGANIZATION OF INFORMATION This Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (“MD&A”) of FedEx Corporation (“FedEx”) is composed of three major sections: Results of Operations and Outlook, Financial Condition, and Critical Accounting Estimates. These sections include the following information: • Results of operations includes an overview of our consolidated 2024 results compared to 2023 results. This section also includes a discussion of key actions and events that impacted our results. Discussion and analysis of 2022 results and year-over-year comparisons between 2023 results and 2022 results can be found in “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition” of our Annual Report on Form 10-K (“Annual Report”) for the year ended May 31, 2023. • The overview is followed by a discussion of both historical operating results for our business segments in place during 2024 and 2023 and our outlook for 2025, as well as a financial summary and analysis for each of our transportation segments in place during 2024 and 2023. • Our financial condition is reviewed through an analysis of key elements of our liquidity and capital resources, financial commitments, and liquidity outlook for 2025. • Critical accounting estimates discusses those financial statement elements that we believe are most important to understanding the material judgments and assumptions incorporated in our financial results. The discussion in MD&A should be read in conjunction with the other sections of this Annual Report, particularly “Item 1. Business,” “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” and “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS SEGMENTS We provide a broad portfolio of transportation, e-commerce, and business services, offering integrated business solutions utilizing our flexible, efficient, and intelligent global network. During 2024 and 2023, our primary operating companies were Federal Express Corporation (“FedEx Express”), the world’s largest express transportation company; FedEx Ground Package System, Inc. (“FedEx Ground”), a leading North American provider of small-package ground delivery services; and FedEx Freight Corporation and its less-than-truckload (“LTL”) operating subsidiary FedEx Freight, Inc. (“FedEx Freight”), a leading North American provider of LTL freight transportation services. For these periods, those companies represented our major service lines and, along with FedEx Corporate Services, Inc. (“FedEx Services”), constituted our reportable segments. Our FedEx Services segment provided sales, marketing, information technology, communications, customer service, technical support, billing and collection services, and certain back-office functions that supported our operating segments. The operating costs of the FedEx Services segment were allocated to the business units it served during 2024 and 2023. This MD&A is based on our segment reporting that was in effect during 2024 and 2023. In connection with our one FedEx consolidation, on June 1, 2024, FedEx Ground and FedEx Services were merged into Federal Express Corporation (“Federal Express”), becoming a single company operating a unified, fully integrated air-ground express network under the respected FedEx brand. FedEx Freight continues to provide LTL freight transportation services as a separate subsidiary. Beginning in the first quarter of 2025, Federal Express and FedEx Freight represent our major service lines and constitute our reportable segments. Additionally, the results of FedEx Custom Critical, Inc. (“FedEx Custom Critical”) will be included in the FedEx Freight segment instead of the Federal Express segment in 2025. Prior-year amounts will be revised to reflect this presentation. See “Reportable Segments” below and “Item 1. Business” for additional information. The key indicators necessary to understand our operating results include: • the overall customer demand for our various services based on macroeconomic factors and the global economy; • the volumes of transportation services provided through our networks, primarily measured by our average daily volume and shipment weight and size; • the mix of services purchased by our customers; • the prices we obtain for our services, primarily measured by yield (revenue per package or pound or revenue per shipment or hundredweight for LTL freight shipments); • our ability to manage our cost structure (capital expenditures and operating expenses) to match shifting volume levels; and - 46 - • the timing and amount of fluctuations in fuel prices and our ability to recover incremental fuel costs through our fuel surcharges. Trends Affecting Our Business The following trends significantly affect the indicators discussed above, as well as our business and operating results. See the risk factors identified under Part I, Item 1A. “Risk Factors” for more information. Additionally, see “Results of Operations and Outlook – Consolidated Results – Business Optimization and Realignment Costs and – Outlook” and “Results of Operations and Outlook – Financial Condition – Liquidity Outlook” below for additional information on efforts we are taking to mitigate adverse trends. Macroeconomic Conditions While macroeconomic risks apply to most companies, we are particularly vulnerable. The transportation industry is highly cyclical and especially susceptible to trends in economic activity. Our primary business is to transport goods, so our business levels are directly tied to the purchase and production of goods and the rate of global trade growth. The decline in U.S. imports of consumer goods that started in late 2022, along with slowed global industrial production, has contributed to weakened economic conditions for the transportation industry. Consequently, this environment has led to lower freight and package volumes at FedEx Express and FedEx Freight, negatively affecting our results in 2024. Inflation and Interest Rates During 2024, global inflation decelerated year-over-year but continues to be above historical levels. Additionally, global interest rates remained elevated in an effort to curb inflation. We are experiencing a decline in demand for our transportation services as inflation and high interest rates are negatively affecting consumer and business spending. We expect inflation and high interest rates to continue to negatively affect our results in 2025. Fuel We must purchase large quantities of fuel to operate our aircraft and vehicles, and the price and availability of fuel is beyond our control and can be highly volatile. The timing and amount of fluctuations in fuel prices and our ability to recover incremental fuel costs through our fuel surcharges can significantly affect our operating results either positively or negatively in the short-term. Lower fuel prices negatively affected yields through lower fuel surcharges and drove a decrease in fuel expense during 2024 at all of our transportation segments. Geopolitical Conflicts Given the nature of our business and our global operations, geopolitical conflicts may adversely affect our business and results of operations. While we do not expect ongoing geopolitical conflicts between Russia and Ukraine and in the Middle East to have a direct material impact on our business or results of operations, the broader consequences are adversely affecting the global economy and may also have the effect of heightening other risks disclosed under Part I, Item 1A. “Risk Factors.” RESULTS OF O PERATIONS AND OUTLOOK Many of our operating expenses are directly affected by revenue and volume levels, and we expect these operating expenses to fluctuate on a year-over-year basis consistent with changes in revenue and volumes. Therefore, the discussion of operating expense captions focuses on the key drivers and trends affecting expenses other than those factors strictly related to changes in revenue and volumes. The line item “Other operating expense” includes costs associated with outside service contracts (such as information technology services, facility services, temporary labor, and security), insurance, professional fees, and operational supplies. Except as otherwise specified, references to years indicate our fiscal year ended May 31, 2024 or ended May 31 of the year referenced, and comparisons are to the corresponding period of the prior year. References to our transportation segments include, collectively, the FedEx Express segment, the FedEx Ground segment, and the FedEx Freight segment. - 47 - CONSOLIDATED RESULTS The following table compares summary operating results (dollars in millions, except per share amounts) for the years ended May 31: The following table shows changes in revenue and operating results by reportable segment for 2024 compared to 2023 (in millions): (1) The following is a summary of the effects of the (costs) benefits of certain items affecting our financial results for the years ended May 31 (in millions): Overview Operating income improved in 2024 due to the execution of our DRIVE program initiatives and our continued focus on revenue quality, partially offset by reduced demand and lower fuel surcharges, driven by challenging macroeconomic conditions. Our DRIVE initiatives in 2024 included network rationalization through structural flight takedowns and route optimization, along with improvements in hub sort efficiency at FedEx Express, as well as continued benefits from increasing linehaul efficiencies and improving dock productivity at FedEx Ground. - 48 - Operating income in 2024 and 2023 includes $157 million ($120 million, net of tax, or $0.48 per diluted share) and $70 million ($54 million, net of tax, or $0.21 per diluted share), respectively, of asset impairment charges associated with the decision to permanently retire certain aircraft and related engines at FedEx Express. Operating income in 2023 also includes $47 million ($44 million, net of tax, or $0.17 per diluted share) of goodwill and other asset impairment charges associated with the ShopRunner, Inc. (“ShopRunner”) acquisition at FedEx Dataworks, Inc. (“FedEx Dataworks”). See the “Goodwill and Other Asset Impairment Charges” section of this MD&A for more information. Operating income in 2024 includes $582 million ($444 million, net of tax, or $1.77 per diluted share) of expenses associated with our DRIVE business optimization strategy announced in 2023. Operating income in 2023 includes $273 million ($209 million, net of tax, or $0.81 per diluted share) of expenses under this program, and also includes business realignment costs of $36 million ($27 million, net of tax, or $0.11 per diluted share) associated with our workforce reduction plan in Europe announced in 2021. See the “Business Optimization and Realignment Costs” section of this MD&A for more information. Operating income in 2024 includes a $57 million benefit ($44 million, net of tax, or $0.17 per diluted share) for insurance recoveries in connection with a FedEx Ground legal matter. Operating income in 2023 includes a $35 million charge ($26 million, net of tax, or $0.10 per diluted share) related to a separate FedEx Ground legal matter. These amounts are included in “Corporate, other, and eliminations.” Net income includes a pre-tax, noncash gain of $561 million in 2024 ($426 million, net of tax, or $1.69 per diluted share) and a gain of $650 million in 2023 ($493 million, net of tax, or $1.92 per diluted share) associated with our MTM retirement plans accounting adjustments. See the “Retirement Plans MTM Adjustments” section of this MD&A and Note 13 of the accompanying consolidated financial statements for more information. Net income in 2024 includes a $54 million ($0.21 per diluted share) tax expense related to the remeasurement of state deferred income taxes under the new one FedEx structure. Net income in 2023 includes a $46 million ($0.18 per diluted share) tax expense from a revaluation of certain foreign tax assets. See the “Income Taxes” section of this MD&A and Note 12 of the accompanying consolidated financial statements for more information. We completed an accelerated share repurchase (“ASR”) transaction with a bank during the fourth quarter of 2024 to repurchase $500 million of FedEx common stock. During 2024, we repurchased 9.8 million shares of our common stock under ASR agreements at an average price of $255.34 per share for a total of $2.5 billion. Share repurchases had a benefit of $0.34 per diluted share in 2024. As of July 15, 2024, $4.1 billion remained available to be used for repurchases under the stock repurchase program approved by our Board of Directors in March 2024. See Note 1 of the accompanying consolidated financial statements and the “Financial Condition—Liquidity” section of this MD&A for additional information on our stock repurchases. - 49 - The following graphs for FedEx Express, FedEx Ground, and FedEx Freight show selected volume trends (in thousands) for the years ended May 31: (1) International domestic average daily package volume relates to our international intra-country operations. International export average daily package volume relates to our international priority and economy services. (2) Ground commercial average daily volume is calculated on a 5-day-per-week basis, while home delivery and economy average daily package volumes are calculated on a 7-day-per-week basis. 2021 statistical information has been revised to conform to the current year presentation. (3) International average daily freight pounds relate to our international priority, economy, and airfreight services. - 50 - The following graphs for FedEx Express, FedEx Ground, and FedEx Freight show selected yield trends for the years ended May 31: (1) International export revenue per package relates to our international priority and economy services. International domestic revenue per package relates to our international intra-country operations. (2) International freight revenue per pound relates to our international priority, economy, and airfreight services. - 51 - Revenue Revenue decreased 3% in 2024 primarily due to lower fuel surcharges at all of our transportation segments, decreased volumes at FedEx Express and FedEx Freight, and reduced demand surcharges at FedEx Express, partially offset by base yield improvement at FedEx Ground and FedEx Freight. FedEx Express revenue decreased 4% in 2024 primarily due to volume declines, lower fuel surcharges, and reduced demand surcharges. Revenue at Corporate, other, and eliminations decreased in 2024 primarily due to lower yields and reduced volume at FedEx Logistics, Inc. (“FedEx Logistics”). FedEx Freight revenue decreased 6% in 2024 primarily due to lower shipments, weight per shipment, and fuel surcharges, partially offset by base yield improvement. FedEx Ground revenue increased 2% in 2024 primarily due to base yield improvement and higher volume, partially offset by lower fuel surcharges. Goodwill and Other Asset Impairment Charges In 2024, we made the decision to permanently retire from service 22 Boeing 757-200 aircraft and seven related engines to align with the plans of FedEx Express to modernize its aircraft fleet, improve its global network, and better align air network capacity to match current and anticipated shipment volumes. As a consequence of this decision, a noncash impairment charge of $157 million ($120 million, net of tax, or $0.48 per diluted share) was recorded in 2024. In 2023, we made the decision to permanently retire from service 12 Boeing MD-11F aircraft and 25 related engines, four Boeing 757-200 aircraft and one related engine, and two Airbus A300-600 aircraft and eight related engines for the same reasons stated above. As a consequence of this decision, a noncash impairment charge of $70 million ($54 million, net of tax, or $0.21 per diluted share) was recorded in 2023. In 2023, we also recorded a noncash impairment charge of $36 million ($36 million, net of tax, or $0.14 per diluted share) for all of the goodwill attributable to FedEx Dataworks. The key factors contributing to the goodwill impairment were underperformance of the ShopRunner business during 2023, including base business erosion, and the failure to attain the level of operating synergies and revenue and profit growth anticipated at the time of acquisition. We also recorded an $11 million ($8 million, net of tax, or $0.03 per diluted share) noncash intangible asset impairment charge related to the ShopRunner acquisition at FedEx Dataworks. For additional information regarding these impairment charges, see the “Critical Accounting Estimates” section of this MD&A and Note 4 of the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Business Optimization and Realignment Costs In the second quarter of 2023, FedEx announced DRIVE, a comprehensive program to improve the company’s long-term profitability. This program includes a business optimization plan to drive efficiency among our transportation segments, lower our overhead and support costs, and transform our digital capabilities. We have commenced our plan to consolidate our sortation facilities and equipment, reduce pickup-and-delivery routes, and optimize our enterprise linehaul network by moving beyond discrete collaboration to an end-to-end optimized network through Network 2.0, the multi-year effort to improve the efficiency with which FedEx picks up, transports, and delivers packages in the U.S. and Canada. In the fourth quarter of 2023, we announced one FedEx, a consolidation plan to bring FedEx Ground and FedEx Services into Federal Express Corporation, becoming a single company operating a unified, fully integrated air-ground express network under the respected FedEx brand. FedEx Freight continues to provide LTL freight transportation services as a separate subsidiary. The organizational redesign was implemented in phases with full legal implementation effective June 1, 2024. One FedEx will help facilitate our DRIVE transformation program to improve long-term profitability. FedEx is making progress with Network 2.0, as the company has implemented Network 2.0 optimization in more than 50 locations in the U.S. Contracted service providers will handle the pickup and delivery of packages in some locations while employee couriers will handle others. We incurred costs associated with our business optimization activities of $582 million ($444 million, net of tax, or $1.77 per diluted share) in 2024. These costs were primarily related to professional services and severance, and are included in Corporate, other, and eliminations, FedEx Express, and FedEx Ground. We incurred costs associated with our business optimization activities of $273 million ($209 million, net of tax, or $0.81 per diluted share) in 2023. These costs were primarily related to consulting services, severance, professional fees, and idling our operations in Russia, and are included in Corporate, other, and eliminations and FedEx Express. The identification of these costs as business optimization-related expenditures is subject to our disclosure controls and procedures. We expect the aggregate pre-tax cost of our business optimization activities to be approximately $1.5 billion through 2025. The timing and amount of our business optimization expenses may change as we revise and implement our plans. - 52 - In 2021, FedEx Express announced a workforce reduction plan in Europe related to the network integration of TNT Express. The plan affected approximately 5,000 employees in Europe across operational teams and back-office functions and was completed during 2023. We incurred costs of $36 million ($27 million, net of tax, or $0.11 per diluted share) in 2023 associated with our business realignment activities. These costs were related to certain employee severance arrangements. Payments under this program totaled approximately $118 million in 2023. The pre-tax cost of our business realignment activities was approximately $430 million. We did not incur any costs related to business realignment activities in 2024. Operating Expenses The following table compares operating expenses expressed as dollar amounts (in millions) and as a percent of revenue for the years ended May 31: (1) Includes asset impairment charges in 2024 associated with the FedEx Express operating segment. Includes goodwill and other asset impairment charges in 2023 associated with the FedEx Express and FedEx Dataworks operating segments. (2) Includes costs associated with our DRIVE program in 2024 and 2023 and the workforce reduction plan in Europe in 2023. (3) Includes a $57 million benefit in 2024 for insurance recoveries in connection with a FedEx Ground legal matter. Includes a $35 million charge in 2023 related to a separate FedEx Ground legal matter. Operating income increased in 2024 primarily due to our DRIVE program initiatives and base yield improvements at FedEx Ground and FedEx Freight, which more than offset volume declines at FedEx Freight and FedEx Express. Our DRIVE initiatives included continued benefits from network rationalization at FedEx Express, including structural flight takedowns and route optimization, and improvements in hub sort efficiency, as well as increasing linehaul efficiencies and improving dock productivity at FedEx Ground. Lower volumes contributed to reductions in salaries and employee benefits, fuel expense, purchased transportation, and rentals and landing fees. The effect of volume declines on salaries and employee benefits was offset by higher wages and variable incentive compensation. Other operating expenses decreased primarily due to lower bad debt accruals, professional fees, and self-insurance accruals. We recognized $157 million and $70 million of asset impairment charges in 2024 and 2023, respectively, associated with the decision to permanently retire certain aircraft and related engines at FedEx Express. Our 2023 results also include $47 million of goodwill and other asset impairment charges associated with the ShopRunner acquisition at FedEx Dataworks. See the “Goodwill and Other Asset Impairment Charges” section of this MD&A for more information. Fuel We apply a fuel surcharge on our air and ground services, most of which are adjusted on a weekly basis. The fuel surcharge is based on a weekly fuel price from ten days prior to the week in which it is assessed. Some FedEx Express international fuel surcharges are updated on a monthly basis. We routinely review our fuel surcharges and periodically update the tables used to determine our fuel surcharges at all of our transportation segments. While fluctuations in fuel surcharge percentages can be significant from period to period, fuel surcharges represent one of the many individual components of our pricing structure that impact our overall revenue and yield. Additional components include the mix of services sold, the base price, and extra service charges we obtain for these services and level of pricing discounts offered. - 53 - Fuel expense decreased 20% during 2024 due to lower fuel prices and usage. In addition to variability in usage and market prices, the manner in which we purchase fuel also influences our results. For example, our contracts for jet fuel purchases at FedEx Express are tied to various indices, including the U.S. Gulf Coast index. While many of these indices are aligned, each index may fluctuate at a different pace, driving variability in the prices paid for jet fuel. Furthermore, under these contractual arrangements, approximately 60% of our jet fuel is purchased based on the index price for the preceding week, with the remainder of our purchases tied primarily to the index price for the preceding month and preceding day, rather than based on daily spot rates. These contractual provisions mitigate the impact of rapidly changing daily spot rates on our jet fuel purchases. Because of the factors described above, our operating results may be affected should the market price of fuel suddenly change by a significant amount or change by amounts that do not result in an adjustment in our fuel surcharges, which can significantly affect our earnings either positively or negatively in the short-term. For more information, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” Other Income and Expense Interest income and interest expense increased $172 million and $51 million, respectively, in 2024 primarily due to an increase in interest rates. Retirement Plans MTM Adjustments In 2024, we incurred a pre-tax, noncash MTM gain of $561 million ($426 million, net of tax, or $1.69 per diluted share) related to the year-end actuarial adjustments of pension and postretirement healthcare plans’ assets and liabilities. These actuarial adjustments were due to higher discount rates, partially offset by changes to the actuarial assumptions regarding rates of retirement and short-term cash balance interest credits. In 2023, we incurred a pre-tax, noncash MTM gain of $650 million ($493 million, net of tax, or $1.92 per diluted share) related to the year-end actuarial adjustments of pension and postretirement healthcare plans’ assets and liabilities. These actuarial adjustments were due to higher discount rates, partially offset by lower-than-expected asset returns and demographic experience. For more information, see the “Critical Accounting Estimates” section of this MD&A and Note 1 and Note 13 of the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Income Taxes Our effective tax rate was 25.8% for 2024, compared to 25.9% for 2023. The 2024 tax provision includes an income tax expense of $54 million ($0.21 per diluted share) from the remeasurement of U.S. state deferred tax balances related to the merger of FedEx Ground and FedEx Services into Federal Express Corporation. The 2023 tax provision was impacted by an expense of $46 million ($0.18 per diluted share) related to a write-down and valuation allowance on certain foreign tax credit carryforwards due to operational changes which impacted the determination of the realizability of the deferred tax asset. Several countries in which the company operates have adopted the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development’s global framework implementing a 15% corporate minimum tax, commonly referred to as Pillar Two. The company will be subject to Pillar Two beginning in 2025. Based on currently issued guidance, we do not believe this will have a material effect on the company’s 2025 income tax provision. We will continue to monitor additional guidance as it is released. We are subject to taxation in the U.S. and various U.S. state, local, and foreign jurisdictions. We are currently under examination by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) for the 2016 through 2021 tax years. It is reasonably possible that certain income tax return proceedings will be completed during the next 12 months and could result in a change in our balance of unrecognized tax benefits. However, we believe we have recorded adequate amounts of tax, including interest and penalties, for any adjustments expected to occur. During 2021, we filed suit in U.S. District Court for the Western District of Tennessee challenging the validity of a tax regulation related to the one-time transition tax on unrepatriated foreign earnings, which was enacted as part of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“TCJA”). Our lawsuit seeks to have the court declare this regulation invalid and order the refund of overpayments of U.S. federal income taxes for 2018 and 2019 attributable to the denial of foreign tax credits under the regulation. We have recorded a cumulative benefit of $226 million attributable to our interpretation of the TCJA and the Internal Revenue Code. In March 2023, the District Court ruled that the regulation is invalid and contradicts the plain terms of the tax code. We continue to work towards obtaining a final judgment for the applicable refund amounts due to the regulation being invalid. Once the District Court enters a final judgment, the U.S. government could file an appeal with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. If we are ultimately unsuccessful in defending our position, we may be required to reverse the benefit previously recorded. For more information on income taxes, see the “Critical Accounting Estimates” section of this MD&A and Note 12 of the accompanying consolidated financial statements. - 54 - Equity Investments As of May 31, 2024 and 2023, the carrying value of our equity investments were $360 million and $302 million, respectively. For more information on equity investments, see Note 19 of the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Outlook During 2025, we expect revenue to increase, with service mix shifting further toward deferred service offerings. We will continue to execute on our DRIVE program initiatives focused on reducing our permanent cost structure, aligning our cost base with demand, and increasing the flexibility of our network. We will also continue to execute on our revenue quality strategy to mitigate yield pressures through surcharge management and optimizing our customer and service mix. We expect the benefits from DRIVE and revenue quality initiatives to be partially offset by expense headwinds related to higher global inflation, the unfavorable impact of the expiration of the contract for Federal Express to provide the U.S. Postal Service (“USPS”) domestic transportation services in September 2024, and two fewer operating days. See the “Business Optimization and Realignment Costs” section of this MD&A for additional information on our DRIVE program and other cost savings initiatives. Our capital expenditures for 2025 are expected to be approximately $5.2 billion, in line with 2024, as we continue to reduce our capital intensity relative to revenue. Aircraft spend is expected to decline, partially offset by increased investments in network optimization and modernization of our facilities. Our expected capital expenditures for 2025 include continued investments related to Network 2.0, as well as the continued modernization of the Federal Express Memphis World Hub and expansion and modernization of the Federal Express Indianapolis Hub. We will continue to evaluate our investments in critical long-term strategic projects to ensure our capital expenditures are expected to generate high returns on investment and are balanced with our outlook for global economic conditions. For additional details on key 2025 capital projects, refer to the “Financial Condition – Capital Resources” and “Financial Condition – Liquidity Outlook” sections of this MD&A. In June 2024, FedEx Express announced a workforce reduction plan in Europe as part of its ongoing measures to reduce structural costs. The plan will impact between 1,700 and 2,000 employees in Europe across back-office and commercial functions. The execution of the plan is subject to a consultation process that is expected to occur over an 18-month period in accordance with local country processes and regulations. We expect the pre-tax cost of the severance benefits and legal and professional fees to be provided under and related to the plan to range from $250 million to $375 million in cash expenditures. These charges are expected to be incurred through fiscal 2026 and will be classified as business optimization expenses. We expect savings from the plan to be between $125 million and $175 million on an annualized basis beginning in 2027. In June 2024, we announced that FedEx’s management and Board of Directors are conducting an assessment of the role of FedEx Freight in the company’s portfolio structure. The uncertainty of a slowing global economy, global inflation, geopolitical challenges including the ongoing conflicts between Russia and Ukraine and in the Middle East, and the effect these factors will have on the rate of growth of global trade, supply chains, fuel prices, and our business in particular, make any expectations for 2025 inherently less certain. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors” for more information. See “Forward-Looking Statements,” “Item 1A. Risk Factors,” “Trends Affecting Our Business,” and “Critical Accounting Estimates” for a discussion of these and other potential risks and uncertainties that could materially affect our future performance. Seasonality of Business Our businesses are cyclical in nature, as seasonal fluctuations affect volumes, revenue, and earnings. Historically, the U.S. express package business experiences an increase in volumes in late November and December. International business, particularly in the Asia-to-U.S. market, peaks in October and November in advance of the U.S. holiday sales season. Our first and third fiscal quarters, because they are summer vacation and post winter-holiday seasons, have historically experienced lower volumes relative to other periods. Historically, the fall was the busiest shipping period for FedEx Ground, while late December, June and July were the slowest periods. For FedEx Freight, the spring and fall are the busiest periods and the latter part of December through February is the slowest period. Shipment levels, operating costs, and earnings for each of our companies can also be adversely affected by inclement weather, particularly the impact of severe winter weather in our third fiscal quarter. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors” for more information. RECENT ACCOUN TING GUIDANCE See Note 2 of the accompanying consolidated financial statements for a discussion of recent accounting guidance. - 55 - REPORTABLE SEGMENTS During 2024 and 2023, FedEx Express, FedEx Ground, and FedEx Freight represented our major service lines and, along with FedEx Services, constituted our reportable segments. Our reportable segments for these periods included the following businesses: In the fourth quarter of 2023, we announced one FedEx, a consolidation plan to bring FedEx Ground and FedEx Services into Federal Express Corporation, becoming a single company operating a unified, fully integrated air-ground express network under the respected FedEx brand. The organizational redesign was implemented in phases with full legal implementation effective June 1, 2024. FedEx Freight continues to provide LTL freight transportation services as a separate subsidiary. During the implementation process in fiscal 2024, each of our reportable segments continued to have discrete financial information that was regularly reviewed when evaluating performance and making resource allocation decisions, and aligned with our management reporting structure and our internal financial reporting. Beginning in the first quarter of 2025, Federal Express and FedEx Freight represent our major service lines and constitute our reportable segments. Additionally, the results of FedEx Custom Critical will be included in the FedEx Freight segment instead of the Federal Express segment. This change was made to reflect our new management reporting structure. Prior-year amounts will be revised to reflect this presentation. FEDEX SERVI CES SEGMENT During 2024 and 2023, the FedEx Services segment provided direct and indirect support to our operating segments, and we allocated all of the net operating costs of the FedEx Services segment to reflect the full cost of operating our businesses in the results of those segments. We reviewed and evaluated the performance of our transportation segments based on operating income (inclusive of FedEx Services segment allocations). For the FedEx Services segment, performance was evaluated based on the effect of its total allocated net operating costs on our operating segments. Operating expenses for each of our transportation segments included the allocations from the FedEx Services segment to the respective transportation segments. These allocations included charges and credits for administrative services provided between operating companies. The allocations of net operating costs were based on metrics such as relative revenue or estimated services provided. We believe these allocations approximated the net cost of providing these functions. Our allocation methodologies were refined periodically, as necessary, to reflect changes in our businesses. COR PORATE, OTHER, AND ELIMINATIONS Corporate and other includes corporate headquarters costs for executive officers and certain legal and finance functions, including certain other costs and credits not attributed to our core business, and certain costs associated with developing integrated business solutions through our FedEx Dataworks operating segment. FedEx Dataworks is focused on creating solutions to transform the digital and physical experiences of our customers and team members. Also included in Corporate and other is the FedEx Office and Print Services, Inc. (“FedEx Office”) operating segment, which provides an array of document and business services and retail access to our customers for our package transportation businesses, and the FedEx Logistics operating segment, which provides specialty transportation, customs brokerage, and global ocean and air freight forwarding, as well as integrated supply chain management solutions through FedEx Supply Chain Distribution, Inc. (“FedEx Supply Chain”). The results of Corporate, other, and eliminations are not allocated to the other business segments. There will be no changes to Corporate, other, and eliminations in 2025 following the one FedEx consolidation. - 56 - In 2024, the improvement in operating results in Corporate, other, and eliminations was primarily due to decreased professional fees and business optimization expenses at FedEx Corporate and improved operating results at FedEx Logistics. The improved operating results at FedEx Logistics were primarily due to lower purchased transportation and bad debt expense, partially offset by decreased revenue. The comparison of operating loss between 2024 and 2023 at Corporate, other, and eliminations is affected by goodwill and other asset impairment charges of $47 million associated with the ShopRunner acquisition at FedEx Dataworks in 2023. Certain FedEx operating companies provide transportation and related services for other FedEx companies outside their reportable segment in order to optimize our resources. For example, during 2024 FedEx Ground provided delivery support for certain FedEx Express packages as part of our last-mile optimization efforts, and FedEx Freight provided road and intermodal support for both FedEx Ground and FedEx Express. In addition, FedEx Express worked with FedEx Logistics to secure air charters and other cargo space for U.S. customers. Billings for such services are based on negotiated rates, and are reflected as revenue of the billing segment. These rates are adjusted from time to time based on market conditions. Such intersegment revenue and expenses are eliminated in our consolidated results and are not separately identified in the following segment information because the amounts are not material. FEDEX EXPRES S SEGMENT FedEx Express offers a wide range of U.S. domestic and international shipping services for delivery of packages and freight including priority, deferred, and economy services, which provide delivery on a time-definite or day-definite basis. The following table compares revenue, operating expenses, operating income (dollars in millions), operating margin, and operating expenses as a percent of revenue for the years ended May 31: (1) International domestic revenue relates to our international intra-country operations. - 57 - The following table compares selected statistics (in thousands, except yield amounts) for the years ended May 31: (1) International domestic statistics relate to our international intra-country operations. FedEx Express Segment Revenue FedEx Express segment revenue decreased 4% in 2024 primarily due to volume declines, lower fuel surcharges, and reduced demand surcharges. Global average daily freight pounds decreased 13% in 2024 primarily as a result of weak global economic conditions as well as lower volume from the USPS. U.S. domestic average daily package volumes declined 4% in 2024 as global economic factors led to reduced demand for our services. These declines were partially offset by an increase in international export package volume of 4% in 2024 driven by a mix shift toward our deferred product offerings, partially offset by a global decline in international priority package volume. Lower fuel surcharges had a significant negative effect on yield across package and freight services during 2024. In addition, international export composite package yield decreased 5% in 2024 driven by reduced demand surcharges, a larger mix of e-commerce volume, and an increase in lower-yielding deferred volume related to the full reopening of the international economy service. Composite freight yield decreased 4% in 2024 due to reduced demand surcharges and an increased mix of deferred freight, also driven by the reopening of international economy service. - 58 - FedEx Express Segment Operating Income FedEx Express segment operating income decreased 27% in 2024 primarily due to reduced revenue, partially offset by lower operating expenses. Operating expenses declined in 2024 as a result of continued benefits from DRIVE initiatives that drove a reduction in our permanent cost structure, as well as lower volumes. These initiatives include network rationalization through structural flight takedowns and route optimization, along with improvements in hub sort efficiency. Currency exchange rates had a positive effect on revenue and a negative effect on expenses and operating income in 2024. Fuel expense decreased 20% in 2024 due to decreases in fuel prices and usage. Other operating expense decreased 8% in 2024 primarily due to lower bad debt expense and lower outside service contracts expense resulting from a decrease in temporary labor usage. Fewer aircraft leases as a result of lower volumes drove a decrease in rentals and landing fees of 10% in 2024. Maintenance and repairs expense decreased 5% in 2024 primarily due to lower aircraft maintenance resulting from an increase in aircraft temporarily parked. Salaries and employee benefits expense decreased 1% primarily due to decreased staffing to align with lower volume, partially offset by higher wage rates and increased variable incentive compensation. FedEx Express segment results in 2024 include $157 million of asset impairment charges associated with the decision to permanently retire certain aircraft and related engines and business optimization costs of $143 million associated with our plan to drive efficiency and lower our overhead and support costs. FedEx Express segment results in 2023 include $70 million of asset impairment charges associated with the decision to permanently retire certain aircraft and related engines, $36 million associated with our workforce reduction plan in Europe, and $11 million of business optimization costs which includes costs associated with idling our business in Russia. See the “Business Optimization and Realignment Costs” and “Goodwill and Other Asset Impairment Charges” sections of this MD&A for more information. In July 2023, FedEx Express’s pilots failed to ratify the tentative successor agreement that was approved by the Air Line Pilots Association, International’s FedEx Master Executive Council in the prior month. The ongoing bargaining process has no effect on our operations. For more information, see Note 1 of the accompanying consolidated financial statements. FEDEX GROUN D SEGMENT During 2024 and 2023, FedEx Ground service offerings included day-certain delivery to businesses in the U.S. and Canada and to 100% of U.S. residences. The following table compares revenue, operating expenses, operating income (dollars in millions), operating margin, selected package statistics (in thousands, except yield amounts), and operating expenses as a percent of revenue for the years ended May 31: (1) Ground commercial ADV is calculated on a 5-day-per-week basis, while home delivery and economy ADV are calculated on a 7-day-per-week basis. - 59 - FedEx Ground Segment Revenue FedEx Ground segment revenue increased 2% in 2024 primarily due to yield improvement and higher volumes. FedEx Ground yield increased 1% in 2024 primarily due to base yield improvement, partially offset by lower fuel surcharges. Total average daily volume increased 1% in 2024 primarily due to increased demand for our commercial and economy services. FedEx Ground Segment Operating Income FedEx Ground segment operating income increased 29% in 2024 primarily due to yield improvement, higher volume, lower self-insurance accruals, and lower purchased transportation expense. FedEx Ground lowered operating costs in 2024 through continued benefits from DRIVE initiatives focused on increasing linehaul efficiencies and improving dock productivity. In addition, FedEx Ground continued to realize benefits from reduced Sunday deliveries and consolidated sort operations in 2024. Purchased transportation expense decreased 3% in 2024 primarily due to lower fuel prices and increased third-party rail usage, partially offset by higher base rates. Other operating expense decreased 5% in 2024 primarily due to lower self-insurance accruals. Depreciation and rentals expense increased 10% and 4%, respectively, in 2024 primarily due to the completion of previously committed multi-year expansion projects. Maintenance and repairs expense increased 10% in 2024 primarily due to higher costs associated with outside vendor labor, vehicle parts, and facility maintenance. Salaries and employee benefits expense increased 1% in 2024 primarily due to higher wage rates and variable incentive compensation, partially offset by an increase in productivity. FedEx Ground results include business optimization costs of $108 million in 2024 associated with our plan to drive efficiency and lower our overhead and support costs. See the “Business Optimization and Realignment Costs” section of this MD&A for more information. - 60 - FEDEX FREIGH T SEGMENT FedEx Freight LTL service offerings include priority services when speed is critical and economy services when time can be traded for savings. The following table compares revenue, operating expenses, operating income (dollars in millions), operating margin, selected statistics, and operating expenses as a percent of revenue for the years ended May 31: FedEx Freight Segment Revenue FedEx Freight segment revenue decreased 6% in 2024 primarily due to lower shipments. Average daily shipments decreased 6% in 2024 due to reduced demand for our services, primarily resulting from macroeconomic conditions. Revenue per shipment decreased 1% in 2024 primarily due to lower weight per shipment and fuel surcharges, partially offset by base yield improvement from our continued focus on revenue quality. FedEx Freight Segment Operating Income FedEx Freight segment operating income decreased 6% in 2024 due to decreased revenue, partially offset by lower volume-related operating expenses. Fuel and purchased transportation expense decreased 24% and 15%, respectively, in 2024 due to lower fuel prices and decreased shipments. Salaries and employee benefits expense decreased 3% in 2024 primarily due to lower staffing to align with decreased shipments and an increase in productivity, partially offset by higher wage rates and variable incentive compensation. Other operating expense decreased 9% in 2024 primarily due to lower self-insurance accruals. - 61 - FINANCIAL CONDITION LIQUID ITY Cash and cash equivalents totaled $6.5 billion at May 31, 2024, compared to $6.9 billion at May 31, 2023. The following table provides a summary of our cash flows for the years ended May 31 (in millions): Cash Provided by Operating Activities. Cash flows from operating activities decreased $0.5 billion in 2024 primarily due to working capital changes, driven by an increase in accounts receivable, partially offset by an increase in accrued incentive compensation, as well as lower net income (net of noncash items). Cash Used in Investing Activities . Capital expenditures were 16% lower in 2024 primarily due to decreased spending on package handling and ground support equipment and information technology. See “Capital Resources” below for a more detailed discussion of capital expenditures during 2024. Financing Activities . We completed four ASR transactions with banks in 2024 to repurchase an aggregate of $2.5 billion of our common stock. A total of 9.8 million shares were repurchased under the agreements. During 2023, we completed an ASR transaction with a bank to repurchase an aggregate of $1.5 billion of our common stock, and 9.2 million shares were delivered. The following table provides a summary of repurchases of our common stock for the periods ended May 31 (dollars in millions, except per share amounts): - 62 - We executed an ASR agreement with two banks in June 2024 to repurchase $1 billion of our common stock with a completion date no later than the end of the first quarter of 2025. As of July 15, 2024, $4.1 billion remained available to be used for repurchases under the stock repurchase program approved by our Board of Directors in March 2024, which is the only program that currently exists. See “Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities” and Note 1 of the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional information. CAPITAL RE SOURCES Our operations are capital intensive, characterized by significant investments in aircraft, package handling and sort equipment, vehicles and trailers, technology, and facilities. The amount and timing of capital investments depend on various factors, including pre-existing contractual commitments, anticipated volume growth, domestic and international economic conditions, new or enhanced services, geographical expansion of services, availability of satisfactory financing, and actions of regulatory authorities. The following table compares capital expenditures by asset category and reportable segment for the years ended May 31 (in millions): Capital expenditures decreased $1.0 billion during 2024 primarily due to decreased spending on package handling and ground support equipment at FedEx Ground, information technology at FedEx Services, facilities and other at FedEx Ground, vehicles and trailers at FedEx Freight, and aircraft and related equipment at FedEx Express, partially offset by increased spending on facilities and other and vehicles and trailers at FedEx Express. GUARANTOR FINANCIAL IN FORMATION We are providing the following information in compliance with Rule 13-01 of Regulation S-X, “Financial Disclosures about Guarantors and Issuers of Guaranteed Securities” with respect to our senior unsecured debt securities and Pass-Through Certificates, Series 2020-1AA (the “Certificates”). The $19.2 billion principal amount of senior unsecured notes were issued by FedEx under a shelf registration statement and are guaranteed by certain direct and indirect subsidiaries of FedEx (“Guarantor Subsidiaries”). FedEx owns, directly or indirectly, 100% of each Guarantor Subsidiary. The guarantees are (1) unsecured obligations of the respective Guarantor Subsidiary, (2) rank equally with all of their other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness, and (3) are full and unconditional and joint and several. If we sell, transfer, or otherwise dispose of all of the capital stock or all or substantially all of the assets of a Guarantor Subsidiary to any person that is not an affiliate of FedEx, the guarantee of that Guarantor Subsidiary will terminate, and holders of debt securities will no longer have a direct claim against such subsidiary under the guarantee. Additionally, FedEx fully and unconditionally guarantees the payment obligation of FedEx Express in respect of the $788 million principal amount of the Certificates. See Note 6 of the accompanying consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding the terms of the Certificates. - 63 - The following tables present summarized financial information for FedEx (as Parent) and the Guarantor Subsidiaries on a combined basis after transactions and balances within the combined entities have been eliminated. Parent and Guarantor Subsidiaries The following table presents the summarized balance sheet information as of May 31, 2024 (in millions): The following table presents the summarized statement of income information as of May 31, 2024 (in millions): The following tables present summarized financial information for FedEx (as Parent Guarantor) and FedEx Express (as Subsidiary Issuer) on a combined basis after transactions and balances within the combined entities have been eliminated. Parent Guarantor and Subsidiary Issuer The following table presents the summarized balance sheet information as of May 31, 2024 (in millions): The following table presents the summarized statement of income information as of May 31, 2024 (in millions): LIQUIDITY OUTLOOK In response to current business and economic conditions as referenced above in the “Outlook” section of this MD&A, we are continuing to actively manage and optimize our capital allocation in response to the slowdown in the economy, inflationary pressures, changing fuel prices, and geopolitical conflicts. We held $6.5 billion in cash at May 31, 2024 and have $3.5 billion in available liquidity under our $1.75 billion three-year credit agreement (the “Three-Year Credit Agreement) and $1.75 billion five-year credit agreement (the “Five-Year Credit Agreement” and together with the Three-Year Credit Agreement, the “Credit Agreements”), and we believe that our cash and cash equivalents, cash flow from operations, and available financing sources are adequate to meet our liquidity needs, which include operational requirements, expected capital expenditures, voluntary pension contributions, dividend payments, and stock repurchases. As announced on June 25, 2024, we expect to repurchase $2.5 billion of our common stock in 2025. We executed an ASR agreement with two banks in June 2024 to repurchase $1 billion of our common stock with a completion date no later than the end of the first quarter of 2025. - 64 - Our cash and cash equivalents balance at May 31, 2024 includes $2.5 billion of cash in foreign jurisdictions associated with our permanent reinvestment strategy. We are able to access the majority of this cash without a material tax cost and do not believe that the indefinite reinvestment of these funds impairs our ability to meet our U.S. domestic debt or working capital obligations. Our capital expenditures for 2025 are expected to be approximately $5.2 billion, in line with 2024, as we continue to reduce our capital intensity relative to revenue. Aircraft spend is expected to decline, partially offset by increased investments in network optimization and modernization of our facilities. Our expected capital expenditures for 2025 include continued investments related to Network 2.0, as well as the continued modernization of the Federal Express Memphis World Hub and expansion and modernization of the Federal Express Indianapolis Hub. Our expected capital expenditures for 2025 also include $1.3 billion for delivery of aircraft and related equipment and progress payments toward future aircraft deliveries at Federal Express. We have several aircraft modernization programs under way that are supported by the purchase of Boeing 777 Freighter and Boeing 767-300 Freighter aircraft. These aircraft are significantly more fuel-efficient per unit than the aircraft types previously utilized, and these expenditures are necessary to achieve significant long-term operating savings and to replace older aircraft. Our ability to delay the timing of these aircraft-related expenditures is limited without incurring significant costs to modify existing purchase agreements. We have additional obligations as part of our ordinary course of business, beyond those committed for capital expenditures, which consist of debt obligations, lease obligations, and obligations and commitments for purchases of goods and services. Refer to Note 6, Note 7, and Note 18 of the accompanying consolidated financial statements for more information. In addition, we have certain tax positions that are further discussed in Note 12 of the accompanying consolidated financial statements. We do not have any guarantees or other off-balance sheet financing arrangements, including variable interest entities, which we believe could have a material impact on our financial condition or liquidity. We have a shelf registration statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) that allows us to sell, in one or more future offerings, any combination of our unsecured debt securities and common stock and allows pass-through trusts formed by Federal Express to sell, in one or more future offerings, pass-through certificates. The Three-Year Credit Agreement and the Five-Year Credit Agreement expire in March 2027 and March 2029, respectively. Each of the Credit Agreements has a $125 million letter of credit sublimit. The Credit Agreements are available to finance our operations and other cash flow needs. See Note 6 of the accompanying consolidated financial statements for a description of the terms and significant covenants of the Credit Agreements. We made voluntary contributions of $100 million to our tax-qualified U.S. domestic pension plan (“U.S. Pension Plan”) in June 2024 and anticipate making $700 million of additional voluntary contributions during the remainder of 2025. There are currently no required minimum contributions to our U.S. Pension Plan, and we maintain a credit balance related to our cumulative excess voluntary pension contributions over those required that exceeds $3.0 billion. The credit balance is subtracted from plan assets to determine the minimum funding requirements. Therefore, we have the flexibility to eliminate all required contributions to our principal U.S. Pension Plan for several years. Our U.S. Pension Plan has ample funds to meet expected benefit payments. On June 10, 2024, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $1.38 per share of common stock. The dividend was paid on July 9, 2024 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on June 24, 2024. Each quarterly dividend payment is subject to review and approval by our Board of Directors, and we evaluate our dividend payment amount on an annual basis. There are no material restrictions on our ability to declare dividends, nor are there any material restrictions on the ability of our subsidiaries to transfer funds to us in the form of cash dividends, loans, or advances. Standard & Poor’s has assigned us a senior unsecured debt credit rating of BBB, a Certificates rating of AA-, a commercial paper rating of A-2, and a ratings outlook of “stable.” Moody’s Investors Service has assigned us an unsecured debt credit rating of Baa2, a Certificates rating of Aa3, a commercial paper rating of P-2, and a ratings outlook of “stable.” Our interest expense may increase in the event of a reduction in our credit rating. If our unsecured debt or commercial paper ratings are reduced to below investment grade, our access to the capital markets may become limited. CRITICAL ACCOUNT ING ESTIMATES The preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make significant judgments and estimates to develop amounts reflected and disclosed in the financial statements. In many cases, there are alternative policies or estimation techniques that could be used. We maintain a thorough process to review the application of our accounting policies and to evaluate the appropriateness of the many estimates that are required to prepare the financial statements of a complex, global corporation. However, even under optimal circumstances, estimates routinely require adjustment based on changing circumstances and new or better information. - 65 - The estimates discussed below include the financial statement elements that are either the most judgmental or involve the selection or application of alternative accounting policies and are material to our results of operations and financial condition. Management has discussed the development and selection of these critical accounting estimates with the Audit and Finance Committee of our Board of Directors and with our independent registered public accounting firm. P ENSION PLANS The rules for pension accounting are complex and can produce volatility in our earnings, financial condition, and liquidity. Our defined benefit pension plans are measured using actuarial techniques that reflect management’s assumptions for expected returns on assets (“EROA”), discount rate, and demographic experience such as salary increases, expected retirement, mortality, and employee turnover. Differences between these assumptions and actual experience are recognized in our earnings through MTM accounting. Our annual MTM adjustment is highly sensitive to the discount rate and EROA assumptions, which are as follows: The following sensitivity analysis shows the impact of a 50-basis-point change in the EROA and discount rate assumptions for our largest pension plan and the resulting increase (decrease) in our projected benefit obligation (“PBO”) as of May 31, 2024 and expense for the year ended May 31, 2024 (in millions): See Note 13 of the accompanying consolidated financial statements for further information about our pension plans. INCOM E TAXES We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our income taxes are a function of our income, tax planning opportunities available to us, statutory tax rates, and the income tax laws in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. These tax laws are complex and subject to different interpretations by us and the respective governmental taxing authorities. As a result, significant judgment is required in determining our tax expense and in evaluating our tax positions, including evaluating uncertainties. Also, our effective tax rate is significantly affected by the earnings generated in each jurisdiction, so unexpected fluctuations in the geographic mix of earnings could significantly impact our tax rate. Our intercompany transactions are based on globally accepted transfer pricing principles, which align profits with the business operations and functions of the various legal entities in our international business. We evaluate our tax positions quarterly and adjust the balances as new information becomes available. These evaluations are based on factors including, but not limited to, changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax laws or their interpretations, audit activity, and changes in our business. In addition, management considers the advice of third parties in making conclusions regarding tax consequences. Tax contingencies arise from uncertainty in the application of tax rules throughout the many jurisdictions in which we operate. Despite our belief that our tax return positions are consistent with applicable tax laws, taxing authorities could challenge certain positions. We record tax benefits for uncertain tax positions based upon management’s evaluation of the information available at the reporting date. To be recognized in the financial statements, a tax benefit must be at least more likely than not of being sustained based on the technical merits. The benefit for positions meeting the recognition threshold is measured as the largest benefit more likely than not of being realized upon ultimate settlement with a taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information. Significant judgment is required in making these determinations and adjustments to unrecognized tax benefits may be necessary to reflect actual taxes payable upon settlement. - 66 - Deferred income tax assets represent amounts available to reduce income taxes payable on taxable income in future years. Such assets arise because of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, as well as from net operating loss, capital loss, and tax credit carryforwards. We evaluate the recoverability of these future tax deductions and credits by assessing the adequacy of future expected taxable income from all sources, including reversal of taxable temporary differences, forecasted operating earnings, and available tax planning strategies. These sources of income rely heavily on estimates to make this determination, and as a result there is a risk that these estimates will have to be revised as new information is received. To the extent we do not consider it more likely than not that a deferred tax asset will be recovered, a valuation allowance is established. We believe we will generate sufficient future taxable income to realize the tax benefits related to the remaining net deferred tax assets in our consolidated balance sheets that are not subject to valuation allowances. We record the taxes for global intangible low-taxed income as a period cost. Our income tax positions are based on currently enacted tax laws. As further guidance is issued by the U.S. Treasury Department, the IRS, and other standard-setting bodies, any resulting changes to our estimates will be treated in accordance with the relevant accounting guidance. For more information, see the “Income Taxes” section of this MD&A and Note 12 of the accompanying consolidated financial statements. SELF-INSURAN CE ACCRUALS Our self-insurance reserves are established for estimates of ultimate loss on all incurred claims, including incurred-but-not-reported claims. Components of our self-insurance reserves included in this critical accounting estimate are workers’ compensation claims, vehicle accidents, property and cargo loss, general business liabilities, and benefits paid under employee disability programs. These reserves are primarily based on the actuarially estimated cost of claims incurred as of the balance sheet date. These estimates include judgment about severity of claims, frequency and volume of claims, healthcare inflation, seasonality, and plan designs. The use of any estimation technique in this area is inherently sensitive given the magnitude of claims involved and the length of time until the ultimate cost is known, which may be several years. We believe our recorded obligations for these expenses are consistently measured and appropriate. Nevertheless, changes in accident frequency and severity, healthcare costs, insurance retention levels, and other factors can materially affect the estimates for these liabilities and affect our results of operations. Self-insurance accruals reflected in our balance sheet for the period ended May 31 are as follows (in millions): A five-percent reduction or improvement in the assumed claim severity used to estimate our self-insurance accruals would result in an increase or decrease of approximately $280 million in our reserves and expenses as of and for the year ended May 31, 2024. For more information, see “Item 1A. Risk Factors” of this Annual Report. LONG-LIVED ASSETS USEFUL LIVES AND SALVAGE VALUES . Our business is capital intensive, with approximately 60% of our owned assets invested in our transportation and information system infrastructures. The depreciation or amortization of our capital assets over their estimated useful lives, and the determination of any salvage values, requires management to make judgments about future events. Because we utilize many of our capital assets over relatively long periods (the majority of aircraft costs are depreciated over 18 to 30 years), we periodically evaluate whether adjustments to our estimated service lives or salvage values are necessary to ensure these estimates properly match the economic use of the asset. These evaluations consider usage, maintenance costs, and economic factors that affect the useful life of an asset. This evaluation may result in changes in the estimated lives and residual values used to depreciate our aircraft and other equipment. - 67 - For our aircraft, we consider actual experience with the same or similar aircraft types and future volume projections in estimating the useful lives and expected salvage values. We typically assign no residual value due to the utilization of our aircraft in cargo configuration, which results in little to no value at the end of their useful life. These estimates affect the amount of depreciation expense recognized in a period and, ultimately, the gain or loss on the disposal of the asset. Changes in the estimated lives of assets will result in an increase or decrease in the amount of depreciation recognized in future periods and could have a material impact on our results of operations (as described below). Historically, gains and losses on disposals of operating equipment have not been material. However, such amounts may differ materially in the future due to changes in business levels, technological obsolescence, accident frequency, regulatory changes, and other factors beyond our control. IMPAIRMENT. As of May 31, 2024, the FedEx Express global air network included a fleet of 698 aircraft (including 309 supplemental aircraft) that provide delivery of packages and freight to more than 220 countries and territories through a wide range of U.S. and international shipping services. While certain aircraft are utilized in primary geographic areas (U.S. versus international), we operate an integrated global network, and utilize our aircraft and other modes of transportation to achieve the lowest cost of delivery while maintaining our service commitments to our customers. Because of the integrated nature of our global network, our aircraft are interchangeable across routes and geographies, giving us flexibility with our fleet planning to meet changing global economic conditions and maintain and modify aircraft as needed. Because of the lengthy lead times for aircraft manufacture and modifications, we must anticipate volume levels and plan our fleet requirements years in advance, and make commitments for aircraft based on those projections. Furthermore, the timing and availability of certain used aircraft types (particularly those with better fuel efficiency) may create limited opportunities to acquire these aircraft at favorable prices in advance of our capacity needs. These activities create risks that asset capacity may exceed demand. At May 31, 2024, we had three purchased aircraft that were not yet placed into service. We evaluate our long-lived assets used in operations for impairment when events and circumstances indicate that the undiscounted cash flows to be generated by that asset group are less than the carrying amounts of the asset group and may not be recoverable. If the  cash flows do not exceed the carrying value, the asset must be adjusted to its current fair value. We operate integrated transportation networks, and accordingly, cash flows for most of our operating assets are assessed at a network level, not at an individual asset level for our analysis of impairment. Further, decisions about capital investments are evaluated based on the effect on the overall network rather than the return on an individual asset. We make decisions to remove certain long-lived assets from service based on projections of reduced capacity needs or lower operating costs of newer aircraft types, and those decisions may result in an impairment charge. Assets held for disposal must be adjusted to their estimated fair values less costs to sell when the decision is made to dispose of the asset and certain other criteria are met. The fair value determinations for such aircraft may require management estimates, as there may not be active markets for some of these aircraft. Such estimates are subject to revision from period to period. In the fourth quarter of 2024, we made the decision to permanently retire from service 22 Boeing 757-200 aircraft and seven related engines to align with the plans of FedEx Express to modernize its aircraft fleet, improve its global network, and better align air network capacity to match current and anticipated shipment volumes. As a consequence of this decision, a noncash impairment charge of $157 million ($120 million, net of tax, or $0.48 per diluted share) was recorded in the fourth quarter. Of these aircraft, 16 were temporarily idled and not in revenue service. In 2023 we accelerated the retirement of the entire Boeing MD-11 fleet by the end of 2028. In the fourth quarter of 2024, FedEx Express permanently retired nine MD-11F aircraft as part of this decision. During 2023, FedEx Express made the decision to permanently retire from service 12 Boeing MD-11F aircraft and 25 related engines, four Boeing 757-200 aircraft and one related engine, and two Airbus A300-600 aircraft and eight related engines to align with the plans of FedEx Express to modernize its aircraft fleet, improve its global network, and better align air network capacity to match current and anticipated shipment volumes. As a consequence of this decision, a noncash impairment charge of $70 million ($54 million, net of tax, or $0.21 per diluted share) was recorded in 2023. In addition, during 2023, FedEx Express made the decision to accelerate the retirement of 46 MD-11F aircraft and related engines to aid in our fleet modernization, improve our global network, and better align air network capacity of FedEx Express to match current and anticipated shipment volumes. As a result of this decision, we had a net increase of approximately $12 million in depreciation expense in 2024 and expect the expense impact in 2025 to be immaterial. - 68 - In the normal management of our aircraft fleet, we routinely idle aircraft and engines temporarily due to maintenance cycles and adjustments of our network capacity to match seasonality and overall customer demand levels. Temporarily idled assets are classified as available-for-use, and we continue to record depreciation expense associated with these assets. These temporarily idled assets are assessed for impairment and remaining life on a quarterly basis. The criteria for determining whether an asset has been permanently removed from service (and, as a result, is potentially impaired) include, but are not limited to, our global economic outlook and the impact of our outlook on our current and projected volume levels, including capacity needs during our peak shipping seasons; the introduction of new fleet types or decisions to permanently retire an aircraft fleet from operations; and changes to planned service expansion activities. At May 31, 2024, we had 19 aircraft temporarily idled. These aircraft have been idled for an average of eight months and are expected to return to revenue service in order to meet expected demand. During 2023, we reviewed long-lived assets at FedEx Dataworks for impairment. Based on our reviews, we recognized an $11 million ($8 million, net of tax, or $0.03 per diluted share) asset impairment charge related to an intangible asset from the ShopRunner acquisition. For more information, see Note 4 of the accompanying consolidated financial statements. LEASES . We utilize operating leases to finance certain of our aircraft, facilities, and equipment. Such arrangements typically shift the risk of loss on the residual value of the assets at the end of the lease period to the lessor. We had $18 billion in operating lease liabilities and $17 billion in related right-of-use assets on the balance sheet as of May 31, 2024. The weighted-average remaining lease term of all operating leases outstanding at May 31, 2024 was 9.5 years. Our leases generally contain options to extend or terminate the lease. We reevaluate our leases on a regular basis to consider the economic and strategic incentives of exercising the renewal options, and how they align with our operating strategy. Therefore, substantially all the renewal option periods are not included within the lease term and the associated payments are not included in the measurement of the right-of-use asset and lease liability as the options to extend are not reasonably certain at lease commencement. Short-term leases with an initial term of 12 months or less are not recognized in the right-to-use asset and lease liability on the consolidated balance sheets. The lease liabilities are measured at the lease commencement date and determined using the present value of the minimum lease payments not yet paid and our incremental borrowing rate, which approximates the rate at which we would borrow, on a collateralized basis, over the term of a lease in the applicable currency environment. The interest rate implicit in the lease is generally not determinable in transactions where we are the lessee. The determination of whether a lease is accounted for as a finance lease or an operating lease requires management to make estimates primarily about the fair value of the asset and its estimated economic useful life. In addition, our evaluation includes ensuring we properly account for build-to-suit lease arrangements and making judgments about whether various forms of lessee involvement allow the lessee to control the underlying leased asset during the construction period. We believe we have well-defined and controlled processes for making these evaluations, including obtaining third-party appraisals for material transactions to assist us in making these evaluations. GOODWILL . We had $6.4 billion of recorded goodwill at May 31, 2024 and 2023 from our business acquisitions, representing the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net assets acquired. Several factors give rise to goodwill in our acquisitions, such as the expected benefits from synergies of the combination and the existing workforce of the acquired business. Goodwill is reviewed at least annually for impairment. In our evaluation of goodwill impairment, we perform a qualitative assessment that requires management judgment and the use of estimates to determine if it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. An entity has an unconditional option to bypass the qualitative assessment for any reporting unit and proceed directly to performing the quantitative goodwill impairment test. An entity may resume performing the qualitative assessment in any subsequent period. We performed a qualitative assessment of goodwill in the fourth quarter of 2024 and both qualitative and quantitative assessments of goodwill in the fourth quarter of 2023. The quantitative assessment included comparing the fair value of the reporting unit to its carrying value (including attributable goodwill). Fair value is estimated using standard valuation methodologies (principally the income or market approach classified as Level 3 within the fair value hierarchy) incorporating market participant considerations and management’s assumptions on revenue growth rates, operating margins, discount rates, and expected capital expenditures. Estimates used by management can significantly affect the outcome of the impairment test. Changes in forecasted operating results and other assumptions could materially affect these estimates. As part of our qualitative assessment, we consider changes in the macroeconomic environment such as the general economic conditions, limitations on accessing capital, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, and other developments in equity and credit markets. Our reporting units with significant recorded goodwill include FedEx Express, FedEx Ground, and FedEx Freight. We evaluated these reporting units during the fourth quarters of 2024 and 2023 and the estimated fair value of each of these reporting units exceeded their - 69 - carrying values as of the end of 2024 and 2023; therefore, we do not believe that any of these reporting units were impaired as of the balance sheet dates. In connection with our annual impairment testing of goodwill conducted in the fourth quarter of 2023, we recorded an impairment charge of $36 million ($36 million, net of tax, or $0.14 per diluted share) for all of the goodwill attributable to our FedEx Dataworks reporting unit. The key factors contributing to the goodwill impairment were underperformance of the ShopRunner business during 2023, including base business erosion, and the failure to attain the level of operating synergies and revenue and profit growth anticipated at the time of acquisition. Based on these factors, our outlook for the business changed in the fourth quarter of 2023. LEGAL AND OTHER CONTINGE NCIES We are subject to various loss contingencies in connection with our operations. Contingent liabilities are difficult to measure, as their measurement is subject to multiple factors that are not easily predicted or projected. Further, additional complexity in measuring these liabilities arises due to the various jurisdictions in which these matters occur, which makes our ability to predict their outcome highly uncertain. Moreover, different accounting rules must be employed to account for these items based on the nature of the contingency. Accordingly, significant management judgment is required to assess these matters and to make determinations about the measurement of a liability, if any. Certain pending loss contingencies are described in Note 20 of the accompanying consolidated financial statements. In the opinion of management, the aggregate liability, if any, of individual matters or groups of related matters not specifically described in Note 20 is not expected to be material to our financial position, results of operations, or cash flows. The following describes our methods and associated processes for evaluating these matters. Because of the complex environment in which we operate, we are subject to numerous legal proceedings and claims, including those relating to general commercial matters, governmental enforcement actions, employment-related claims, vehicle accidents, and contracted service providers. Accounting guidance for contingencies requires an accrual of estimated loss from a contingency, such as a non-income tax or other legal proceeding or claim, when it is probable (i.e., the future event or events are likely to occur) that a loss has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. This guidance also requires disclosure of a loss contingency matter when, in management’s judgment, a material loss is reasonably possible or probable. During the preparation of our financial statements, we evaluate our contingencies to determine whether it is probable, reasonably possible, or remote that a liability has been incurred. A loss is recognized for all contingencies deemed probable and reasonably estimable. For unresolved contingencies with potentially material exposure that are deemed reasonably possible, we evaluate whether a potential loss or range of loss can be reasonably estimated. Our evaluation of these matters is the result of a comprehensive process designed to ensure that accounting recognition of a loss or disclosure of these contingencies is made in a timely manner and involves our legal and accounting personnel, as well as external counsel where applicable. The process includes regular communications during each quarter and scheduled meetings shortly before the completion of our financial statements to evaluate any new legal proceedings and the status of existing matters. In determining whether a loss should be accrued or a loss contingency disclosed, we evaluate, among other factors: • the current status of each matter within the scope and context of the entire lawsuit or proceeding (e.g., the lengthy and complex nature of class-action matters); • the procedural status of each matter; • any opportunities to dispose of a lawsuit on its merits before trial (i.e., motion to dismiss or for summary judgment); • the amount of time remaining before a trial date; • the status of discovery; • the status of settlement, arbitration, or mediation proceedings; and • our judgment regarding the likelihood of success prior to or at trial. In reaching our conclusions with respect to accrual of a loss or loss contingency disclosure, we take a holistic view of each matter based on these factors and the information available prior to the issuance of our financial statements. Uncertainty with respect to an individual factor or combination of these factors may impact our decisions related to accrual or disclosure of a loss contingency, including a conclusion that we are unable to establish an estimate of possible loss or a meaningful range of possible loss. We update our disclosures to reflect our most current understanding of the contingencies at the time we issue our financial statements. However, events may arise that were not anticipated and the outcome of a contingency may result in a loss to us that differs materially from our previously estimated liability or range of possible loss. - 70 - Despite the inherent complexity in the accounting and disclosure of contingencies, we believe that our processes are robust and thorough and provide a consistent framework for management in evaluating the potential outcome of contingencies for proper accounting recognition and disclosure.