********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

In addition to the other information in this report, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating our company and operations. Risk Factor Summary • Security vulnerabilities or control failures in our IT infrastructure or multicloud application security and delivery solutions and services as well as unforeseen product errors could have a material adverse impact on our business results of operations, financial condition and reputation; • We are dependent on various information technology systems, and failures of or interruptions to those systems could harm our business; • Our success depends on our key personnel and our ability to hire, retain and motivate qualified executives, sales and marketing, operations, product development and professional services personnel; • Cloud-based and SaaS computing trends present competitive and execution risks; • Our success depends upon our ability to effectively plan and manage our resources and restructure our business; • Our business may be harmed if our contract manufacturers are not able to provide us with adequate supplies of our products or if a single source of hardware assembly is lost or impaired; • Our business could suffer if there are any interruptions or delays in the supply of hardware components from our third-party sources; • It is difficult to predict our future operating results because we have an unpredictable sales cycle; • We may not be able to sustain or develop new distribution relationships, and a reduction or delay in sales to significant distribution partners could hurt our business; • Reliance on fulfillment at the end of the quarter could cause our revenue for the applicable period to fall below expected levels; • Our operating results are exposed to risks associated with international commerce; • The average selling price of our products may decrease and our costs may increase, which may negatively impact revenues and profits; and • Acquisitions present many risks and we may not realize the financial and strategic goals that are contemplated at the time of the transaction. 14 • Our success depends on our timely development of new software and systems products and features, market acceptance of new software and systems product offerings and proper management of the timing of the life cycle of our software and systems products; • Our success depends on sales and continued innovation of our application security and delivery product lines; • Issues related to the development and use of artificial intelligence ("AI") could give rise to legal and/or regulatory action, damage our reputation or otherwise materially harm of our business; • Our business could be adversely impacted by conditions affecting the markets in which we compete; • Industry consolidation may result in increased competition; • We may not be able to compete effectively in the application security and delivery market; and • Misuse of our products could harm our reputation. • Our failure to adequately protect personal information could have a material adverse effect on our business; • A portion of our revenue is generated by sales to government entities, which are subject to a number of challenges and risks; • We face litigation risks; • We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, and our products may infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties; • We are subject to governmental export and import controls that could subject us to liability or impair our ability to compete in international markets; and • Changes in governmental regulations could negatively affect our revenues. • We may have exposure to greater than anticipated tax liabilities; • We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations; • Changes in financial accounting standards may cause adverse unexpected revenue fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations; and • If we are unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, the accuracy and timeliness of our financial reporting may be adversely affected. • Our quarterly and annual operating results may fluctuate in future periods, which may cause our stock price to fluctuate; • Anti-takeover provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us; • Our stock price could be volatile, particularly during times of economic uncertainty and volatility in domestic and international stock markets; and • If securities or industry analysts publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, or discontinue publishing research about our business, the price and trading volume of our securities could decline. • Continued macroeconomic downturns or uncertainties may harm our industry, business, and results of operations; • We face risks associated with having operations and employees located in Israel; • Our business is subject to the risks of earthquakes, fire, power outages, floods, and other catastrophic events, and to interruption by man-made problems such as terrorism; and • Climate change may have an impact on our business. 15 Operational and Execution Risks Security vulnerabilities or control failures in our IT infrastructure or multicloud application security and delivery products and services as well as unforeseen product errors could have a material adverse impact on our business results of operations, financial condition and reputation In the ordinary course of business, we store sensitive data, including intellectual property, personal data, our proprietary business information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners on our networks. In addition, we store sensitive data through cloud-based services that may be hosted by third parties and in data center infrastructure maintained by third parties. The secure maintenance of this information is critical to our operations and business strategy. Our IT infrastructure and those of our partners and customers are subject to the increasing threat of intrusions by a wide range of bad actors and malicious parties, including computer programmers, hackers or sophisticated nation-state and nation-state supported actors, or they may be compromised due to employee error or wrongful conduct, malfeasance, or other disruptions. Despite our security measures, and those of our third-party vendors, our IT infrastructure has experienced breaches or disruptions and may be vulnerable in the future to breach, attacks or disruptions. If any breach or attack compromises our IT infrastructure, creates system disruptions or slowdowns or exploits security vulnerabilities therein, the information stored on our networks or those of our customers could be accessed and modified, publicly disclosed, or lost or stolen, and we may be subject to liability to our customers, individuals, suppliers, business partners and others, and may suffer reputational and financial harm. Our multicloud application security and delivery products and services are used by our customers to manage their critical applications and data. Bad actors and other malicious parties, have in the past and may attempt in the future to exploit security vulnerabilities and control weaknesses in our internal IT infrastructure or cloud environments that support our SaaS-based and managed solutions and services as well as our products that may be deployed in a customer environment. Despite our efforts to harden our IT infrastructure, our security and delivery products and services against these risks, those efforts may not be successful, and from time to time, those systems and products could be compromised. Threat actors can seek to exploit, among other things, known or unknown vulnerabilities and control weaknesses in technology included in our IT infrastructure, security and delivery products and services, and failure to quickly identify, patch or mitigate security vulnerabilities or strengthen security controls could render our IT infrastructure, security and delivery products and services susceptible to a cyber-attack which may subject the Company to liability to our customers, suppliers, business partners and others, as well as reputational and financial harm. Moreover, inadequate or incomplete security monitoring, logging, asset management, or internal reporting and escalation, or gaps in coverage of security tools in our environment, could impact our ability to detect and respond to threats early and efficiently, giving threat actors an opportunity to gain access to our environment undetected. Finally, we rely on a number of third parties who connect to our network or with whom we share data, to support our business and operations, and to the extent that these third parties have weaknesses or deficiencies in their security program or vulnerabilities, they present business, operational, reputational, financial and legal risk. If any one or more of these vendor's security is compromised, it could have similar consequences as if we experienced a security event ourselves. Our products may also contain undetected errors, defects, or vulnerabilities when first introduced or as new versions are released. We have experienced these issues in the past in connection with new products and product upgrades. As our products and customer IT infrastructures become increasingly complex, customers may also experience unforeseen errors in implementing our products into their IT environments. We expect that these errors, defects, or vulnerabilities will be found from time to time in new or enhanced products after commencement of commercial shipments. Any of these may temporarily or permanently disable our end-customers’ networks, information technology infrastructure or other systems, or expose our end-customers’ networks to attacks or compromise from security threats. These problems may cause us to incur significant warranty and repair costs, divert the attention of our engineering personnel from our product development efforts, cause significant customer relations problems, and impact demand for our products and services. We may also be subject to liability claims for damages. We carry insurance policies covering these types of liabilities, but these policies may not provide sufficient protection should a claim be asserted. A material product liability claim may harm our business and results of operations. Our products must successfully operate with products from other vendors. As a result, when problems occur in a network, it may be difficult to identify the source of the problem. The occurrence of software or hardware problems, whether caused by our products or another vendor’s products, may result in the delay or loss of market acceptance of our products. The occurrence of any of these problems may harm our business and results of operations. Any errors, defects or vulnerabilities in our products or IT infrastructure could result in: • expenditures of significant financial and product development resources in efforts to analyze, correct, eliminate, or work-around errors and defects or to address and eliminate vulnerabilities; • remediation costs, such as liability for stolen assets or information, repairs or system damage; 16 • increased cybersecurity protection costs which may include systems and technology changes, training, and engagement of third party experts and consultants; • increased insurance premiums; • loss of existing or potential customers or channel partners; • loss of proprietary information leading to lost competitive positioning and lost revenues; • inaccessibility to certain data or systems necessary to operate the business; • negative publicity and damage to our reputation; • delayed or lost revenue; • delay or failure to attain market acceptance or decrease in demand for our products and services; • an increase in warranty claims compared with our historical experience, or an increased cost of servicing warranty claims, either of which would adversely affect our gross margins; and • litigation, regulatory inquiries, or investigations that may be costly and harm our reputation. We are dependent on various information technology systems, and failures of or interruptions to those systems could harm our business Many of our business processes depend upon our IT systems, the systems and processes of third parties, including cloud hosting service providers, and on interfaces with the systems of third parties. For example, our order entry system provides information to the systems of our contract manufacturers, which enables them to build and ship our products. If those systems fail or are interrupted, or if our ability to connect to or interact with one or more networks is interrupted, our processes may function at a diminished level or not at all. This could harm our ability to ship products or our ability to deliver cloud-based services, which could harm our financial results. In addition, reconfiguring our IT systems or other business processes in response to changing business needs may be time-consuming and costly. To the extent this impacted our ability to react timely to specific market or business opportunities, our financial results may be harmed. Our success depends on our key personnel and our ability to hire, retain and motivate qualified executives, sales and marketing, operations, product development and professional services personnel Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract, engage, retain, and integrate qualified executives and other key employees throughout all areas of our business. In order to attract and retain executives and other key employees in a competitive marketplace, we must provide a competitive compensation package, including cash- and equity-based compensation. If we do not obtain the stockholder approval needed to continue granting equity compensation in a competitive manner, our ability to attract, retain, and motivate executives and key employees could be weakened. Failure to successfully hire executives and key employees or the loss of any executives and key employees could have a significant impact on our operations. We have recently experienced changes in our senior leadership team and we expect to continue to see changes as we build the team that is needed to execute our strategy. Changes in our management team may be disruptive to our business, and any failure to successfully integrate key new hires or promoted employees could adversely affect our business and results of operations. The complexity of our products and their integration into existing networks and ongoing support, as well as the sophistication of our sales and marketing effort, requires us to retain highly trained developers, professional services, customer support and sales personnel. Competition for qualified developers, professional services, customer support and sales personnel in our industry is intense, especially in Silicon Valley and Seattle where we have substantial operations and a need for highly skilled personnel, because of the limited number of people available with the necessary technical skills and understanding of our products. Also, to the extent we hire personnel from competitors, we may be subject to allegations that they have been improperly solicited, that they have divulged proprietary or other confidential information, that they have violated non-compete obligations to their prior employers, or that their former employers own their inventions or other work product. Our ability to hire and retain these personnel may be adversely affected by volatility or reductions in the price of our common stock or our ability to get approval from shareholders to offer additional common stock to our employees, since these employees are generally granted restricted stock units. The loss of services of any of our key personnel, the inability to retain and attract qualified personnel in the future or delays in hiring qualified personnel may harm our business and results of operations. In addition, restructuring plans to better align strategic and financial objectives, optimize operations, and drive efficiencies for long-term growth and profitability, may include a reduction in force of the Company's workforce. These restructuring activities could lead to increased attrition amongst those employees who were not directly affected by the reduction in force program. 17 Cloud-based and SaaS computing trends present competitive and execution risks Customers are transitioning to a hybrid computing environment utilizing various cloud-based software and services accessed via various smart client devices. Pricing and delivery models are evolving and our competitors are developing and deploying cloud-based services for customers. In addition, new cloud infrastructures are enabling the emergence of new competitors including large cloud providers who offer their own application security and delivery functionality as well as smaller companies targeting the growing numbers of "born in the cloud" applications. We devote significant resources to develop and deploy our cloud-based and SaaS software and services strategies. While we believe our expertise and investments in software and infrastructure for cloud-based services provides us with a strong foundation to compete, it is uncertain whether our strategies will continue to attract the customers or generate the revenue required to be successful. In addition to software development costs, we are incurring costs to build and maintain infrastructure to support cloud-computing and SaaS services to secure our customers’ data. These costs may reduce the gross and operating margins we have previously achieved. Whether we are successful in this new business model depends on our execution in a number of areas, including: • continuing to innovate and bring to market compelling cloud-based and SaaS services through consumption models that generate increasing traffic and market share; • maintaining the utility, compatibility and performance of our software on the growing array of cloud and SaaS computing platforms and the enhanced interoperability requirements associated with orchestration of cloud computing environments; and • implementing the infrastructure and the securitization of our customers' data to deliver our own cloud-based and SaaS services. These new business models may reduce our revenues or gross and operating margins and could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our success depends upon our ability to effectively plan and manage our resources and restructure our business Our ability to successfully offer our products and services in a rapidly evolving market requires an effective planning, forecasting, and management process to enable us to effectively scale and adjust our business and business models in response to fluctuating market opportunities and conditions. From time to time, we have increased investment in our business by increasing headcount, acquiring companies, and increasing our investment in research and development, sales and marketing, and other parts of our business. Conversely, in the last few years, we have initiated restructuring plans to better align strategic and financial objectives, optimize operations, and drive efficiencies for long-term growth and profitability, which resulted in restructuring charges. Our ability to achieve the anticipated cost savings and other benefits from these initiatives is subject to many estimates and assumptions, which are subject to uncertainties. If our estimates and assumptions are incorrect, if we are unsuccessful at implementing changes, or if other unforeseen events occur, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our business may be harmed if our contract manufacturers are not able to provide us with adequate supplies of our products or if a single source of hardware assembly is lost or impaired We outsource the manufacturing of our hardware platforms to third party contract manufacturers who assemble these hardware platforms to our specifications. We have experienced minor delays in shipments from contract manufacturers in the past. However, if we experience major delays in the future or other problems, such as inferior quality and insufficient quantity of product, any one or a combination of these factors may harm our business and results of operations. The inability of our contract manufacturers to provide us with adequate supplies of our products or the loss of one or more of our contract manufacturers may cause a delay in our ability to fulfill orders while we obtain a replacement manufacturer and may harm our business and results of operations. In particular, we currently subcontract manufacturing of our products to a single contract manufacturer. If our arrangement with this single source of hardware assembly was terminated or otherwise impaired, and we were not able to engage another contract manufacturer in a timely manner, our business, financial condition and results of operation could be adversely affected. If the demand for our products grows, we will need to increase our raw material and component purchases, contract manufacturing capacity and internal test and quality control functions. Any disruptions in product flow may limit our revenue, may harm our competitive position and may result in additional costs or cancellation of orders by our customers. 18 Our business could suffer if there are any interruptions or delays in the supply of hardware components from our third-party sources We currently purchase several hardware components used in the assembly of our products from a number of single or limited sources. Lead times for these components vary significantly. The unavailability of suitable components, any interruption or delay in the supply of any of these hardware components or the inability to procure a similar component from alternate sources at acceptable prices within a reasonable time, may delay the assembly of our products and our ability to fulfill sales and, hence, our revenues, and may harm our business and results of operations. It is difficult to predict our future operating results because we have an unpredictable sales cycle Our products have a lengthy sales cycle and the timing of our revenue is difficult to predict. Historically, our sales cycle has tended to lengthen as our products become increasingly complex. Also, as our distribution strategy is focused on a channel model, utilizing value-added resellers, distributors and systems integrators, the level of variability in the length of sales cycle across transactions has increased and made it more difficult to predict the timing of many of our sales transactions. Sales of our products require us to educate potential customers in their use and benefits. Sales of our products are subject to delays from the lengthy internal budgeting, approval and competitive evaluation processes that large enterprises and governmental entities may require. For example, customers frequently begin by evaluating our products on a limited basis and devote time and resources to testing our products before they decide whether or not to purchase. Customers may also defer orders as a result of anticipated releases of new products or enhancements by our competitors or us. As a result, our products have an unpredictable sales cycle that contributes to the uncertainty of our future operating results. We may not be able to sustain or develop new distribution relationships, and a reduction or delay in sales to significant distribution partners could hurt our business We sell our products and services through multiple distribution channels in the United States and internationally, including leading industry distributors, value-added resellers, systems integrators, service providers and other indirect channel partners. We have a limited number of agreements with companies in these channels, and we may not be able to increase our number of distribution relationships or maintain our existing relationships. Recruiting and retaining qualified channel partners and training them in our technologies requires significant time and resources. These channel partners may also market, sell and support products and services that are competitive with ours and may devote more resources to the marketing, sales and support of such competitive products. Our indirect sales channel structure could subject us to lawsuits, potential liability, and reputational harm if, for example, any of our channel partners misrepresent the functionality of our products or services to customers or violate laws or our corporate policies. If we are unable to establish or maintain our indirect sales channels, our business and results of operations will be harmed. In addition, two worldwide distributors of our products accounted for 32.2% of our total net revenue for fiscal year 2024. A substantial reduction or delay in sales of our products to these distribution partners, if not replaced by sales to other indirect channel partners and distributors, could harm our business, operating results and financial condition. Reliance on fulfillment at the end of the quarter could cause our revenue for the applicable period to fall below expected levels As a result of customer buying patterns and the efforts of our sales force and channel partners to meet or exceed their sales objectives, we have historically received a substantial portion of sales orders and generated a substantial portion of revenue during the last few weeks of each fiscal quarter. In addition, any significant interruption in our information technology systems, which manage critical functions such as order processing, revenue recognition, financial forecasts, inventory and supply chain management, and trade compliance reviews, could result in delayed order fulfillment and decreased revenue for that fiscal quarter. If expected revenue at the end of any fiscal quarter is delayed for any reason, including the failure of anticipated purchase orders to materialize, our third party contract manufacturers’ inability to manufacture and ship products prior to fiscal quarter-end to fulfill purchase orders received near the end of the fiscal quarter, our failure to manage inventory to meet demand, our inability to release new products on schedule, any failure of our systems related to order review and processing, or any delays in shipments based on trade compliance requirements, our revenue for that quarter could fall below our expectations, resulting in a decline in the trading price of our common stock. Our operating results are exposed to risks associated with international commerce As our international sales increase, our operating results become more exposed to international operating risks. Additionally, our international sales and operations are subject to a number of risks, including the following: • greater difficulty in enforcing contracts and accounts receivable collection and longer collection periods; • the uncertainty of protection for intellectual property rights in some countries; 19 • greater risk of unexpected changes in regulatory practices, tariffs, and tax laws and treaties; • risks associated with trade restrictions and foreign legal requirements, including the importation, certification, and localization of our products required in foreign countries; • greater risk of a failure of foreign employees, partners, distributors, and resellers to comply with both U.S. and foreign laws, including antitrust regulations, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and any trade regulations ensuring fair trade practices; • heightened risk of unfair or corrupt business practices in certain geographies and of improper or fraudulent sales arrangements that may impact financial results and result in restatements of, or irregularities in, financial statements; • increased expenses incurred in establishing and maintaining office space and equipment for our international operations; • greater difficulty in recruiting local experienced personnel, and the costs and expenses associated with such activities; • management communication and integration problems resulting from cultural and geographic dispersion; • fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and foreign currencies in markets where we do business; • economic uncertainty around the world, including continued economic uncertainty as a result of sovereign debt issues in Europe; and • general economic and political conditions in these foreign markets. In addition, the impact of Brexit on EU-UK political, trade, economic and diplomatic relations continues to be uncertain and such impact may not be fully realized for several years or more. Continued uncertainty and friction may result in regulatory, operational, and cost challenges to our UK and global operations. We must hire and train experienced personnel to staff and manage our foreign operations. To the extent that we experience difficulties in recruiting, training, managing, and retaining an international staff, and specifically staff related to sales management and sales personnel, we may experience difficulties in sales productivity in foreign markets. We also enter into strategic distributor and reseller relationships with companies in certain international markets where we do not have a local presence. If we are not able to maintain successful strategic distributor relationships internationally or recruit additional companies to enter into strategic distributor relationships, our future success in these international markets could be limited. Business practices in the international markets that we serve may differ from those in the United States and may require us in the future to include terms other than our standard terms in customer contracts. We intend to continue expanding into international markets. These factors and other factors could harm our ability to gain future international revenues and, consequently, materially impact our business, operating results, and financial condition. The expansion of our existing international operations and entry into additional international markets will require significant management attention and financial resources. Our failure to successfully manage our international operations and the associated risks effectively could limit the future growth of our business. The average selling price of our products may decrease and our costs may increase, which may negatively impact revenues and profits It is possible that the average selling prices of our products will decrease in the future in response to competitive pricing pressures, increased sales discounts, including responses to inflationary pressures, new product introductions by us or our competitors, or other factors. Therefore, in order to maintain our profits, we must develop and introduce new products and product enhancements on a timely basis and continually reduce our product costs. Our failure to do so could cause our revenue and profits to decline, which would harm our business and results of operations. In addition, we may experience substantial period-to-period fluctuations in future operating results due to the erosion of our average selling prices. 20 Acquisitions present many risks and we may not realize the financial and strategic goals that are contemplated at the time of the transaction With respect to our past acquisitions, as well as any other future acquisitions we may undertake, we may find that the acquired businesses, products or technologies do not further our business strategy as expected, that we paid more than what the assets are later worth or that economic conditions change, all of which may generate future impairment charges. Our acquisitions may be viewed negatively by customers, financial markets or investors. There may be difficulty integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired business, and we may have difficulty retaining the key personnel of the acquired business. We may have difficulty in integrating the acquired technologies or products with our existing product lines. Our ongoing business and management’s attention may be disrupted or diverted by transition or integration issues and the complexity of managing geographically and culturally diverse locations. We may have difficulty maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies across locations. We may experience significant problems or liabilities associated with product quality, technology and other matters. Our inability to successfully operate and integrate newly-acquired businesses appropriately, effectively and in a timely manner, or to retain key personnel of any acquired business, could have a material adverse effect on our ability to take advantage of further growth in demand for application security and delivery solutions and other advances in technology, as well as on our revenues, gross margins and expenses. Strategic and Industry Risks Our success depends on our timely development of new software and systems products and features, market acceptance of new software and systems product offerings and proper management of the timing of the life cycle of our software and systems products The markets for our products and services are characterized by: • rapid technological change; • evolving industry standards; • consolidation of network and application functions into existing network infrastructure products; • requirements that our products interoperate with technologies from other vendors to enable ease of management; • fluctuations in customer demand; • changes in customer requirements; and • frequent new product and service introductions and enhancements. Our continued success depends on our ability to identify and develop new software and systems products and new features for our existing software and systems products, to meet the demands of these changes, and the acceptance of those products and features by our existing and target customers. In addition, our software and systems products must interoperate with our end customers’ IT infrastructure, including the expanding use of the cloud and hybrid cloud environments, which often have different specifications, deploy products from multiple vendors, and utilize multiple protocol standards. Our customers’ IT infrastructure is becoming more complex and we may be reliant on orchestration and interoperability with third party vendors on whom we are reliant for testing and support of new software and systems product versions and configurations. If we are unable to identify, develop and deploy new software and systems products and new product features on a timely basis, our business and results of operations may be harmed. The current development cycle for our software and systems products varies and has become increasingly complex due to the sophistication and the addressing of our customers' needs. The development timetable to commercial release and availability to our customers is uncertain, and the introduction of new products or product enhancements may shorten the life cycle of our existing products, or replace sales of some of our current products, thereby offsetting the benefit of even a successful product introduction, and may cause customers to defer purchasing our existing products in anticipation of the new products. This could harm our operating results by decreasing sales of our software and systems products, or increasing our inventory levels of older systems products and exposing us to greater risk of product obsolescence. We have also experienced, and may in the future experience, delays in developing and releasing new software and systems products and related product enhancements. This has led to, and may in the future lead to, delayed sales, increased expenses and lower quarterly revenue than anticipated. Also, in the development of our systems products, we have experienced delays in the prototyping, which in turn has led to delays in product introductions. In addition, complexity and difficulties in managing product transitions at the end-of-life stage of a product can create excess inventory of components associated with the outgoing product that can lead to increased expenses. Any or all of the above problems could materially harm our business and results of operations. 21 Our success depends on sales and continued innovation of our application security and delivery product lines We expect to derive a significant portion of our net revenues from the sale of our cloud, software and hardware application security and delivery product lines in the future. Implementation of our strategy depends upon these products being able to solve critical network availability, performance and security problems for our customers. If our products are unable to solve these problems for our customers or if we are unable to sustain the high levels of innovation in product feature sets needed to maintain leadership in what will continue to be a competitive market environment, our business and results of operations will be harmed. We operate in an industry of evolving standards and rapid technological advancements. If our competitors are able to develop and implement compelling technological innovations or features into their product offerings or services more rapidly or successfully than we do in the future, our ability to compete effectively may be impacted which could negatively impact our business and results of operations. Issues related to the development and use of artificial intelligence ("AI") could give rise to legal and/or regulatory action, damage our reputation or otherwise materially harm our business We currently incorporate AI technology in certain of our products and services and in our business operations. Our research and development of such technology remains ongoing. AI presents risks, challenges, and potential unintended consequences that could affect our and our customers’ adoption and use of this technology. AI solutions may use algorithms, datasets, or training methodologies that are incomplete, reflect biases, or contain other flaws or deficiencies. Additionally, AI technologies are complex and rapidly evolving, and we face significant competition in the market and from other companies regarding such technologies. While we aim to develop and use AI responsibly and attempt to identify and mitigate ethical and legal issues presented by its use, we may be unsuccessful in identifying or resolving issues before they arise. The AI-related legal and regulatory landscape remains uncertain and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Our obligations to comply with the evolving legal and regulatory landscape could entail significant costs or limit our ability to incorporate certain AI capabilities into our offerings. AI-related issues, deficiencies and/or failures could (i) give rise to legal and/or regulatory action, including with respect to proposed legislation regulating AI in jurisdictions such as the European Union and others, and as a result of new applications of existing data protection, privacy, intellectual property, and other laws; (ii) damage our reputation; or (iii) otherwise materially harm our business. Our business could be adversely impacted by conditions affecting the markets in which we compete A substantial portion of our business depends on the demand for information technology by large enterprise customers and service providers. We are dependent upon the overall economic health of our current and prospective customers. International, national, regional and local economic conditions, such as recessionary economic cycles, protracted economic slowdown or further deterioration of the economy could adversely impact demand for our products. Demand for our products and services depends substantially upon the general demand for application security and delivery solutions, which fluctuates based on numerous factors, including capital spending levels and growth of our current and prospective customers, as well as general economic conditions. Moreover, the purchase of our products is often discretionary and may involve a significant commitment of capital and other resources. Future economic projections for the information technology sector are uncertain as companies continue to reassess their spending for technology projects and embrace a range of consumption models from physical systems to software, SaaS-based and managed services solutions. As a result, spending priorities for our current and future customers may vary and demand for our products and services may be impacted. In addition, customer buying patterns are changing over time and more customers seek to rent software on a subscription basis and to reduce their total cost of ownership. These evolving business models could lead to changes in demand and licensing strategies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Industry consolidation may result in increased competition Some of our competitors have made acquisitions or entered into partnerships or other strategic relationships to offer a more comprehensive solution than they had previously offered. We have also entered into large, strategic partnerships to enhance our competitive position in the marketplace. As technology companies attempt to strengthen or maintain their market positions in the evolving application delivery, mobility, cloud networking and cloud platform markets, these companies continue to seek to deliver comprehensive solutions to end users and combine enterprise-level hardware and software solutions that may compete with our solutions and which could negatively impact our partnerships. These consolidators or potential consolidators may have significantly greater financial, technical and other resources than we do and may be better positioned to acquire and offer complementary products and services. The companies resulting from these possible combinations may create more compelling product and service offerings and be able to offer greater pricing flexibility or sales and marketing support for such offerings than we can. These heightened competitive pressures could result in a loss of customers or a reduction in our revenues or revenue growth rates, all of which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 22 We may not be able to compete effectively in the application security and delivery market The markets we serve are rapidly evolving and highly competitive, and we expect competition to persist and intensify in the future. As we expand our reach and role into a broader set of multicloud solutions, the companies that we consider competitors evolves as well. In addition to server load balancing, traffic management, and other functions normally associated with application delivery, our suite of solutions has expanded our addressable market into security, and policy management, where we compete with a number of companies focused on niche areas of application security. We expect to continue to face additional competition as new participants enter our markets. As we continue to expand globally, we may see new competitors in different geographic regions. In addition, larger companies with significant resources, brand recognition, and sales channels may form alliances with or acquire competing application services solutions from other companies and emerge as significant competitors. Potential competitors may bundle their products or incorporate an Internet traffic management or security component into existing products in a manner that discourages users from purchasing our products. Any of these circumstances may limit our opportunities for growth and negatively impact our financial performance. Misuse of our products could harm our reputation Our products may be misused by end-customers or third parties that obtain access to our products. For example, our products could be used to censor private access to certain information on the Internet. Such use of our products for censorship could result in negative publicity and damage to our reputation.  In addition, as many of our products are subject to export control regulations, diversion of our products to restricted third parties by others could result in investigations, penalties, fines, trade restrictions and negative publicity that could damage our reputation and materially impact our business, operating results, and financial condition. Legal and Regulatory Risks Our failure to adequately protect personal information could have a material adverse effect on our business A wide variety of  local, state, national, and international laws, directives and regulations apply to the collection, use, retention, protection, disclosure, transfer, and other processing of personal data. These data protection and privacy-related laws and regulations continue to evolve and may result in ever-increasing regulatory and public scrutiny and escalating levels of enforcement and sanctions and increased costs of compliance. Certain safe-harbor exemptions upon which the Company relies for data transfers have been challenged and may no longer be available to us in the future. Our failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, or to protect such data, could result in enforcement action against us, including fines, imprisonment of company officials and public censure, claims for damages by end-customers and other affected individuals, damage to our reputation and loss of goodwill (both in relation to existing end-customers and prospective end-customers), any of which could have a material adverse effect on our operations, financial performance, and business. Changing definitions of personal data and personal information, within the European Union, the United States, and elsewhere, especially relating to classification of IP addresses, machine identification, location data, and other information, may limit or inhibit our ability to operate or expand our business, including limiting strategic partnerships that may involve the sharing of data. The evolving data protection regulatory environment may require significant management attention and financial resources to analyze and modify our IT infrastructure to meet these changing requirements all of which could reduce our operating margins and impact our operating results and financial condition. 23 A portion of our revenue is generated by sales to government entities, which are subject to a number of challenges and risks Sales to U.S. and foreign, federal, state, and local governmental agency end-customers account for a significant portion of our revenues and we may in the future increase sales to government entities. Sales to government entities are subject to a number of risks. Selling to government entities can be highly competitive, expensive, and time consuming, often requiring significant upfront time and expense without any assurance that these efforts will generate a sale. The substantial majority of our sales to date to government entities have been made indirectly through our channel partners. Government certification requirements for products like ours may change, thereby restricting our ability to sell into the federal government sector until we have attained the revised certification. Government demand and payment for our products and services may be impacted by public sector budgetary cycles and funding authorizations, with funding reductions or delays adversely affecting public sector demand for our products and services. Government entities may have statutory, contractual or other legal rights to terminate contracts with our distributors and resellers for convenience or due to a default, and any such termination may adversely impact our future operating results. Governments routinely investigate and audit government contractors’ administrative processes, and any unfavorable audit could result in the government refusing to continue buying our products and services, a reduction of revenue or fines or civil or criminal liability if the audit uncovers improper or illegal activities, which could adversely impact our operating results in a material way. Finally, for purchases by the U.S. government, the government may require certain products to be manufactured in the United States and other relatively high cost manufacturing locations, and we may not manufacture all products in locations that meet the requirements of the U.S. government, affecting our ability to sell these products to the U.S. government. We face litigation risks We are a party to lawsuits in the normal course of our business. Litigation in general, and intellectual property and securities litigation in particular, can be expensive, lengthy and disruptive to normal business operations. Moreover, the results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict. Responding to lawsuits has been, and will likely continue to be, expensive and time-consuming for us. An unfavorable resolution of these lawsuits could adversely affect our business, results of operations or financial condition. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, and our products may infringe on the intellectual property rights of third parties We rely on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, and restrictions on disclosure of confidential and proprietary information to protect our intellectual property rights. Despite our efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy or otherwise obtain and use our products or technology. Monitoring unauthorized use of our products is difficult, and we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken will prevent misappropriation of our technology, particularly in foreign countries where the laws may not protect our proprietary rights as fully as in the United States. Our industry is characterized by the existence of a large number of patents and frequent claims and related litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. In the ordinary course of our business, we are involved in disputes and licensing discussions with others regarding their claimed proprietary rights and cannot provide assurance that we will always successfully defend ourselves against such claims and such matters are subject to many uncertainties and outcomes are not predictable with assurance. We expect that infringement claims may increase as the number of products and competitors in our market increases and overlaps occur. Also, as we have gained greater visibility, market exposure and competitive success, we face a higher risk of being the subject of intellectual property infringement claims. If we are found to infringe the proprietary rights of others, or if we otherwise settle such claims, we could be compelled to pay damages or royalties and either obtain a license to those intellectual property rights or alter our products so that they no longer infringe upon such proprietary rights. Any license could be very expensive to obtain or may not be available at all or may require us to make royalty payments which could adversely affect gross margins in future periods. The actual liability in any such matters may be materially different from our estimate, if any, which could result in the need to adjust the liability and record additional expenses. Similarly, changing our products or processes to avoid infringing upon the rights of others may be costly or impractical. In addition, we have initiated, and may in the future initiate, claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights, or to determine the scope and validity of our proprietary rights or those of our competitors. Any of these claims, whether claims that we are infringing the proprietary rights of others, or vice versa, with or without merit, may be time-consuming, result in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel or require us to cease using infringing technology, develop non-infringing technology or enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Further, our license agreements typically require us to indemnify our customers, distributors and resellers for infringement actions related to our technology, which could cause us to become involved in infringement claims made against our customers, distributors or resellers. Any of the above-described 24 circumstances relating to intellectual property rights disputes could result in our business and results of operations being harmed. We incorporate open source software into our products. Although we monitor our use of open source closely, the terms of many open source licenses have not been interpreted by U.S. courts, and there is a risk that such licenses could be construed in a manner that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. We could also be subject to similar conditions or restrictions should there be any changes in the licensing terms of the open source software incorporated into our products. In either event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties in order to continue offering our products, to re-engineer our products or to discontinue the sale of our products in the event re-engineering cannot be accomplished on a timely or successful basis, any of which could adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Many of our products include intellectual property licensed from third parties. In the future, it may be necessary to renew licenses for third party intellectual property or obtain new licenses for other technology. These third party licenses may not be available to us on acceptable terms, if at all. The inability to obtain certain licenses, or litigation regarding the interpretation or enforcement of license rights and related intellectual property issues, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Furthermore, we license some third party intellectual property on a non-exclusive basis and this may limit our ability to protect our intellectual property rights in our products. We are subject to governmental export and import controls that could subject us to liability or impair our ability to compete in international markets Our products are subject to U.S. export controls and may be exported outside the U.S. only with the required level of export license or through an export license exception because we incorporate encryption technology into our products. In addition, various countries regulate the import of certain encryption technology and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our products or our customers’ ability to implement our products in those countries. Changes in our products or changes in export and import regulations may create delays in the introduction of our products in international markets, prevent our customers with international operations from deploying our products throughout their global systems or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our products to certain countries altogether. Any change in export or import regulations or related legislation, shift in approach to the enforcement or scope of existing regulations or change in the countries, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in decreased use of our products by, or in our decreased ability to export or sell our products to, existing or potential customers with international operations. Any decreased use of our products or limitation on our ability to export or sell our products would likely adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. Changes in governmental regulations could negatively affect our revenues Many of our products are subject to various regulations promulgated by the United States and various foreign governments including, but not limited to, environmental regulations and regulations implementing export license requirements and restrictions on the import or export of some technologies, especially encryption technology. Changes in governmental regulation and our inability or failure to obtain required approvals, permits or registrations could harm our international and domestic sales and adversely affect our revenues, business and operations. The SEC requires us, as a public company that uses certain raw materials considered to be “conflict minerals” in our products, to report publicly on the extent to which “conflict minerals” are in our supply chain. As a provider of hardware end-products, we are several steps removed from the mining, smelting, or refining of any conflict minerals. Accordingly, our ability to determine with certainty the origin and chain of custody of these raw materials is limited. Our relationships with customers, suppliers, and investors could suffer if we are unable to describe our products as “conflict-free.” We may also face increased costs in complying with conflict minerals disclosure requirements. Financial Risks We may have exposure to greater than anticipated tax liabilities Our provision for income taxes is subject to volatility and could be affected by changes in our business operations, including acquisitions, new offerings, and changes in the jurisdictions in which we operate. The provision for income taxes may also be impacted by changes in stock-based compensation, changes in the research and development tax credit laws, earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have lower statutory rates and being higher than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have higher statutory rates, transfer pricing adjustments, not meeting the terms and conditions of tax holidays or incentives, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in actual results versus our 25 estimates, or changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof, including changes to the tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals. In addition, we may be subject to examination of our income tax returns by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. While we regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes from such examinations and the adequacy of our provision for income taxes, there can be no assurance that such provision is sufficient and that a determination by a tax authority will not have an adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. The Company operates in countries that have enacted, or have committed to enact, a minimum tax in accordance with the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development’s Pillar Two framework, which may increase our tax liability in future years. We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, which could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations Our sales contracts are denominated in U.S. dollars, and therefore, substantially all of our revenue is not subject to foreign currency risk. However, a strengthening of the U.S. dollar could increase the real cost of our solutions to our end customers outside of the United States, which could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. In addition, an increasing portion of our operating expenses is incurred outside the United States, is denominated in foreign currencies, and is subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. If we become more exposed to currency fluctuations and are not able to successfully hedge against the risks associated with currency fluctuations, our operating results could be adversely affected. To date, we have not entered into any hedging arrangements with respect to foreign currency risk or other derivative instruments. Changes in financial accounting standards may cause adverse unexpected revenue fluctuations and affect our reported results of operations A change in accounting policies can have a significant effect on our reported results and may even affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New pronouncements and varying interpretations of existing pronouncements have occurred with frequency and may occur in the future. Changes to existing rules, or changes to the interpretations of existing rules, could lead to changes in our accounting practices, and such changes could adversely affect our reported financial results or the way we conduct our business. If we are unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting, the accuracy and timeliness of our financial reporting may be adversely affected As a public company, we are required to design and maintain proper and effective internal controls over financial reporting and to report any material weaknesses in such internal controls. Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 requires that we evaluate and determine the effectiveness of our internal controls over financial reporting and provide a management report on the internal controls over financial reporting, which must be attested to by our independent registered public accounting firm. We have an ongoing program to review the design of our internal controls framework in keeping with changes in business needs, implement necessary changes to our controls design and test the system and process controls necessary to comply with these requirements. If in the future, our internal controls over financial reporting are determined to be not effective resulting in a material weakness, investor perceptions regarding the reliability of our financial statements may be adversely affected which could cause a decline in the market price of our stock and otherwise negatively affect our liquidity and financial condition. Risks Related to our Common Stock Our quarterly and annual operating results may fluctuate in future periods, which may cause our stock price to fluctuate Our quarterly and annual operating results have varied significantly in the past and could vary significantly in the future, which makes it difficult for us to predict our future operating results. Our operating results may fluctuate due to a variety of factors, many of which are outside of our control, including the changing and recently volatile U.S. and global economic environment, which may cause our stock price to fluctuate. In particular, we anticipate that the size of customer orders may increase as we continue to focus on larger business accounts. A delay in the recognition of revenue, even from just one account, may have a significant negative impact on our results of operations for a given period. In the past, a majority of our sales have been realized near the end of a quarter. Accordingly, a delay in an anticipated sale past the end of a particular quarter may negatively impact our results of operations for that quarter, or in some cases, that fiscal year. Additionally, we have exposure to the credit risks of some of our customers. Although we have programs in place that are designed to monitor and mitigate the associated risk, there can be no assurance that such programs will be effective in reducing our credit risks adequately. We monitor individual payment capability in granting credit arrangements, seek to limit the total credit to amounts we believe our customers can pay and maintain reserves we believe are adequate to cover exposure for potential losses. If there is a 26 deterioration of a major customer’s creditworthiness or actual defaults are higher than expected, future losses, if incurred, could harm our business and have a material adverse effect on our operating results. Further, our operating results may be below the expectations of securities analysts and investors in future quarters or years. Our failure to meet these expectations will likely harm the market price of our common stock. Such a decline could occur, and has occurred in the past, even when we have met our publicly stated revenue and/or earnings guidance. Anti-takeover provisions could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the price, rights, preferences, privileges and restrictions, including voting rights, of those shares without any further vote or action by the shareholders. The rights of the holders of common stock may be subject to, and may be adversely affected by, the rights of the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. The issuance of preferred stock may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing a change of control of our company without further action by our shareholders and may adversely affect the voting and other rights of the holders of common stock. Further, certain provisions of our bylaws, including a provision limiting the ability of shareholders to raise matters at a meeting of shareholders without giving advance notice, may have the effect of delaying or preventing changes in control or management of our company, which could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Similarly, state anti-takeover laws in the State of Washington related to corporate takeovers may prevent or delay a change of control of our company. Our stock price could be volatile, particularly during times of economic uncertainty and volatility in domestic and international stock markets Our stock price has been volatile and has fluctuated significantly in the past. The trading price of our stock is likely to continue to be volatile and subject to fluctuations in the future. Some of the factors that could significantly affect the market price of our stock include: • Actual or anticipated variations in operating and financial results; • Analyst reports or recommendations; • Rumors, announcements or press articles regarding our competitors’ operations, management, organization, financial condition or financial statements; and • Other events or factors, many of which are beyond our control. The stock market in general and the market for technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations. These fluctuations have often been unrelated or disproportionate to operating performance.  The fluctuations may continue in the future and this could significantly impact the value of our stock and your investment. If securities or industry analysts publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, or discontinue publishing research about our business, the price and trading volume of our securities could decline The trading market for our common stock is influenced by the research and reports that industry or securities analysts publish about us, our business, our market or our competitors. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our common stock or publish inaccurate or unfavorable research about our business, the price of our securities would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of us or fail to publish reports on us regularly, demand for our securities could decrease, which might cause the price and trading volume of our securities to decline. General Risks Macroeconomic downturns or uncertainties may harm our industry, business, and results of operations We operate globally and as a result, our business, revenues, and profitability may be impacted by global macroeconomic conditions. Adverse macroeconomic conditions both in the U.S. and abroad, including, but not limited to, rising interest rates, inflationary pressures on goods and services, challenges in the financial and credit markets, labor shortages, supply chain disruptions, trade uncertainty, adverse changes in global taxation and tariffs, sanctions, outbreaks of pandemic diseases, political unrest and social strife, armed conflicts, or other impacts from the macroeconomic environment could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows through, among others, softer demand of our products and services as well as unfavorable increases to our operating costs, which could negatively impact our profitability. 27 We face risks associated with having operations and employees located in Israel We have offices and employees located in Israel. As a result, political, economic, and military conditions in Israel and the surrounding region directly affect our operations. The future of peace efforts between Israel and its neighbors in the Middle East remains uncertain. There has been a significant increase in hostilities and political unrest in Israel and the surrounding region. The effects of these hostilities and violence on the Israeli economy and our operations in Israel are unclear, and we cannot predict the effect on us of further increases in these hostilities or future armed conflict, political instability or violence in the region. In addition, many of our employees in Israel are obligated to perform annual reserve duty in the Israeli military and are subject to being called for active duty under emergency circumstances. We cannot predict the full impact of these conditions on us in the future, particularly if emergency circumstances or an escalation in the political situation occurs. If many of our employees in Israel are called for active duty for a significant period of time, our operations and our business could be disrupted and may not be able to function at full capacity. Current or future tensions and conflicts in the Middle East could adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Our business is subject to the risks of earthquakes, fire, power outages, floods, and other catastrophic events, and to interruption by man-made problems such as terrorism A significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, a fire, a flood, or a significant power outage could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. We have an administrative and product development office and a third party contract manufacturer located in the San Francisco Bay Area, a region known for seismic activity. In addition, natural disasters could affect our supply chain, manufacturing vendors, or logistics providers’ ability to provide materials and perform services such as manufacturing products or assisting with shipments on a timely basis. In the event our or our service providers’ information technology systems or manufacturing or logistics abilities are hindered by any of the events discussed above, shipments could be delayed, resulting in missed financial targets, such as revenue and shipment targets, for a particular quarter. In addition, cyber-attacks, acts of terrorism, or other geopolitical unrest could cause disruptions in our business or the business of our supply chain, manufacturers, logistics providers, partners, or end-customers or the economy as a whole. Any disruption in the business of our supply chain, manufacturers, logistics providers, partners or end-customers that impacts sales at the end of a fiscal quarter could have a significant adverse impact on our quarterly results. All of the aforementioned risks may be further increased if the disaster recovery plans for us and our suppliers prove to be inadequate. To the extent that any of the above should result in delays or cancellations of customer orders, or the delay in the manufacture, deployment or shipment of our products, our business, financial condition and operating results would be adversely affected. Climate change and associated regulation may have an impact on our business Risks related to climate change are increasing in both impact and type of risk. We believe there will not be significant near-term impacts to our offices worldwide due to climate change, but long-term impacts remain unknown. However, there may be business operational risk due to the significant impacts climate change could pose to our employees’ lives, our supply chain, or electrical power availability from climate-related weather events. Rapidly changing customer requirements to reduce carbon emissions also presents a risk of loss of business if we are not able to meet criteria. In addition, we are subject to a range of new and anticipated climate-related and sustainability-focused laws and regulations, including the E.U.’s Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive. To meet the compliance requirements of these new regulations, we may incur extra costs to implement more internal controls, processes, and procedures, in order to assist in the oversight responsibilities for our management and board of directors. Failure to comply with these regulations or requirements could result in investigations, sanctions, enforcement actions, fines, or litigation, potentially harming our business, operating results, or financial condition. In addition to other risks listed in this “Risk Factors” section, factors that may affect our operating results include, but are not limited to: • fluctuations in demand for our products and services due to changing market conditions, pricing conditions, technology evolution, seasonality, or other changes in the global economic environment; • changes or fluctuations in sales and implementation cycles for our products and services; • changes in the mix of our products and services, including increases in SaaS and other subscription-based offerings; • changes in the growth rate of the application delivery market; • reduced visibility into our customers’ spending and implementation plans; • reductions in customers’ budgets for data center and other IT purchases or delays in these purchases; • changes in end-user customer attach rates and renewal rates for our services; 28 • fluctuations in our gross margins, including the factors described herein, which may contribute to such fluctuations; • our ability to control costs, including operating expenses, the costs of hardware and software components, and other manufacturing costs; • our ability to develop, introduce and gain market acceptance of new products, technologies and services, and our success in new and evolving markets; • any significant changes in the competitive environment, including the entry of new competitors or the substantial discounting of products or services; • the timing and execution of product transitions or new product introductions, and related inventory costs; • variations in sales channels, product costs, or mix of products sold; • our ability to establish and manage our distribution channels, and the effectiveness of any changes we make to our distribution model; • the ability of our contract manufacturers and suppliers to provide component parts, hardware platforms and other products in a timely manner; • benefits anticipated from our investments in sales, marketing, product development, manufacturing or other activities; • impacts on our overall tax rate caused by any reorganization in our corporate structure; • changes in tax laws or regulations, or other accounting rules; and • general economic conditions, both domestically and in our foreign markets.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933. These statements include, but are not limited to, statements about our plans, objectives, expectations, strategies, intentions or other characterizations of future events or circumstances and are generally identified by the words “expects,” “anticipates,” “intends,” “plans,” “believes,” “seeks,” “estimates,” and similar expressions. These forward-looking statements are based on current information and expectations and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed under “Item 1A. Risk Factors” herein and in other documents we file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We assume no obligation to revise or update any such forward-looking statements. Overview F5 is a leading provider of multicloud application security and delivery solutions which enable our customers to develop, deploy, operate, secure, and govern applications in any architecture, from on-premises to the public cloud. Our enterprise-grade application services are available as cloud-based, software-as-a-service, and software-only solutions optimized for multicloud environments, with modules that can run independently, or as part of an integrated solution on our high-performance appliances. We market and sell our products primarily through multiple indirect sales channels in the Americas; Europe, the Middle East, and Africa ("EMEA"); and the Asia Pacific region ("APAC"). Enterprise customers (Fortune 1000 or Business Week Global 1000 companies) in the technology, telecommunications, financial services, transportation, education, manufacturing, and health care industries, along with government customers, continue to make up the largest percentage of our customer base. Our management team monitors and analyzes a number of key performance indicators in order to manage our business and evaluate our financial and operating performance on a consolidated basis. Those indicators include: • Revenues . Our revenue is derived from the sales of both global services and products. Our global services revenue includes annual maintenance contracts, training and consulting services. The majority of our product revenues are derived from sales of our application security and delivery solutions including our BIG-IP software and systems, F5 NGINX software, and our F5 Distributed Cloud Services offerings. Our BIG-IP software solutions are sold both on a perpetual license and a subscription basis. We sell F5 NGINX on a subscription basis. F5 Distributed Cloud Services provides security, multicloud networking, and edge-based computing solutions and are offered on a subscription basis, under a unified software-as-a-service ("SaaS") platform. We monitor the sales mix of our revenues within each reporting period. We believe customer acceptance rates of our new products, feature enhancements and consumption models are indicators of future trends. We also consider overall revenue concentration by geographic region as an additional indicator of current and future trends. In fiscal 2023 and as we entered fiscal 2024, continued customer budget constraints brought on by uncertainties in the macroeconomic environment led to delays in customer purchase decisions. The impact of these buying patterns led to softer demand for both our software and systems products and services. Over the course of fiscal 2024, we have seen customer demand stabilizing, however, we will continue to closely monitor the macroeconomic environment and its impacts on our business. • Cost of revenues and gross margins. We strive to control our cost of revenues and thereby maintain our gross margins. Significant items impacting cost of revenues are hardware costs paid to our contract manufacturers, third-party software license fees, software-as-a-service infrastructure costs, amortization of developed technology and personnel and overhead expenses. In addition, factors such as sales price, product and services mix, inventory obsolescence, returns, component price increases, warranty costs, and global supply chain constraints could significantly impact our gross margins. • Operating expenses. Operating expenses are substantially driven by personnel and related overhead expenses. Existing headcount and future hiring plans are the predominant factors in analyzing and forecasting future operating expense trends. Other significant operating expenses that we monitor include marketing and promotions, travel, professional fees, computer costs related to the development of new products and provision of services, facilities and depreciation expenses. • Liquidity and cash flows. Our financial condition remains strong with significant cash and investments. The increase in cash and investments for fiscal year 2024 was primarily due to cash provided by operating activities of $792.4 million, partially offset by $500.6 million of cash used for the repurchase of outstanding common stock under our stock repurchase program and the payment of related excise taxes. Going forward, we believe the primary driver of cash flows will be net income from operations. We will continue to evaluate possible acquisitions of, or investments in businesses, products, or technologies that we believe are strategic, which may require the use of cash. Additionally, on January 31, 2020, we entered into a Revolving Credit Agreement (the "Revolving Credit Agreement") that provides for a senior unsecured revolving credit facility in an 35 aggregate principal amount of $350.0 million (the "Revolving Credit Facility"). We have the option to increase commitments under the Revolving Credit Facility from time to time, subject to certain conditions, by up to $150.0 million. As of September 30, 2024, there were no outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility, and we had available borrowing capacity of $350.0 million. • Balance sheet. We view cash, short-term and long-term investments, deferred revenue, accounts receivable balances and days sales outstanding as important indicators of our financial health. Deferred revenues continued to increase in fiscal 2024 due to an increase in deferred subscription contracts, including SaaS and maintenance associated with licensed-based subscriptions, which includes sales as part of our Flex Consumption Program. Our days sales outstanding for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2024 was 47. Days sales outstanding is calculated by dividing ending accounts receivable by revenue per day for a given quarter. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe that, of our significant accounting policies, which are described in Note 1 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements, the following accounting policy involves a greater degree of judgment and complexity. Accordingly, we believe the following policy is the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our consolidated financial condition and results of operations. Revenue Recognition. We sell products through distributors, resellers, and directly to end users. Revenue related to our contracts with customers is recognized by following a five-step process: • Identify the contract(s) with a customer. Evidence of a contract generally consists of a purchase order issued pursuant to the terms and conditions of a distributor, reseller or end user agreement. • Identify the performance obligations in the contract. Performance obligations are identified in our contracts and include hardware, hardware-based software, software-only solutions, cloud-based subscription services as well as a broad range of service performance obligations including consulting, training, installation and maintenance. • Determine the transaction price. The purchase price stated in an agreed upon purchase order is generally representative of the transaction price. We offer several programs in which customers are eligible for certain levels of rebates if certain conditions are met. When determining the transaction price, we consider the effects of any variable consideration. • Allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract. The transaction price in a contract is allocated based upon the relative standalone selling price of each distinct performance obligation identified in the contract. • Recognize revenue when (or as) the entity satisfies a performance obligation. We satisfy performance obligations either over time or at a point in time as discussed in further detail below. Revenue is recognized at the time the related performance obligation is satisfied by transferring control of promised products and services to a customer. Revenue is recognized net of any taxes collected, which are subsequently remitted to governmental authorities. Shipping and handling fees charged to our customers are recognized as product revenue in the period shipped and the related costs for providing these services are recorded as a cost of sale. The following is a description of the principal activities from which we generate revenue: Product Revenue from the sale of our hardware and perpetual software products is generally recognized at a point in time when the product has been fulfilled and the customer is obligated to pay for the product. We also offer several products by subscription, either through term-based license agreements or as SaaS offerings. Revenue for term-based license agreements is recognized at a point in time when we deliver the software license to the customer and the subscription term has commenced. For our SaaS offerings, revenue is recognized ratably as the services are provided. Hardware, including the software run on those devices is considered systems revenue. Perpetual or subscription software offerings that are, or have the ability to be deployed on a standalone basis, along with our SaaS offerings, are considered software revenue. When rights of return are present and we cannot estimate returns, revenue is recognized when such rights of return lapse. Payment terms to customers are generally net 30 days to net 60 days. 36 Global Services Revenues for post-contract customer support ("PCS") are recognized on a straight-line basis over the service contract term. PCS includes a limited period of telephone support, updates, repair or replacement of any failed product or component that fails during the term of the agreement, bug fixes and rights to upgrades, when and if available. Consulting services are customarily billed at fixed hourly rates, plus out-of-pocket expenses, and revenues are recognized as the consulting is completed. Similarly, training revenue is recognized as the training is completed. Flexible Consumption Program We enter into certain contracts with customers, including flexible consumption programs and multi-year subscriptions, with non-standard terms and conditions. Management assesses contractual terms in these agreements to identify and evaluate performance obligations. Management allocates consideration to each performance obligation based on relative fair value using standalone selling price and recognizes associated revenue as control is transferred to the customer. Contract Acquisition Costs Sales commissions earned by our sales force are considered incremental and recoverable costs of obtaining a contract with a customer. Sales commissions on the initial PCS for hardware, perpetual software, and for term-based license subscription offerings are deferred and then amortized as an expense on a straight-line basis over the period of benefit. Sales commissions on SaaS subscription offerings are deferred and then amortized as an expense on a straight-line basis over the period of benefit. Management has determined the period of benefit to be 4.5 years for initial PCS on hardware and perpetual software offerings, and 3 to 5 years for subscription offerings. Impact of Current Macroeconomic Conditions Our overall performance depends in part on worldwide economic and geopolitical conditions and their impacts on customer behavior. Uncertain economic conditions, including inflation, higher interest rates, slower growth, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, and other changes in economic conditions, may adversely affect our results of operations and financial performance. For further discussion of the potential impacts of recent macroeconomic events on our business, financial condition, and operating results, see Part I, Item 1A titled “Risk Factors.” Results of Operations The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements, related notes and risk factors included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Net Revenues. Total net revenues increased 0.1% in fiscal year 2024 from fiscal year 2023, compared to an increase of 4.4% in fiscal year 2023 from the prior year. Overall revenue growth for the year ended September 30, 2024 was due to an increase in service revenue driven by continued growth in maintenance contract renewals, partially offset by a decrease in product revenue. International revenues represented 47.1%, 47.1% and 44.8% of net revenues in fiscal years 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Net Product Revenues. Net product revenues decreased 4.6% in fiscal year 2024 from fiscal year 2023, compared to an increase of 1.3% in fiscal year 2023 from the prior year. The decrease of $61.8 million in net product revenues for fiscal year 2024 was due to a decrease in systems sales, partially offset by an increase in software revenue primarily from packaged software sales. The increase of $17.5 million in net product revenues for fiscal year 2023 was due to growth in systems revenue. 37 The following presents net product revenues by systems and software (in thousands): Software Revenues. As a component of net product revenues, software revenues increased 10.8% in fiscal year 2024, and remained relatively flat in fiscal year 2023, compared from the prior year. The following presents software revenue by consumption model (in thousands): (1)    Subscriptions revenue includes revenue from SaaS and managed services and term-based subscriptions. Net Service Revenues. Net service revenues increased 4.4% in fiscal year 2024 from fiscal year 2023, compared to an increase of 7.2% in fiscal year 2023 from the prior year. The increase of $64.8 million in service revenue for fiscal year 2024 was the result of the renewal of maintenance agreements associated with perpetual offerings as customers continue to utilize their assets for longer periods of time, as well as the realization of price increases from prior periods. The increase of $99.8 million in service revenue for fiscal year 2023 was the result of increased purchases or renewals of maintenance contracts driven by delayed purchase decisions in new product purchases by our install base and additions to our installed base of products. In addition, we also began to see the benefits of price increases put in place in fiscal 2022. The following customers accounted for more than 10% of total net revenue: The following customers accounted for more than 10% of total receivables: 38 No other customers accounted for more than 10% of total net revenue or receivables. Cost of Net Product Revenues. Cost of net product revenues consist of finished products purchased from our contract manufacturers, manufacturing overhead, freight, warranty, provisions for excess and obsolete inventory, software-as-a-service infrastructure costs and amortization expenses in connection with developed technology from acquisitions. Cost of net product revenues decreased to $336.2 million in fiscal year 2024, down 10.4% from the prior year, primarily due to a decrease in systems revenue. Cost of net product revenues increased to $375.2 million in fiscal year 2023, up 17.4% from the prior year, primarily due to systems product revenue growth. In addition, we continued to experience component cost increases, expedite fees and other sourcing-related costs in fiscal 2023. Cost of Net Service Revenues. Cost of net service revenues consist of the salaries and related benefits of our professional services staff, travel, facilities and depreciation expenses. Cost of net service revenues as a percentage of net service revenues decreased to 14.3% in fiscal year 2024 compared to 14.8% in fiscal year 2023 and 16.0% in fiscal year 2022. Professional services headcount at the end of fiscal 2024 increased to 1,093 from 1,046 at the end of fiscal 2023. Professional services headcount at the end of fiscal year 2023 decreased to 1,046 from 1,091 at the end of fiscal 2022. In addition, cost of net service revenues included stock-based compensation expense of $22.7 million, $22.2 million and $21.9 million for fiscal years 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Sales and Marketing. Sales and marketing expenses consist of the salaries, commissions and related benefits of our sales and marketing staff, the costs of our marketing programs, including public relations, advertising and trade shows, travel, facilities, and depreciation expenses. Sales and marketing expense decreased $45.9 million, or 5.2% in fiscal year 2024 from the prior year, as compared to a year-over-year decrease of $48.4 million, or 5.2% in fiscal 2023. The decrease in sales and marketing expense for fiscal year 2024 was primarily due to a decrease of $34.8 million in personnel costs, largely driven by a reduction in workforce as part of the third quarter of fiscal 2023 restructuring plan. Sales and marketing headcount at the end of fiscal year 2024 decreased to 2,165 from 2,170 at the end of fiscal year 2023. In fiscal year 2023, sales and marketing expense 39 included a decrease of $18.4 million in personnel costs, as well as a decrease of $13.2 million in marketing spend as part of cost reductions implemented by management. Sales and marketing headcount at the end of fiscal year 2023 decreased to 2,170 from 2,500 at the end of fiscal year 2022. Sales and marketing expense included stock-based compensation expense of $84.5 million, $96.5 million and $104.3 million for fiscal years 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Research and Development. Research and development expenses consist of the salaries and related benefits of our product development personnel, prototype materials and other expenses related to the development of new and improved products, facilities and depreciation expenses. Research and development expense decreased $50.2 million, or 9.3% in fiscal year 2024 from the prior year, and remained relatively flat year-over-year in fiscal 2023. The decrease in research and development expense for fiscal year 2024 was primarily due to a decrease of $36.7 million in personnel costs, largely driven by reductions in workforce as part of the first quarter of fiscal 2024 and third quarter of fiscal 2023 restructuring plans. Research and development headcount at the end of fiscal year 2024 decreased to 2,037 from 2,095 at the end of fiscal year 2023, and decreased to 2,095 from 2,170 at the end of fiscal year 2022. Research and development expense included stock-based compensation expense of $60.3 million, $69.4 million and $71.8 million for fiscal years 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively. General and Administrative. General and administrative expenses consist of the salaries, benefits and related costs of our executive, finance, information technology, human resource and legal personnel, third-party professional service fees, bad debt charges, facilities and depreciation expenses. General and administrative expense increased $5.4 million, or 2.1% in fiscal year 2024 from the prior year, as compared to a year-over-year decrease of $11.2 million, or 4.1% in fiscal 2023. The decrease in general and administrative expense for fiscal year 2024 was primarily due to a decrease of $6.5 million in fees paid for professional services. General and administrative headcount at the end of fiscal year 2024 increased to 875 from 855 at the end of fiscal year 2023. In fiscal year 2023, general and administrative expense included a decrease of $7.0 million in fees paid to outside consultants for legal, accounting and tax services. General and administrative headcount at the end of fiscal year 2023 decreased to 855 from 984 at the end of fiscal year 2022. General and administrative expense included stock-based compensation expense of $44.9 million, $41.1 million and $43.9 million for fiscal years 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Restructuring charges . In the first fiscal quarter of 2024, and the first and third fiscal quarters of 2023, we completed restructuring plans to better align strategic and financial objectives, optimize operations, and drive efficiencies for long-term growth and profitability. As a result of the first fiscal quarter of 2024 restructuring initiative, we recorded a charge of $8.7 million, net of adjustments, related to a reduction in workforce that is reflected in our results for fiscal 2024. As a result of the first and third fiscal quarters of 2023 restructuring initiatives, we recorded charges of $8.7 million and $56.7 million, respectively, related to a reduction in workforce and exit of leased space that is reflected in our results for fiscal 2023. Other Income (Expense), Net. Other income (expense), net, consists primarily of interest income and expense and foreign currency transaction gains and losses. Other income (expense), net increased $23.5 million in fiscal year 2024, as compared to fiscal year 2023 and increased $31.8 million in fiscal year 2023, as compared to fiscal year 2022. The increase in other income (expense), net for fiscal year 2024 was primarily due to an increase in interest income of $16.8 million from our investments, and a decrease in interest expense of $3.2 million, compared to the prior year. In addition, foreign currency gains and losses improved by $2.1 million in fiscal year 2024, compared to the prior year. The increase in other income (expense), net for fiscal year 2023 as compared to fiscal year 2022 was primarily due to an increase in interest income of $16.5 million from our 40 investments, and a decrease in interest expense of $5.5 million, compared to the prior year. In addition, foreign currency losses decreased $9.8 million for fiscal year 2023, compared to the prior year. Provision for Income Taxes. We recorded an 18.5% provision for income taxes for fiscal year 2024, compared to 18.7% in fiscal year 2023 and 16.4% in fiscal year 2022. The increase in effective tax rate from fiscal year 2022 to 2023 and 2024 is primarily due to the tax impact from stock-based compensation and tax reserves. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount we believe is more likely than not to be realized. In making these determinations we consider historical and projected taxable income, and ongoing prudent and feasible tax planning strategies in assessing the appropriateness of a valuation allowance. The net decrease in the valuation allowance of $4.3 million for fiscal year 2024 and net decrease of $2.2 million for fiscal year 2023 was primarily related to tax net operating losses and credits incurred in certain foreign jurisdictions, and state tax carryforwards. Our net deferred tax assets as of September 30, 2024, 2023 and 2022 were $358.8 million, $290.7 million, and $180.6 million, respectively. Our worldwide effective tax rate may fluctuate based on a number of factors, including variations in projected taxable income in the various geographic locations in which we operate, the impact of stock-based compensation, changes in the valuation of our net deferred tax assets, resolution of potential exposures, tax positions taken on tax returns filed in the various geographic locations in which we operate, and the introduction of new accounting standards or changes in tax laws or interpretations thereof in the various geographic locations in which we operate. We have recorded liabilities to address potential tax exposures related to business and income tax positions we have taken that could be challenged by taxing authorities. The ultimate resolution of these potential exposures may be greater or less than the liabilities recorded, which could result in an adjustment to our future tax expense. Liquidity and Capital Resources We have funded our operations with our cash balances and cash generated from operations. Cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and long-term investments totaled $1,083.2 million as of September 30, 2024, compared to $808.4 million as of September 30, 2023, representing an increase of $274.8 million. The increase was primarily due to cash provided by operating activities of $792.4 million for fiscal 2024, partially offset by cash used for the repurchase of outstanding common stock and the payment of related excise taxes of $500.6 million. As of September 30, 2024, 62.9% of our cash and cash equivalents and investment balances were outside of the U.S. The cash and cash equivalents and investment balances outside of the U.S. are subject to fluctuation based on the settlement of intercompany balances. In fiscal year 2023, the decrease to cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments and long-term investments from the prior year was primarily due to cash used for the repayment of the Term Loan Facility, including the outstanding principal balance of $350.0 million, and all accrued, but unpaid interest outstanding of $3.0 million. In addition, $350.0 million of cash was used for the repurchase of outstanding common stock during fiscal year 2023. The decrease was partially offset by cash provided by operating activities of $653.4 million. As of September 30, 2023, 62.8% of our cash and cash equivalents and investment balances were outside of the U.S. Cash provided by operating activities during fiscal year 2024 was $792.4 million compared to $653.4 million in fiscal year 2023 and $442.6 million in fiscal year 2022. Cash provided by operating activities resulted primarily from cash generated from net income, after adjusting for non-cash charges such as stock-based compensation, depreciation and amortization charges and changes in operating assets and liabilities. Cash provided by operating activities for fiscal year 2024 increased from the prior year primarily due to an increase in net income, as well as an increase in cash received from customers. Cash from operations could be affected by various risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to the risks detailed in Part I, Item 1A titled “Risk Factors.” However, we anticipate our current cash, cash equivalents and investment balances, anticipated cash flows generated from operations, and available borrowing capacity on the Revolver Credit Facility will be sufficient to meet our liquidity needs. 41 Cash used in investing activities during fiscal year 2024 was $59.2 million compared to cash provided by investing activities of $36.4 million in fiscal year 2023 and cash provided by investing activities of $218.1 million in fiscal year 2022. Investing activities include purchases, sales and maturities of available-for-sale securities, business acquisitions and capital expenditures. Cash used in investing activities for fiscal year 2024 was primarily the result of $32.9 million in cash paid for acquisitions and $30.4 million in capital expenditures related to maintaining our operations worldwide, partially offset by $6.2 million in maturities of investments. Cash provided by investing activities for fiscal year 2023 was primarily the result of $111.3 million in maturities of investments and $16.1 million in sales of investments, partially offset by $35.0 million in cash paid for acquisitions and $54.2 million in capital expenditures related to maintaining our operations worldwide. Cash provided by investing activities for fiscal year 2022 was primarily the result of $260.4 million in maturities of investments and $120.6 million in sales of investments, partially offset by $68.0 million cash paid for the acquisition Threat Stack in the first quarter of fiscal 2022 and purchases of investments of $61.3 million. Cash used in financing activities was $457.0 million for fiscal year 2024, compared to cash used in financing activities of $653.3 million for fiscal year 2023 and cash used in financing activities of $476.5 million for fiscal year 2022. Cash used in financing activities for fiscal year 2024 included $500.6 million of cash used for the repurchase of outstanding common stock and the payment of related excise taxes, as well as $11.5 million in cash used for taxes related to the net share settlement of equity awards. Cash used in financing activities was partially offset by cash received from the exercise of employee stock options and stock purchases under our employee stock purchase plan of $55.1 million. Cash used in financing activities for fiscal year 2023 included $350.0 million of cash used for the repayment of the Term Loan Facility, as well as $350.0 million of cash used to repurchase shares. In addition, $13.2 million in cash was used for taxes related to net share settlement of equity awards. Cash used in financing activities was partially offset by cash received from the exercise of employee stock options and stock purchases under our employee stock purchase plan of $60.0 million. Cash used in financing activities for fiscal year 2022 included $500.0 million to repurchase shares under our Share Repurchase program, as well as $21.0 million in cash used for taxes related to net share settlement of equity awards and $20.0 million in cash used to make principal payments on our term loan. Cash used in financing activities was partially offset by cash received from the exercise of employee stock options and stock purchases under our employee stock purchase plan of $64.5 million. On January 31, 2020, we entered into a Revolving Credit Agreement (the "Revolving Credit Agreement") that provides for a senior unsecured revolving credit facility in an aggregate principal amount of $350.0 million (the "Revolving Credit Facility"). We have the option to increase commitments under the Revolving Credit Facility from time to time, subject to certain conditions, by up to $150.0 million. As of September 30, 2024, there were no outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility, and we had available borrowing capacity of $350.0 million. Based on our current operating and capital expenditure forecasts, we believe that our existing cash and investment balances, together with cash generated from operations should be sufficient to meet our operating requirements for the next twelve months. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including our rate of revenue growth, the expansion of our sales and marketing activities, the timing and extent of expansion into new territories, the timing of introductions of new products and enhancements of existing products, the continuing market acceptance of our products and cash paid for future acquisitions. Obligations and Commitments As of September 30, 2024, we had approximately $98.7 million of tax liabilities, including interest and penalties, related to uncertain tax positions (See Note 8 to our Consolidated Financial Statements). Because of the high degree of uncertainty regarding the settlement of these liabilities, we are unable to estimate the years in which future cash outflows may occur. As of September 30, 2024, our principal commitments consisted of obligations outstanding under operating leases and purchase obligations with one of our component suppliers. In October 2022, we entered into an unconditional purchase commitment with one of our suppliers for the delivery of systems components. Under the terms of the agreement, we are obligated to purchase $10 million of component inventory annually, with a total committed amount of $40 million over a four-year term. As of September 30, 2024, we had no remaining purchase commitments under the second year of the agreement. Our total non-cancelable long-term purchase commitments outstanding as of September 30, 2024 was $ 20.0 million. We have a contractual obligation to purchase inventory components procured by our primary contract manufacturer in accordance with our annual build forecast. The contractual terms of the obligation contain cancellation provisions, which reduce our liability to purchase inventory components for periods greater than one year. In order to support our build forecast, we will, from time-to-time prepay our primary contract manufacturer for inventory purchases. 42 Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements In November 2023, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") No. 2023-07, Segment Reporting (Topic 280): Improvements to Reportable Segment Disclosures ("ASU 2023-07"). This ASU expands annual and interim disclosure requirements for reportable segments, primarily through enhanced disclosures about significant segment expenses. ASU 2023-07 will be effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2023, and interim periods within fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2024. Early adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of this standard on our disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. In December 2023, the FASB issued ASU No. 2023-09, Income Taxes (Topic 740): Improvements to Income Tax Disclosures ("ASU 2023-09"). This ASU requires disclosure of disaggregated income taxes paid, prescribes standard categories for the components of the effective tax rate reconciliation, and modifies other income tax-related disclosures. ASU 2023-09 will be effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2024. Early adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of this standard on our disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. In November 2024, the FASB issued ASU No. 2024-03, Income Statement - Reporting Comprehensive Income - Expense Disaggregation Disclosures (Subtopic 220-40): Disaggregation of Income Statement Expenses ("ASU 2024-03"). This ASU requires new financial statement disclosures disaggregating prescribed expense categories within relevant income statement expense captions. ASU 2024-03 will be effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2026, and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2027. Early adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of this standard on our disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. 43