********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

The risks and uncertainties listed below present risks that could have a material impact on the Bancorp’s financial condition, the results of its operations or its business. Some of these risks and uncertainties are interrelated and the occurrence of one or more of them may exacerbate the effect of others. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones Fifth Third faces. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to Fifth Third or that Fifth Third currently believes to be immaterial may also adversely affect its business. See “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information. RISK FACTORS SUMMARY The following is a summary of the Risk Factors disclosure in this Item 1A: CREDIT RISKS • Deteriorating credit quality has adversely impacted Fifth Third in the past and may adversely impact Fifth Third in the future. • Fifth Third may have more credit risk and higher credit losses to the extent loans are concentrated by exposure to individual borrowers, location or industry of the borrowers or collateral. • Problems encountered by financial institutions larger than or similar to Fifth Third could adversely affect financial markets generally and have direct and indirect adverse effects on Fifth Third. • Inability to refinance in capital markets could cause a default that impacts Fifth Third borrowers. LIQUIDITY RISKS • Fifth Third must maintain adequate sources of funding and liquidity. • Fifth Third and/or the holders of its securities could be adversely affected by unfavorable ratings from rating agencies. • If Fifth Third is unable to maintain or grow its deposits, it may be subject to paying higher funding costs. • The Bancorp’s ability to receive dividends from its subsidiaries accounts for most of its revenue and could affect its liquidity and ability to pay dividends. OPERATIONAL RISKS • Fifth Third is exposed to cyber security risks that create both operational and reputational risk for the Bank and its customers across all lines of business. • Fifth Third relies on its systems and certain third-party service providers and certain failures (including those driven by climate-related weather events) could materially adversely affect operations. • Fifth Third may not be able to effectively manage organizational changes and implement key initiatives in a timely fashion, or at all, due to competing priorities which could adversely affect its business, results of operations, financial condition and reputation. • Fifth Third may not be able to successfully implement future information technology system enhancements, which could adversely affect Fifth Third’s business operations and profitability. • Fifth Third’s framework for managing risks may not be effective in mitigating its risk and loss. • Fifth Third may experience losses related to fraud, theft or violence. • Fifth Third could suffer if it fails to attract and retain skilled personnel. • Fifth Third may experience operational disruption from the effects of climate change. LEGAL AND REGULATORY COMPLIANCE RISKS • Fifth Third and/or its affiliates are or may become involved from time to time in information-gathering requests, investigations and litigation, regulatory or other enforcement proceedings by various governmental regulatory agencies and law enforcement authorities, as well as self-regulatory agencies which may lead to adverse consequences. • Fifth Third may be required to repurchase residential mortgage loans or reimburse investors and others as a result of breaches in contractual representations and warranties. • Fifth Third is subject to extensive governmental regulation which could adversely impact Fifth Third or the businesses in which Fifth Third is engaged. • Fifth Third could suffer from unauthorized use of intellectual property. • Fifth Third is subject to various regulatory requirements that may limit its operations and potential growth. • Fifth Third could face serious negative consequences if its third-party service providers, business partners or investments fail to comply with applicable laws, rules or regulations. • As a regulated entity, the Bancorp is subject to certain capital requirements that may limit its operations, potential growth and ability to pay or increase dividends on its common stock or to repurchase its capital stock. • Regulation of Fifth Third by the CFTC imposes additional operational and compliance costs. • Deposit insurance premiums levied against the Bank may increase if the number of bank failures increase or the cost of resolving failed banks increases. 30 Fifth Third Bancorp • If an orderly liquidation of a systemically important BHC or non-bank financial company were triggered, Fifth Third could face assessments for the Orderly Liquidation Fund. MARKET RISKS: INTEREST RATE RISKS AND PRICE RISKS • The replacement of LIBOR could adversely affect Fifth Third’s revenue or expenses and the value of those assets or obligations. • Weakness in the U.S. economy, including within Fifth Third’s geographic footprint, has adversely affected Fifth Third in the past and may adversely affect Fifth Third in the future. • Global and domestic political, social and economic uncertainties and changes may adversely affect Fifth Third. • Changes in interest rates could affect Fifth Third’s income and cash flows. • Changes and trends in the capital markets may affect Fifth Third’s income and cash flows. • Fifth Third’s stock price is volatile. • Fifth Third’s mortgage banking net revenue can be volatile from quarter to quarter. STRATEGIC RISKS • If Fifth Third does not respond to intense competition and rapid changes in the financial services industry or otherwise adapt to changing customer preferences, its financial performance may suffer. • Changes in retail distribution strategies and consumer behavior may adversely impact Fifth Third’s investments in its bank premises and equipment and other assets and may lead to increased expenditures to change its retail distribution channel. • Difficulties in identifying suitable opportunities or combining the operations of acquired entities or assets with Fifth Third’s own operations or assessing the effectiveness of businesses in which Fifth Third makes strategic investments or with which Fifth Third enters into strategic contractual relationships may prevent Fifth Third from achieving the expected benefits from these acquisitions, investments or relationships. • Future acquisitions may dilute current shareholders’ ownership of Fifth Third and may cause Fifth Third to become more susceptible to adverse economic events. • Fifth Third may sell or consider selling one or more of its businesses or investments. Should it determine to sell such a business or investment, it may not be able to generate gains on sale or related increases in shareholders’ equity commensurate with desirable levels. Moreover, if Fifth Third sold such businesses or investments, the loss of income could have an adverse effect on its earnings and future growth. REPUTATION RISKS • Damage to Fifth Third’s reputation could harm its business. • Fifth Third is subject to environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) risks that could adversely affect its reputation, the trading price of its common stock and/or its business, operations, and earnings. GENERAL BUSINESS RISKS • Changes in accounting standards or interpretations could impact Fifth Third’s reported earnings and financial condition. • Fifth Third uses models for business planning purposes that may not adequately predict future results. • The preparation of financial statements requires Fifth Third to make subjective determinations and use estimates that may vary from actual results and materially impact its results of operations or financial position. • The effects of global climate change, natural disasters or health emergencies may have an effect on the performance of Fifth Third’s loan portfolios, thereby adversely impacting its results of operations. • Societal responses to climate change could adversely affect Fifth Third’s business and performance, including indirectly through impacts on Fifth Third’s customers. • Potential noncompliance with evolving federal and state laws governing cannabis-related businesses (“CRBs”) could subject Fifth Third to liabilities. • The COVID-19 pandemic creates significant risks and uncertainties for Fifth Third’s business. CREDIT RISKS Deteriorating credit quality has adversely impacted Fifth Third in the past and may adversely impact Fifth Third in the future. When Fifth Third lends money or commits to lend money, the Bancorp incurs credit risk or the risk of loss if borrowers do not repay their loans, leases, credit cards, derivative obligations, or other credit obligations. The performance of these credit portfolios significantly affects the Bancorp’s financial results and condition. If the current economic environment were to deteriorate, more customers may have difficulty in repaying their credit obligations which could result in a higher level of credit losses and reserves for credit losses. Fifth Third reserves for credit losses by establishing reserves through a charge to earnings. The amount of these reserves is based on Fifth Third’s assessment of credit losses expected to be incurred in the credit portfolios including unfunded credit commitments. The process for determining the amount of the ALLL and the reserve for unfunded commitments is critical to Fifth Third’s financial results and condition. Such determination 31 Fifth Third Bancorp requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments about the environment, including analysis of economic or market conditions that may impair the ability of borrowers to repay their loans. Fifth Third may underestimate the credit losses expected to be incurred in its portfolios and have credit losses in excess of the amount reserved. Fifth Third may increase the reserve because of changing economic or market conditions, including falling home prices or higher unemployment, or other factors such as changes in borrower’s behavior or changing protections in credit agreements. As an example, borrowers may “strategically default,” or discontinue making payments on their real estate-secured loans if the value of the real estate is less than what they owe, even if they are still financially able to make the payments. Fifth Third believes that both the ALLL and the reserve for unfunded commitments are adequate to cover expected losses at December 31, 2022; however, there is no assurance that they will be sufficient to cover future credit losses associated with exposures existing at December 31, 2022, especially if economic conditions decline, including but not limited to housing and employment conditions. In the event of significant deterioration in economic or market conditions, Fifth Third may be required to increase reserves in future periods, which would reduce earnings. For more information, refer to the Credit Risk Management subsection of the Risk Management section and the ALLL and Reserve for Unfunded Commitments subsections of the Critical Accounting Policies section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. Fifth Third may have more credit risk and higher credit losses to the extent loans are concentrated by exposure to individual borrowers, location or industry of the borrowers or collateral. Fifth Third’s credit risk and credit losses can increase if its loans are concentrated among individual borrowers, borrowers engaged in the same or similar activities, industries or geographies or to borrowers who as a group may be uniquely or disproportionately affected by economic or market conditions. Deterioration in economic conditions, including housing conditions or commodity and real estate values in certain states or locations could result in materially higher credit losses if loans are concentrated in those locations or by other factors. Fifth Third has significant exposure to businesses in certain economic sectors such as manufacturing, real estate, financial services, insurance and healthcare, and weaknesses in those businesses may adversely impact Fifth Third’s business, results of operations or financial condition. Additionally, Fifth Third has a substantial portfolio of commercial and residential real estate loans and weaknesses in residential or commercial real estate markets may adversely impact Fifth Third’s business, results of operations or financial condition. Certain industries, including segments of the healthcare industry (including skilled nursing, physician offices and surgery/outpatient centers) that were impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic continue to struggle with recovery. Additionally, many other affected businesses that have reopened are experiencing increased costs and labor shortages, which create wide-ranging effects on several industries. Problems encountered by financial institutions larger than or similar to Fifth Third could adversely affect financial markets generally and have direct and indirect adverse effects on Fifth Third. Fifth Third has exposure to counterparties in the financial services industry and other industries and routinely executes transactions with such counterparties, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds and other institutional clients. Many of Fifth Third’s transactions with other financial institutions expose Fifth Third to credit risk in the event of default of a counterparty or client. In addition, Fifth Third’s credit risk may be affected when the collateral it holds cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure. The commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading, clearing or other relationships between the institutions. As a result, concerns about, or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. This is sometimes referred to as “systemic risk” and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges, with which the Bancorp interacts on a daily basis, and therefore could adversely affect Fifth Third. Inability to refinance in capital markets could cause a default that impacts Fifth Third borrowers. Some Fifth Third customers rely on additional sources of capital from outside the Bancorp. If capital markets are disrupted or unavailable to these borrowers such that they cannot obtain funds for refinancing, those borrowers may experience a shortfall that would leave them unable to honor short-term and/or long-term obligations to the Bancorp. LIQUIDITY RISKS Fifth Third must maintain adequate sources of funding and liquidity. Fifth Third must maintain adequate funding sources in the normal course of business to support its operations and fund outstanding liabilities, as well as meet regulatory expectations. Fifth Third primarily relies on bank deposits to be a low cost and stable source of funding for the loans it makes and the operation of its business. Core deposits, which include transaction deposits and certificates of deposit $250,000 or less, have historically provided Fifth Third with a sizeable source of relatively stable and low-cost funds (average core deposits funded 78% of average total assets for the year ending December 31, 2022). In addition to customer deposits, sources of liquidity include investments in the 32 Fifth Third Bancorp securities portfolio, Fifth Third’s sale or securitization of loans in secondary markets, the pledging of loans and investment securities to access secured borrowing facilities through the FHLB and the FRB, and Fifth Third’s ability to raise funds in money and capital markets. Fifth Third’s liquidity and ability to fund and operate its business could be materially adversely affected by a variety of conditions and factors, including financial and credit market disruptions and volatility or a lack of market or customer confidence in financial markets in general similar to what occurred during the financial crisis in 2008 and early 2009, which may result in a loss of customer deposits or outflows of cash or collateral and/or ability to access capital markets on favorable terms. Other conditions and factors that could materially adversely affect Fifth Third’s liquidity and funding include: • a lack of market or customer confidence in Fifth Third or negative news about Fifth Third or the financial services industry generally, which also may result in a loss of customer deposits and/or negatively affect Fifth Third’s ability to access the capital markets; • the loss of customer deposits due to competition from other banks or due to alternative investments; • inability to sell or securitize loans or other assets; • increased collateral requirements; • increased regulatory requirements; • reductions in one or more of Fifth Third’s credit ratings; • increased utilization of revolving lines of credit by customers; and • systematic failure of financial market utilities relied upon by Fifth Third to settle intrabank payment activity. A reduction in Fifth Third’s credit rating could adversely affect its ability to borrow funds, including by raising the cost of borrowings substantially and could cause creditors and business counterparties to raise collateral requirements or take other actions that could adversely affect Fifth Third’s ability to raise capital. Many of the above conditions and factors may be caused by events over which Fifth Third has little or no control such as what occurred during the financial crisis. There can be no assurance that significant disruption and volatility in the financial markets will not occur again in the future. Regulatory changes relating to liquidity and risk management may also negatively impact Fifth Third’s results of operations and competitive position. Various regulations have been adopted to impose more stringent liquidity requirements for large financial institutions, including Fifth Third. These regulations address, among other matters, liquidity stress testing and minimum liquidity requirements. The application of certain of these regulations to banking organizations, such as Fifth Third, have been modified, including in connection with the implementation of the Tailoring Rules in the EGRRCPA. If Fifth Third is unable to continue to fund assets through customer bank deposits or access capital markets on favorable terms or if Fifth Third suffers an increase in borrowing costs or otherwise fails to manage liquidity effectively, Fifth Third’s liquidity, operating margins and financial results and condition may be materially adversely affected. Fifth Third may also need to raise additional capital and liquidity through the issuance of stock, which could dilute the ownership of existing stockholders, or reduce or even eliminate common stock dividends or share repurchases to preserve capital and liquidity. Fifth Third and/or the holders of its securities could be adversely affected by unfavorable ratings from rating agencies. Fifth Third’s ability to access the capital markets is important to its overall funding profile. This access is affected by the ratings assigned by rating agencies to Fifth Third, certain of its subsidiaries and particular classes of securities they issue. The interest rates that Fifth Third pays on its securities are also influenced by, among other things, the credit ratings that it, its subsidiaries and/or its securities receive from recognized rating agencies. A downgrade to Fifth Third or its subsidiaries’ credit rating could affect its ability to access the capital markets, increase its borrowing costs and negatively impact its profitability. A ratings downgrade to Fifth Third, its subsidiaries or their securities could also create obligations or liabilities of Fifth Third under the terms of its outstanding securities that could increase Fifth Third’s costs or otherwise have a negative effect on its results of operations or financial condition. Additionally, a downgrade of the credit rating of any particular security issued by Fifth Third or its subsidiaries could negatively affect the ability of the holders of that security to sell the securities and the prices at which any such securities may be sold. Other rating agencies may also take actions to downgrade their ratings of the securities issued by Fifth Third or its subsidiaries. There can be no assurances that Fifth Third or its subsidiaries will retain any specific rating from any specific rating agency. 33 Fifth Third Bancorp If Fifth Third is unable to maintain or grow its deposits, it may be subject to paying higher funding costs. The total amount that Fifth Third pays for funding costs is dependent, in part, on Fifth Third’s ability to maintain or grow its deposits. If Fifth Third is unable to sufficiently maintain or grow its deposits to meet liquidity objectives, it may be subject to paying higher funding costs. Fifth Third competes with banks and other financial services companies for deposits. If competitors raise the rates they pay on deposits, Fifth Third’s funding costs may increase, either because Fifth Third raises rates to avoid losing deposits or because Fifth Third loses deposits and must rely on more expensive sources of funding. Also, customers typically move money from bank deposits to alternative investments during rising interest rate environments. Customers may also move noninterest-bearing deposits to interest-bearing accounts increasing the cost of those deposits. Checking and savings account balances and other forms of customer deposits may decrease when customers perceive alternative investments, such as the stock market, as providing a better risk/return trade-off. Fifth Third’s bank customers could take their money out of the Bank and put it in alternative investments, causing Fifth Third to lose a lower cost source of funding. Higher funding costs reduce Fifth Third’s net interest margin and net interest income. The Bancorp’s ability to receive dividends from its subsidiaries accounts for most of its revenue and could affect its liquidity and ability to pay dividends. Fifth Third Bancorp is a separate and distinct legal entity from its subsidiaries. Fifth Third Bancorp typically receives substantially all of its revenue from dividends from its subsidiaries. These dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on Fifth Third Bancorp’s stock and interest and principal on its debt. The ability of Fifth Third Bancorp’s subsidiaries to pay dividends or make other payments or distributions depends on their respective operating results and may be restricted by, among other things, regulatory constraints, prevailing economic conditions (including interest rates), and financial, business and other factors, many of which are beyond the control of Fifth Third Bancorp. Various federal and/or state laws and regulations, as well as regulatory expectations, limit the amount of dividends that the Bancorp’s banking subsidiary and certain nonbank subsidiaries may pay to the Bancorp. Regulatory scrutiny of liquidity and capital levels at bank holding companies and insured depository institutions has resulted in increased regulatory focus on all aspects of capital planning, including dividends and other distributions to shareholders of banks such as the parent bank holding companies. In addition, Fifth Third Bancorp’s right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary’s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of that subsidiary’s creditors. Regulatory limitations on the Bancorp’s ability to receive dividends from its subsidiaries, economic conditions and other financial or business factors could have a material adverse effect on its liquidity and ability to pay dividends on stock or interest and principal on its debt and to engage in share repurchases. For further information, refer to Regulation and Supervision in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. OPERATIONAL RISKS Fifth Third is exposed to cyber security risks that create both operational and reputational risk for the Bank and its customers across all lines of business. In today’s digital world, more and more of Fifth Third’s business is conducted primarily via digital and mobile technology and information management systems. This includes the use of cloud computing, digital applications and third-party providers that host and store sensitive employee and customer information. Failures, interruptions of service or breaches in the security of these environments occur across the financial services industry with some frequency and, if a material event of this nature occurred at Fifth Third or one of its third-party providers, this could result in disruptions to Fifth Third’s accounting, deposit, lending and other systems, and adversely affect its customer relationships. While Fifth Third heavily invests in information security, technical resiliency, business continuity and disaster recovery planning, and has policies and procedures designed to detect, limit, and prevent the impact of these possible events, there can be no assurance that any such failure, interruption or security breach will not occur or, if any does occur, that it can be remediated in such a way to eliminate the risk. There will always be efforts on the part of threat actors to breach information security at financial institutions or with respect to financial transactions. There have been several recent instances involving financial services, credit bureaus and consumer-based companies reporting the unauthorized disclosure of client or customer information or the destruction or theft of corporate data, by both private individuals and foreign governments. In addition, because the techniques used to cause such security breaches change frequently, often are not recognized until launched against a target and may originate from less regulated and remote areas around the world, Fifth Third may be unable to proactively address these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Despite Fifth Third’s efforts to prevent a cyber-attack, a successful cyber-attack could persist for an extended period of time before being detected, and, following detection, it could take considerable time for Fifth Third to obtain full and reliable information about the cyber security incident and the extent, amount and type of information compromised. During the course of an investigation, Fifth Third may not necessarily know the full effects of the incident or how to remediate it, and actions and decisions that are taken or made in an effort to mitigate risk may further increase the costs and other negative consequences of the incident. Furthermore, financial services companies are regularly the target of cyber-attacks such as distributed denial of service attacks and ransomware attacks. The unintentional or willful acts or omissions of employees also remains the primary avenue through which threat actors attempt to gain access to company networks, information systems and data. An emerging risk is the use of third- and fourth-party providers to host critical data and platforms for Fifth Third, or in some cases provide IT services to Fifth Third domestically and internationally. Fifth Third must make investments in its ability to oversee third- and fourth-party 34 Fifth Third Bancorp providers and its failure to do so could result in customer losses, operational issues, litigation, regulatory actions and reputational loss.  Industry trends are moving more to cloud providers, Software as a Service partners and hosted platforms that traditionally resided inside Fifth Third’s firewall and data centers. These emerging risks are further heightened through the increasing use of near real-time money movement solutions such as Zelle, and increase the difficulty to detect, prevent and recover fraudulent transactions. These emerging risks are increasing the costs of Fifth Third’s investment in technology and cyber security and require further investment in cyber-related and data loss event insurance which Fifth Third has in place. Though Fifth Third has insurance against some cyber security risks and attacks, it may not be sufficient to offset the impact of a material loss event. Future investment in these areas could have higher than expected costs and/or result in operating inefficiencies, which could increase the costs associated with the implementation as well as ongoing operations. If personal, confidential or proprietary information of customers or clients in the Bancorp’s or such vendors’ or other third-parties’ possession were to be mishandled or misused, the Bancorp could suffer significant regulatory consequences, reputational damage and financial loss. Fifth Third relies on its systems and certain third-party service providers and certain failures (including those driven by climate-related weather events) could materially adversely affect operations. Fifth Third’s operations, including its financial and accounting systems, use computer systems and telecommunications networks operated by both Fifth Third and third-party service providers. Fifth Third may not be sufficiently resilient and may not recover from significant operational events in a timely manner which could create operational and reputational risks. Additionally, Fifth Third collects, processes and stores sensitive consumer data by utilizing those and other systems and networks. Fifth Third has security, backup and recovery systems in place, as well as a business continuity plan to ensure the systems will not be inoperable. Fifth Third also has security to prevent unauthorized access to the systems. In addition, Fifth Third requires its third-party service providers to maintain similar controls. However, Fifth Third cannot be certain that the measures will be successful. A security breach in these systems or the loss or corruption of confidential information such as business results, transaction records and related information could adversely impact Fifth Third’s ability to provide timely and accurate financial information in compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, which could result in sanctions from regulatory authorities, significant reputational harm and the loss of customer confidence in Fifth Third. Additionally, security breaches or the loss, theft or corruption of customer information such as social security numbers, credit card numbers, account balances or other information could result in losses by Fifth Third's customers, litigation, regulatory sanctions, lost customers and revenue, increased costs and significant reputational harm. Fifth Third’s necessary dependence upon automated systems to record and process its transaction volume poses the risk that technical system flaws or employee errors, tampering or manipulation of those systems will result in losses and may be difficult to detect. Fifth Third may also be subject to disruptions of its operating systems arising from events that are beyond its control (for example, computer viruses or electrical or telecommunications outages). Third-party service providers with which the Bancorp does business both domestically and offshore, as well as vendors and other third parties with which the Bancorp’s customers do business, can also be sources of operational risk to the Bancorp, particularly where processes are highly concentrated or activities of customers are beyond the Bancorp’s security and control systems, such as through the use of the internet, personal computers, tablets, smart phones and other mobile services. Security breaches affecting the Bancorp’s customers, or systems breakdowns or failures, security breaches or employee misconduct affecting such other third-party service providers, may require the Bancorp to take steps to protect the integrity of its own operational systems or to safeguard confidential information of the Bancorp or its customers, thereby increasing the Bancorp’s operational costs and potentially diminishing customer satisfaction. If personal, confidential or proprietary information of customers or clients in the Bancorp’s or such vendors’ or other third parties’ possession were to be mishandled or misused, the Bancorp could suffer significant regulatory consequences, reputational damage and financial loss. Such mishandling or misuse could include circumstances where, for example, such information was erroneously provided to parties who are not permitted to have the information, either through the fault of the Bancorp’s systems, employees or counterparties, or where such information was intercepted or otherwise compromised by threat actors. The Bancorp may be subject to disruptions of its operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond the Bancorp’s control, which may include, for example, security breaches; electrical or telecommunications outages; failures of computer components or servers or other damage to the Bancorp’s property or assets; natural disasters or severe weather conditions; health emergencies; or events arising from local or larger-scale political events, including outbreaks of hostilities or terrorist acts. While the Bancorp believes that its current business continuity plans are both sufficient and adequate, there can be no assurance that such plans will fully mitigate all potential business continuity risks to the Bancorp or its customers and clients. Any failures or disruptions of the Bancorp’s systems or operations could give rise to losses in service to customers and clients, adversely affect the Bancorp’s business and results of operations by subjecting the Bancorp to losses or liability, or require the Bancorp to expend significant resources to correct the failure or disruption, as well as by exposing the Bancorp to reputational harm, litigation, regulatory fines or penalties or losses not covered by insurance. The Bancorp could also be adversely affected if it loses access to information or services from a third-party service provider as a result of a security breach or system or operational failure, or disruption affecting the third-party service provider. Fifth Third’s insurance may be inadequate to compensate for failures by, or affecting, third-party service providers upon which Fifth Third relies. 35 Fifth Third Bancorp Fifth Third may not be able to effectively manage organizational changes and implement key initiatives in a timely fashion, or at all, due to competing priorities which could adversely affect its business, results of operations, financial condition and reputation. Fifth Third is subject to rapid changes in technology, regulation and product innovation, and faces intense competition for customers, sources of revenue, capital, services, qualified employees and other essential business resources. In order to meet these challenges, Fifth Third is or may be engaged in numerous critical strategic initiatives at the same time. Accomplishing these initiatives may be complex, time intensive and require significant financial, technological, management and other resources. These initiatives may consume management’s attention and may compete for limited resources. In addition, organizational changes may need to be implemented throughout Fifth Third as a result of the new products, services, partnerships and processes that arise from the execution of these various strategic initiatives. Fifth Third may have difficulty managing these organizational changes and executing these initiatives effectively in a timely fashion, or at all. Fifth Third’s failure to do so could expose it to litigation or regulatory action and may damage Fifth Third’s business, results of operations, financial condition and reputation. Fifth Third may not be able to successfully implement future information technology system enhancements, which could adversely affect Fifth Third’s business operations and profitability. Fifth Third invests significant resources in information technology system enhancements in order to provide functionality and security at an appropriate level for ongoing product development and process re-engineering. Fifth Third may not be able to successfully implement and integrate future system enhancements, which could adversely impact the ability to provide timely and accurate financial information in compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, which could result in sanctions from regulatory authorities. Such sanctions could include fines and result in reputational harm and have other negative effects. Failure to properly utilize system enhancements that are implemented in the future could result in impairment charges that adversely impact Fifth Third’s financial condition and results of operations and could result in significant costs to remediate or replace the defective components. In addition, Fifth Third may incur significant training, licensing, maintenance, consulting and amortization expenses during and after systems implementations, and any such costs may continue for an extended period of time. A failure to maintain or enhance Fifth Third’s competitive position with respect to technology, whether because of a failure to anticipate client expectations or other necessary changes, a failure in the performance of technological developments or an untimely roll out of developments, may cause Fifth Third to lose market share or incur additional expense. Fifth Third’s framework for managing risks may not be effective in mitigating its risk and loss. Fifth Third’s risk management framework seeks to mitigate risk and loss. Fifth Third has established processes and procedures intended to identify, measure, monitor, report and manage the types of risk to which it is subject, including liquidity risk, credit risk, interest rate risk, price risk, legal and regulatory compliance risk, strategic risk, reputational risk and operational risk related to its employees, systems and vendors, among others. Fifth Third also considers the physical and transition risks arising from climate change to be transverse risk drivers that impact all of these material risks and have therefore integrated climate change considerations into its risk management framework. Any system of control and any system to reduce risk exposure, however well designed and operated, is based in part on certain assumptions and can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurances that the objectives of the system are met. A failure in Fifth Third’s internal controls could have a significant negative impact not only on its earnings, but also on the perception that customers, regulators and investors may have of Fifth Third. Fifth Third continues to devote a significant amount of effort, time and resources to improving its controls and ensuring compliance with complex regulations. Additionally, instruments, systems and strategies used to hedge or otherwise manage exposure to various types of interest rate, price, legal and regulatory compliance, credit, liquidity, operational and business risks and enterprise-wide risk could be less effective than anticipated. As a result, Fifth Third may not be able to effectively mitigate its risk exposures in particular market environments or against particular types of risk. If Fifth Third’s risk management framework proves ineffective, Fifth Third could incur litigation, negative regulatory consequences, reputational damages among other adverse consequences and Fifth Third could suffer unexpected losses that may affect its financial condition or results of operations. Fifth Third may experience losses related to fraud, theft or violence. Fifth Third has experienced, and may experience again in the future, losses incurred due to customer or employee fraud, theft or physical violence. Additionally, physical violence may negatively affect Fifth Third’s key personnel, facilities or systems. These losses may be material and negatively affect Fifth Third’s results of operations, financial condition or prospects. These losses could also lead to significant reputational risks and other effects. The industry fraud threat continues to evolve, including but not limited to, card fraud, check fraud, electronic fraud, wire fraud, social engineering and phishing attacks for identity theft and account takeover. Nationally, reported incidents of fraud and other financial crimes have increased. Increased use of the internet and telecommunications technologies (including mobile devices) to conduct financial and other business transactions and operations, coupled with the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, perpetrators of fraud, hackers, terrorists and others increases Fifth Third’s security risks. Fifth Third continues to invest in fraud prevention in the forms of people and systems designed to prevent, detect and mitigate the customer and financial impacts. Fifth Third could suffer if it fails to attract and retain skilled personnel. Fifth Third’s success depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and retain key individuals. Competition for qualified candidates in the activities and markets that Fifth Third serves is intense, which may increase Fifth Third’s expenses and may result in Fifth Third not being 36 Fifth Third Bancorp able to hire candidates or retain them. If Fifth Third is not able to hire qualified candidates or retain its key personnel, Fifth Third may be unable to execute its business strategies and may suffer adverse consequences to its business, operations and financial condition. Compensation paid by financial institutions such as Fifth Third is heavily regulated, particularly under Dodd-Frank, which affects the amount and form of compensation Fifth Third pays to hire and retain talented employees. If Fifth Third is unable to attract and retain qualified employees, or do so at rates necessary to maintain its competitive position, or if compensation costs required to attract and retain employees become more expensive, Fifth Third’s performance, including its competitive position, could be materially adversely affected. Fifth Third may experience operational disruption from the effects of climate change. Fifth Third faces operational risk from the effects of climate change as an increase in severe weather may cause closures, damage to infrastructure, or damage to Fifth Third’s physical locations that may disrupt the physical operation of the Bancorp. These interruptions may impair Fifth Third’s ability to operate and may interfere with its ability to carry out business and serve clients and customers. LEGAL AND REGULATORY COMPLIANCE RISKS Fifth Third and/or its affiliates are or may become involved from time to time in information-gathering requests, investigations and litigation, regulatory or other enforcement proceedings by various governmental regulatory agencies and law enforcement authorities, as well as self-regulatory agencies which may lead to adverse consequences. Fifth Third and/or its affiliates are or may become involved from time to time in information-gathering requests, reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental regulatory agencies and law enforcement authorities, as well as self-regulatory agencies, regarding their respective customers and businesses, as well as their sales practices, data security, product offerings, compensation practices and other compliance issues. Also, a violation of law or regulation by another financial institution may give rise to an inquiry or investigation by regulators or other authorities of the same or similar practices by Fifth Third. In addition, the complexity of the federal and state regulatory and enforcement regimes in the U.S. means that a single event or topic may give rise to numerous and overlapping investigations and regulatory proceedings. Furthermore, Fifth Third and certain of its directors and officers have been named from time to time as defendants in various class actions and other litigation relating to Fifth Third’s business and activities, as well as regulatory or other enforcement proceedings. Past, present and future litigation have included or could include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages or claims for indeterminate amounts of damages. Enforcement authorities may seek admissions of wrongdoing and, in some cases, criminal pleas as part of the resolutions of matters and any such resolution of a matter involving Fifth Third which could lead to increased exposure to private litigation, could adversely affect Fifth Third’s reputation and could result in limitations on Fifth Third’s ability to do business in certain jurisdictions. Each of the matters described above may result in material adverse consequences, including without limitation, adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other actions, amendments and/or restatements of Fifth Third’s SEC filings and/or financial statements, as applicable, and/or determinations of material weaknesses in its disclosure controls and procedures. In addition, responding to information-gathering requests, reviews, investigations and proceedings, regardless of the ultimate outcome of the matter, could be time-consuming and expensive. Like other large financial institutions and companies, Fifth Third is also subject to risk from potential employee misconduct, including non-compliance with policies and improper use or disclosure of confidential information. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory or other enforcement action against Fifth Third could materially adversely affect its business, financial condition or results of operations and/or cause significant reputational harm to its business. The outcome of lawsuits and regulatory proceedings may be difficult to predict or estimate. Although Fifth Third establishes accruals for legal proceedings when information related to the loss contingencies represented by those matters indicates both that a loss is probable and that the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated, Fifth Third does not have accruals for all legal proceedings where it faces a risk of loss. In addition, due to the inherent subjectivity of the assessments and unpredictability of the outcome of legal proceedings, amounts accrued may not represent the ultimate loss to Fifth Third from the legal proceedings in question. Thus, Fifth Third’s ultimate losses may be higher, and possibly significantly so, than the amounts accrued for legal loss contingencies, which could adversely affect Fifth Third’s results of operations. In addition, there has been a trend of public settlements with governmental agencies that may adversely affect other financial institutions, to the extent such settlements are used as a template for future settlements. The uncertain regulatory enforcement environment makes it difficult to estimate probable losses, which can lead to substantial disparities between legal reserves and actual settlements or penalties. For further information on specific legal and regulatory proceedings, refer to Note 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Fifth Third may be required to repurchase residential mortgage loans or reimburse investors and others as a result of breaches in contractual representations and warranties. Fifth Third sells residential mortgage loans to various parties, including government-sponsored enterprises (“GSE”) and other financial institutions that purchase residential mortgage loans for investment or private label securitization. Fifth Third may be required to repurchase residential mortgage loans, indemnify the securitization trust, investor or insurer, or reimburse the securitization trust, investor or insurer, for credit losses incurred on loans in the event of a breach of contractual representations or warranties that is not remedied within a specified 37 Fifth Third Bancorp period (usually 60 days or less) after Fifth Third receives notice of the breach. Contracts for residential mortgage loan sales to the GSEs include various types of specific remedies and penalties that could be applied to inadequate responses to repurchase requests. As a result, Fifth Third has established reserves in its consolidated financial statements for probable losses related to the residential mortgage loans it has sold. If economic conditions or the housing market deteriorate or future investor repurchase demand and Fifth Third’s success at appealing such repurchase requests differ from expectations, Fifth Third could have increased repurchase obligations and increased loss severity on repurchases, requiring material additions to the repurchase reserve. Due to uncertainties relating to these factors, there can be no assurance that the reserves Fifth Third establishes will be adequate or that the total amount of losses incurred will not have a material adverse effect on Fifth Third’s financial condition or results of operations. Fifth Third is subject to extensive governmental regulation which could adversely impact Fifth Third or the businesses in which Fifth Third is engaged. Government regulation and legislation subject Fifth Third and other financial institutions to restrictions, oversight and/or costs that may have an impact on Fifth Third’s business, financial condition, results of operations or the price of its common stock. Fifth Third is subject to extensive federal and state regulation, supervision and legislation that govern almost all aspects of its operations and limit the businesses in which Fifth Third may engage. These laws and regulations may change from time to time and are primarily intended for the protection of consumers, borrowers and depositors and are not designed to protect security-holders. In the past decade, the scope of the laws and regulations and the intensity of the supervision to which Fifth Third is subject increased in response to the 2008-2009 financial crisis as well as other factors such as technological and market changes. Compliance with these laws and regulations has resulted in and will continue to result in additional costs, which could be significant, and may have a material and adverse effect on Fifth Third’s results of operations. In addition, if Fifth Third does not appropriately comply with current or future legislation and regulations, especially those that apply to its consumer operations, which has been an area of heightened focus, Fifth Third may be subject to fines, penalties or judgments, or material regulatory restrictions on its businesses, which could adversely affect operations and, in turn, financial results. Additionally, actions by regulatory agencies or significant litigation against Fifth Third could cause it to devote significant time and resources to defending itself and may lead to penalties that materially affect Fifth Third and its shareholders. Future changes in laws or regulations (including tax laws and regulations such as the Inflation Reduction Act) or their interpretations or enforcement may also be materially adverse to Fifth Third and its shareholders or may require Fifth Third to expend significant time and resources to comply with such requirements. In addition, as climate change issues become more prevalent, the U.S. and foreign governments are beginning to respond to these issues. The increasing government focus on climate change may result in new environmental regulations, including disclosure required by the SEC, that could result in additional compliance costs. The Biden Administration has sought to implement a regulatory agenda that is significantly different than that of the Trump Administration. This agenda could include a heightened focus on the risks arising from climate change, fair lending, consumer protection, Bank Secrecy Act and anti-money laundering requirements, topics related to social equity, executive compensation, and increased capital and liquidity, as well as limits on share buybacks and dividends. In addition, mergers and acquisitions could be hindered by increased antitrust and other regulatory scrutiny. Reform proposals are also expected for the short-term wholesale markets. It is uncertain which, if any, of these policies would be implemented and what their impact would be on Fifth Third. Fifth Third cannot predict whether any pending or future legislation will be adopted or the substance and impact of any such new legislation on Fifth Third. Changes in regulation and supervisory and enforcement focus could affect Fifth Third in a substantial way and could have an adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. Additionally, legislation or regulatory reform could affect the behaviors of third parties that Fifth Third deals within the course of business, such as rating agencies, insurance companies and investors. In addition, changes in laws or regulations that affect Fifth Third’s customers and business partners could negatively affect Fifth Third’s revenues and expenses. Certain changes in laws such as tax law reforms that impose limitations on the deductibility of interest may decrease the demand for Fifth Third’s products or services and could negatively affect its revenues and results of operations. Other changes in laws or regulations could cause Fifth Third’s third-party service providers and other vendors to increase the prices they charge to Fifth Third and negatively affect Fifth Third’s expenses and financial results. Fifth Third could suffer from unauthorized use of intellectual property. Fifth Third develops for itself, and licenses from others, intellectual property for use in conducting its business. This intellectual property has been, and may be, subject to misappropriation or infringement by third parties as well as claims that Fifth Third’s use of certain technology or other intellectual property infringes on rights owned by others. Fifth Third has been, and may be, subject to disputes and/or litigation concerning these claims and could be held responsible for significant damages covering past activities and substantial fees to continue to engage in these activities in the future. Fifth Third may also be unable to acquire rights to use certain intellectual property that is important for its business and may be unable to effectively engage in critical business activities. If Fifth Third is unable to protect or acquire rights to use intellectual property it owns or licenses, it may lose certain competitive advantages, incur expenses and/or lose revenue and may suffer harm to its business results and financial condition. 38 Fifth Third Bancorp Fifth Third is subject to various regulatory requirements that may limit its operations and potential growth. Under federal and state laws and regulations pertaining to the safety and soundness of insured depository institutions and their holding companies, the FRB, the FDIC, the CFPB and the OCC have the authority to compel or restrict certain actions by the Bancorp and the Bank. The Bancorp and the Bank are subject to such supervisory authority and, more generally, must, in certain instances, obtain prior regulatory approval before engaging in certain activities or corporate decisions. There can be no assurance that such approvals, if required, would be forthcoming or that such approvals would be granted in a timely manner. Failure to receive any such approval, if required, could limit or impair the Bancorp’s operations, restrict its growth, ability to compete, innovate or participate in industry consolidation and/or affect its dividend policy. Such actions and activities that may be subject to prior approval include, but are not limited to, increasing dividends or other capital distributions by the Bancorp or the Bank, entering into a merger or acquisition transaction, acquiring or establishing new branches, and entering into certain new businesses. Failure by the Bancorp or the Bank to meet the applicable eligibility requirements for FHC status (including capital and management requirements and that the Bank maintain at least a “Satisfactory” CRA rating) may result in restrictions on certain activities of the Bancorp, including the commencement of new activities and mergers with or acquisitions of other financial institutions and could ultimately result in the loss of FHC status. Fifth Third and other financial institutions are subject to scrutiny from government authorities, including bank regulatory authorities, stemming from broader systemic regulatory concerns, including with respect to stress testing, liquidity and capital levels, asset quality, provisioning, AML/BSA, fair lending, consumer compliance and other prudential matters and efforts to ensure that financial institutions take steps to improve their risk management and prevent future crises. In this regard, government authorities, including the bank regulatory agencies and law enforcement, are also pursuing aggressive enforcement actions with respect to compliance and other legal matters involving financial activities, which heightens the risks associated with actual and perceived compliance failures and may also adversely affect Fifth Third’s ability to enter into certain transactions or engage in certain activities, or obtain necessary regulatory approvals in connection therewith. The government enforcement authority includes, among other things, the ability to assess significant civil or criminal monetary penalties, fines, or restitution; to issue cease and desist or removal orders; and to initiate injunctive actions against banking organizations and institution-affiliated parties. These enforcement actions may be initiated for violations of laws and regulations and unsafe or unsound practices. In some cases, regulatory agencies may take supervisory actions that may not be publicly disclosed, which restrict or limit a financial institution. Finally, as part of Fifth Third’s regular examination process, the Bancorp and the Bank’s respective regulators may advise it and its banking subsidiary to operate under various restrictions as a prudential matter. Such supervisory actions or restrictions, if and in whatever manner imposed, could negatively affect Fifth Third’s ability to engage in new activities and certain transactions, as well as have a material adverse effect on Fifth Third’s business and results of operations and may not be publicly disclosed. Fifth Third could face serious negative consequences if its third-party service providers, business partners or investments fail to comply with applicable laws, rules or regulations. Fifth Third is expected to oversee the legal and regulatory compliance of its business endeavors, including those performed by third-party service providers, business partners, other vendors and certain companies in which Fifth Third has invested. Legal authorities and regulators could hold Fifth Third responsible for failures by these parties to comply with applicable laws, rules or regulations. These failures could expose Fifth Third to significant litigation or regulatory action that could limit its activities or impose significant fines or other financial losses. Additionally, Fifth Third could be subject to significant litigation from consumers or other parties harmed by these failures and could suffer significant losses of business and revenue, as well as reputational harm as a result of these failures. As a regulated entity, the Bancorp is subject to certain capital requirements that may limit its operations, potential growth and ability to pay or increase dividends on its common stock or to repurchase its capital stock. As a BHC and an FHC, the Bancorp is subject to the comprehensive, consolidated supervision and regulation of the FRB, including risk-based and leverage capital requirements, investment practices, dividend policy and growth. The Bancorp must maintain certain risk-based and leverage capital ratios as required by the FRB which can change depending upon general economic conditions and the Bancorp’s particular condition, risk profile and growth plans. Compliance with the capital requirements, including leverage ratios, may limit operations that require the intensive use of capital and could adversely affect the Bancorp’s ability to expand or maintain present business levels. Failure by the Bank to meet applicable capital requirements could subject it to a variety of enforcement actions available to the federal regulatory authorities. These include limitations on the ability of the Bancorp to pay dividends and/or repurchase shares, the issuance by the regulatory authority of a capital directive to increase capital, loss of FHC status and the termination of deposit insurance by the FDIC. The Bancorp is subject to the stress capital buffer requirement and must maintain capital ratios above its buffered minimum (regulatory minimum plus stress capital buffer) in order to avoid certain limitations on capital distributions and discretionary bonuses to executive officers. The FRB uses the supervisory stress test to determine the Bancorp’s stress capital buffer, subject to a floor of 2.5%. The Bancorp’s stress capital buffer requirement has been 2.5% since the introduction of this framework and was most recently affirmed as part of the FRB’s 2022 supervisory stress test for the period from October 1, 2022 to September 30, 2023, based on the Bancorp’s 2022 supervisory stress 39 Fifth Third Bancorp testing results, subject to potential adjustments by the FRB. Further changes to applicable capital and liquidity requirements could result in unexpected or new limitations on the Bancorp’s ability to pay dividends and engage in share repurchases. Regulation of Fifth Third by the CFTC imposes additional operational and compliance costs. The CFTC and SEC are primarily responsible for regulation of the U.S. derivatives markets. While most of the provisions related to derivatives markets are now in effect, several additional requirements await final regulations from the relevant regulatory agencies for derivatives, including the CFTC and the SEC. As a result of this regulatory regime, the CFTC has a meaningful supervisory role with respect to some of Fifth Third’s businesses. The Bank is provisionally registered as a swap dealer with the CFTC and is subject to certain requirements, including real time trade reporting and robust record keeping requirements, business conduct requirements (including daily valuations, disclosure of material risks associated with swaps and disclosure of material incentives and conflicts of interest) and mandatory clearing and exchange trading of certain swaps designated by the relevant regulatory agencies as required to be cleared. Fifth Third’s derivatives activity is also subject to the U.S. banking regulators’ margin and segregation requirements for uncleared swaps. These requirements collectively impose implementation and ongoing compliance burdens on Fifth Third and introduce additional legal risk, including as a result of antifraud and anti-manipulation provisions and private rights of action. These rules raise the costs and liquidity burden associated with Fifth Third’s derivatives activities and could have an adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. For more information, refer to Regulation and Supervision—Derivatives in Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Deposit insurance premiums levied against the Bank may increase if the number of bank failures increase or the cost of resolving failed banks increases. The FDIC maintains a Deposit Insurance Fund (“DIF”) to protect insured depositors in the event of bank failures. The DIF is funded by fees assessed on insured depository institutions including the Bank. Future deposit premiums paid by the Bank depend on FDIC rules, which are subject to change, the level of the DIF and the magnitude and cost of future bank failures. The Bank may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums if market developments change such that the DIF balance is reduced or the FDIC changes its rules to require higher premiums. If an orderly liquidation of a systemically important BHC or non-bank financial company were triggered, Fifth Third could face assessments for the Orderly Liquidation Fund. Dodd-Frank created authority for the orderly liquidation of systemically important BHCs and non-bank financial companies and is based on the FDIC’s bank resolution model. The Secretary of the U.S. Treasury may trigger liquidation under this authority only after consultation with the President of the United States and after receiving a recommendation from the board of the FDIC and the FRB upon a two-thirds vote. Liquidation proceedings will be funded by the Orderly Liquidation Fund established under Dodd-Frank, which will borrow from the U.S. Treasury and impose risk-based assessments on covered financial companies. Risk-based assessments would be made, first, on entities that received more in the resolution than they would have received in the liquidation to the extent of such excess and second, if necessary, on, among others, bank holding companies with total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more, such as Fifth Third. Any such assessments may adversely affect Fifth Third’s business, financial condition or results of operations. MARKET RISKS: INTEREST RATE RISKS AND PRICE RISKS The replacement of LIBOR could adversely affect Fifth Third’s revenue or expenses and the value of those assets or obligations. London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) and certain other “benchmarks” are the subject of recent national, international and other regulatory guidance and proposals for reform. These reforms may cause such benchmarks to perform differently than in the past or have other consequences which cannot be predicted. On July 27, 2017, the United Kingdom’s Financial Conduct Authority (the “FCA”), which regulates LIBOR, publicly announced that it would stop persuading or compelling banks to submit LIBOR rates after 2021. Since then, central banks around the world, including the Federal Reserve, have commissioned working groups of market participants and official sector representatives with the goal of finding suitable replacements for LIBOR. On March 5, 2021, the FCA and ICE Benchmark Administration, Limited announced that the publication of the one-week and two-month U.S. Dollar (“USD”) LIBOR maturities and non-USD LIBOR maturities would cease immediately after December 31, 2021, with the remaining USD LIBOR maturities ceasing immediately after June 30, 2023. In the United States, the Alternative Rates Reference Committee (the “ARRC”), a group of market participants convened in 2014 to help ensure a successful transition away from USD LIBOR, identified the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (“SOFR”) as its preferred alternative rate. SOFR is a broad measure of the cost of borrowing cash overnight collateralized by Treasury securities, given the depth and robustness of the U.S. Treasury repurchase market. The composition and characteristics of SOFR are not the same as those of LIBOR, and SOFR is fundamentally different from LIBOR for two key reasons: (1) SOFR is a secured rate, while LIBOR is an unsecured rate, and (2) SOFR is an overnight rate, while LIBOR is a forward-looking rate that represents interbank funding over different maturities. Notably, other countries are introducing their own local-currency-denominated alternative reference rates for short-term lending, such as the Sterling Overnight Index Average (“SONIA”), the Swiss Average Rate Overnight (“SARON”), and the Tokyo Overnight Average Rate (“TONAR”), among others. On March 15, 2022, President Biden signed the Adjustable Interest Rate (LIBOR) Act (the “LIBOR Act”) into law. The LIBOR Act offers a federal solution for transitioning legacy instruments that lack sufficient provisions addressing LIBOR’s cessation by outlining a uniform process to govern the transition from LIBOR to a replacement rate. The LIBOR Act also establishes a safe harbor for lenders, shielding lenders from litigation as a result of their choice of a replacement rate (such as SOFR) per FRB recommendations. On December 16, 2022, the FRB issued its final regulations which carry out the terms of the LIBOR Act. These regulations: (i) address the applicability of the LIBOR Act to various LIBOR contracts, (ii) identify the 40 Fifth Third Bancorp FRB-selected benchmark replacements for various types of LIBOR contracts, (iii) include certain benchmark replacement conforming changes, (iv) address the issue of preemption and (v) provide other clarifications, definitions and information. The regulations will become effective on February 27, 2023, which is thirty (30) days after the regulations were published in the Federal Register. The market transition away from LIBOR to an alternative reference rate, such as SOFR, is complex and subjects Fifth Third to financial, legal and operational risks. In particular, any such transition could: • adversely affect the interest rates paid or received on, and the revenue and expenses associated with, the Bancorp’s floating rate obligations, loans, deposits, derivatives and other financial instruments tied to LIBOR rates, or other securities or financial arrangements given LIBOR’s role in determining market interest rates globally; • adversely affect the value of the Bancorp’s floating rate obligations, loans, deposits, derivatives and other financial instruments tied to LIBOR rates, or other securities or financial arrangements given LIBOR’s role in determining market interest rates globally; • prompt inquiries or other actions from regulators in respect of the Bancorp’s preparation and readiness for the replacement of LIBOR with an alternative reference rate; • result in disputes, litigation or other actions with counterparties regarding the interpretation and enforceability of certain fallback language in LIBOR-based securities; and • require the transition to or development of appropriate systems and analytics to effectively transition the Bancorp’s risk management processes from LIBOR-based products to those based on the applicable alternative pricing benchmark, such as SOFR or reformed SONIA. The manner and impact of this transition, as well as the effect of these developments on Fifth Third’s funding costs, loan and investment and trading securities portfolios, asset-liability management, and business, is uncertain. Weakness in the U.S. economy, including within Fifth Third’s geographic footprint, has adversely affected Fifth Third in the past and may adversely affect Fifth Third in the future. Fifth Third has been, and will continue to be, impacted by general business and economic conditions in the United States. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, money supply, political issues, legislative and regulatory changes, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets, broad trends in industry and finance, unemployment and the strength of the U.S. economy and the local economies in which Fifth Third operates, all of which are beyond Fifth Third’s control. Deterioration or continued weakness in any of these conditions could result in a decrease in demand for Fifth Third’s products and services. Worldwide financial markets have recently experienced periods of extraordinary disruption and volatility, which have been driven by factors such as the COVID-19 pandemic and the Russia/Ukraine conflict, resulting in heightened credit risk, reduced valuation of investments, decreased economic activity, heightened risk of cyberattacks, and inflation. Moreover, many companies have experienced reduced liquidity and uncertainty as to their ability to raise capital during such periods of market disruption and volatility. In the event that these conditions recur or result in a prolonged economic downturn, Fifth Third’s results of operations, financial position and/or liquidity could be materially and adversely affected. These market conditions may affect the Bancorp’s ability to access debt and equity capital markets. In addition, as a result of recent financial and political events, Fifth Third may face increased regulation. Many of the other risk factors discussed in this Risk Factors section identify risks that result from, or are impacted by, a financial economic downturn. These include risks related to Fifth Third’s investments portfolio, the competitive environment and regulatory developments. Global and domestic political, social and economic uncertainties and changes may adversely affect Fifth Third. Global financial markets, including the United States, face political and economic uncertainties (such as recent budget deficit concerns and political conflict over legislation to raise the U.S. government’s debt limit) that may delay investment and hamper economic activity. International events such as trade disputes, separatist movements, leadership changes and political and military conflicts (such as the ongoing military tension between Russia and Ukraine) could adversely affect global financial activity and markets and could negatively affect the U.S. economy. Additionally, the FRB and other major central banks have begun the process of removing or reducing monetary accommodation, increasing the risk of recession and may also negatively impact asset values and credit spreads that were impacted by extraordinary monetary stimulus. These potential negative effects on financial markets and economic activity could lead to reduced revenues, increased costs, increased credit risks and volatile markets, could adversely impact Fifth Third’s ability to raise liquidity via money and capital markets, and could negatively impact Fifth Third’s businesses, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in interest rates could affect Fifth Third’s income and cash flows . Fifth Third’s income and cash flows depend to a great extent on the difference between the interest rates earned on interest-earning assets such as loans and investment securities and the interest rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond Fifth Third’s control, including general economic conditions in the U.S. or abroad and the policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies (in particular, the FRB). Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates and inflation, could influence the origination of loans, the prepayment speed of loans, the purchase of investments, the generation of deposits and the rates received on loans and investment securities and paid on deposits or other sources of funding as well as customers’ ability to repay loans. For example, a tightening of the money supply by the FRB could reduce the demand for a borrower’s products and services. This could adversely affect the borrower’s earnings and ability to repay a loan, which could have a material adverse effect on Fifth Third’s financial condition and results of operations. The impact of these changes may be magnified if Fifth Third does not effectively manage the relative sensitivity of its assets and liabilities to changes in market interest rates. Fluctuations in these areas may adversely affect 41 Fifth Third Bancorp Fifth Third, its customers and its shareholders. In response to the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic and its economic consequences, the FRB lowered its target for the federal funds rate to a range of 0% to 0.25%, but a recent pronounced rise in inflation has prompted the FRB to raise certain benchmark interest rates to combat it. As inflation increases and market interest rates rise, the value of Fifth Third’s investment securities, particularly those that have fixed rates or longer maturities, could decrease. Increasing rates would also increase debt service requirements for some of Fifth Third’s borrowers and may adversely affect those borrowers’ ability to pay as contractually obligated and could result in additional delinquencies or charge-offs. Further, the increase in market interest rates is likely to reduce Fifth Third’s loan origination volume, particularly refinance volume, and/or reduce its interest rate spread, which could have an adverse effect on Fifth Third’s profitability and results of operations. Conversely, a lowering in interest rates would likely further reduce the interest Fifth Third earns on loans and other earning assets. Fifth Third cannot predict the nature or timing of future changes in monetary policies or the precise effects that they may have on Fifth Third’s activities and financial results. Changes and trends in the capital markets may affect Fifth Third’s income and cash flows. Fifth Third enters into and maintains trading and investment positions in the capital markets on its own behalf and manages investment positions on behalf of its customers. These investment positions include derivative financial instruments. The revenues and profits Fifth Third derives from managing proprietary and customer trading and investment positions are dependent on market prices. Market changes and trends may result in a decline in wealth and asset management revenue or investment or trading losses that may impact Fifth Third. Losses on behalf of its customers could expose Fifth Third to reputational issues, litigation, credit risks or loss of revenue from those clients and customers. Additionally, losses in Fifth Third’s trading and investment positions could lead to a loss with respect to those investments and may adversely affect Fifth Third’s income, cash flows and funding costs. Fifth Third’s stock price is volatile. Fifth Third’s stock price has been volatile in the past and several factors could cause the price to fluctuate substantially in the future. These factors include, without limitation: • actual or anticipated variations in earnings; • changes in analysts’ recommendations or projections; • Fifth Third’s announcements of developments related to its businesses; • operating and stock performance of other companies deemed to be peers; • actions by government regulators and changes in the regulatory regime; • new technology used or services offered by traditional and non-traditional competitors; • news reports of trends, concerns and other issues related to the financial services industry; • U.S. and global economic conditions; • natural disasters; • geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism, military conflicts and withdrawal from the EU by EU member countries. The price for shares of Fifth Third’s common stock may fluctuate significantly in the future, and these fluctuations may be unrelated to Fifth Third’s performance. General market price declines or market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price for shares of Fifth Third’s common stock and the current market price of such shares may not be indicative of future market prices. Fifth Third’s mortgage banking net revenue can be volatile from quarter to quarter. Fifth Third earns revenue from the fees it receives for originating mortgage loans and for servicing mortgage loans. When rates rise, the demand for mortgage loans tends to fall, reducing the revenue Fifth Third receives from loan originations. At the same time, revenue from mortgage servicing rights (“MSR”) can increase through increases in fair value. When rates fall, mortgage originations tend to increase and the value of MSRs tends to decline, also with some offsetting revenue effect. Even though the origination of mortgage loans can act as a “natural hedge,” the hedge is not perfect, either in amount or timing. For example, the negative effect on revenue from a decrease in the fair value of residential MSRs is immediate, but any offsetting revenue benefit from more originations and the MSRs relating to the new loans would accrue over time. It is also possible that even if interest rates were to fall, mortgage originations may also fall or any increase in mortgage originations may not be enough to offset the decrease in the MSRs value caused by the lower rates. Fifth Third typically uses derivatives and other instruments to hedge its mortgage banking interest rate and price risks. Fifth Third generally does not hedge all of its risks and the fact that Fifth Third attempts to hedge any of the risks does not mean Fifth Third will be successful. Hedging is a complex process, requiring sophisticated models and constant monitoring. Fifth Third may use hedging instruments tied to U.S. Treasury rates, LIBOR, SOFR or Eurodollars that may not perfectly correlate with the value or income being hedged. Fifth Third could incur significant losses from its hedging activities. There may be periods where Fifth Third elects not to use derivatives and other instruments to hedge mortgage banking interest rate and price risks. STRATEGIC RISKS If Fifth Third does not respond to intense competition and rapid changes in the financial services industry or otherwise adapt to changing customer preferences, its financial performance may suffer. Fifth Third’s ability to deliver strong financial performance and returns on investment to shareholders will depend in part on its ability to expand the scope of available financial services to meet the needs and demands of its customers. In addition to the challenge of competing 42 Fifth Third Bancorp against other banks in attracting and retaining customers for traditional banking services, Fifth Third’s competitors also include securities dealers, brokers, mortgage bankers, investment advisors and specialty finance, telecommunications, technology and insurance companies as well as large retailers who seek to offer one-stop financial services in addition to other products and services desired by consumers that may include services that banks have not been able or allowed to offer to their customers in the past or may not be currently able or allowed to offer. Many of these other firms may be significantly larger than Fifth Third and may have access to customers and financial resources that are beyond Fifth Third’s capability. Fifth Third competes with these firms with respect to capital, access to capital, revenue generation, products, services, transaction execution, innovation, reputation, talent and price. This increasingly competitive environment is primarily a result of changes in customer preferences, regulation, changes in technology and product delivery systems, as well as the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial service providers. Rapidly changing technology and consumer preferences may require Fifth Third to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services in order to compete and meet customer demands. Fifth Third may not be able to do so or be successful in marketing these products and services to its customers. As a result, Fifth Third’s ability to effectively compete to retain or acquire new business may be impaired, and its business, financial condition or results of operations, may be adversely affected. Fifth Third may make strategic investments and may expand an existing line of business or enter into new lines of business to remain competitive. If Fifth Third’s chosen strategies are not appropriate to allow Fifth Third to effectively compete or Fifth Third does not execute them in an appropriate or timely manner, Fifth Third’s business and results may suffer. Additionally, these strategies, products and lines of business may bring with them unforeseeable or unforeseen risks and may not generate the expected results or returns, which could adversely affect Fifth Third’s results of operations or future growth prospects and cause Fifth Third to fail to meet its stated goals and expectations. Changes in retail distribution strategies and consumer behavior may adversely impact Fifth Third’s investments in its bank premises and equipment and other assets and may lead to increased expenditures to change its retail distribution channel. Fifth Third has significant investments in bank premises and equipment for its branch network including its 1,087 full-service banking centers, 14 parcels of land held for the development of future banking centers and 45 properties that are developed or in the process of being developed as branches, as well as its retail work force and other branch banking assets. Advances in technology such as e-commerce, telephone, internet and mobile banking, and in-branch self-service technologies including automatic teller machines and other equipment, as well as changing work arrangements and customer preferences for these other methods of accessing Fifth Third’s products and services, could affect the value of Fifth Third’s branch network or other retail distribution assets and may cause it to change its retail distribution strategy, close and/or sell certain branches or parcels of land held for development and restructure or reduce its remaining branches and work force. Further advances in technology and/or changes in customer preferences could have additional changes in Fifth Third’s retail distribution strategy and/or branch network. These actions could lead to losses on these assets or could adversely impact the carrying value of other long-lived assets and may lead to increased expenditures to renovate and reconfigure remaining branches or to otherwise reform its retail distribution channel. Difficulties in identifying suitable opportunities or combining the operations of acquired entities or assets with Fifth Third’s own operations or assessing the effectiveness of businesses in which Fifth Third makes strategic investments or with which Fifth Third enters into strategic contractual relationships may prevent Fifth Third from achieving the expected benefits from these acquisitions, investments or relationships. Inherent uncertainties exist when assessing, acquiring or integrating the operations of another business or investment or relationship opportunity. Fifth Third may not be able to fully achieve its strategic objectives and planned operating efficiencies relevant to an acquisition or strategic relationship. In addition, the markets and industries in which Fifth Third and its potential acquisition and investment targets operate are highly competitive. Acquisition or investment targets may lose customers or otherwise perform poorly or unprofitably, or in the case of an acquired business or strategic relationship, cause Fifth Third to lose customers or perform poorly or unprofitably. Future acquisition and investment activities and efforts to monitor newly acquired businesses or reap the benefits of a new strategic relationship may require Fifth Third to devote substantial time and resources and may cause these acquisitions, investments and relationships to be unprofitable or cause Fifth Third to be unable to pursue other business opportunities. After completing an acquisition, Fifth Third may find that certain material information was not adequately disclosed during the due diligence process or that certain items were not accounted for properly in accordance with financial accounting and reporting standards. Fifth Third may also not realize the expected benefits of the acquisition due to lower financial results pertaining to the acquired entity or assets. For example, Fifth Third could experience higher charge-offs than originally anticipated related to the acquired loan portfolio. Additionally, acquired companies or businesses may increase Fifth Third’s risk of regulatory action or restrictions related to the operations of the acquired business. Future acquisitions may dilute current shareholders’ ownership of Fifth Third and may cause Fifth Third to become more susceptible to adverse economic events. Future business acquisitions could be material to Fifth Third and it may issue additional shares of stock to pay for those acquisitions, which would dilute current shareholders’ ownership interests. Acquisitions also could require Fifth Third to use substantial cash or other liquid assets or to incur debt. In those events, Fifth Third could become more susceptible to economic downturns, dislocations in capital markets and competitive pressures. 43 Fifth Third Bancorp Fifth Third may sell or consider selling one or more of its businesses or investments. Should it determine to sell such a business or investment, it may not be able to generate gains on sale or related increases in shareholders’ equity commensurate with desirable levels. Moreover, if Fifth Third sold such businesses or investments, the loss of income could have an adverse effect on its earnings and future growth. Fifth Third owns, or owns a minority stake in, as applicable, several non-strategic businesses, investments and other assets that are not significantly synergistic with its core financial services businesses or, in the future, may no longer be aligned with Fifth Third’s strategic plans or regulatory expectations. If Fifth Third were to sell one or more of its businesses or investments, it would be subject to market forces that may affect the timing or pricing of such sale or result in an unsuccessful sale. If Fifth Third were to complete the sale of any of its businesses, investments and/or interests in third parties, it would lose the income from the sold businesses and/or interests, including those accounted for under the equity method of accounting, and such loss of income could have an adverse effect on its future earnings and growth. Additionally, Fifth Third may encounter difficulties in separating the operations of any businesses it sells, which may affect its business or results of operations. REPUTATION RISKS Damage to Fifth Third’s reputation could harm its business. Fifth Third’s actual or alleged conduct in activities, such as certain sales and lending practices, data security, corporate governance and acquisitions, inappropriate behavior or misconduct of employees, failure to deliver minimum or required standards of service or quality, association with particular customers, business partners, investments or vendors, as well as developments from any of the other risks described above, may result in negative public opinion at large (or with certain segments of the public) and may damage Fifth Third’s reputation. Actions taken by government regulators, shareholder activists and community organizations may also damage Fifth Third’s reputation. Additionally, whereas negative public opinion once was primarily driven by adverse news coverage in traditional media, the advent and expansion of social media facilitates the rapid dissemination of information or misinformation. Though Fifth Third monitors social media channels, the potential remains for rapid and widespread dissemination of inaccurate, misleading or false information or other negative information that could damage Fifth Third’s reputation. Negative public opinion can adversely affect Fifth Third’s ability to attract and keep customers and can increase the risk that it will be a target of litigation and regulatory action. Fifth Third is subject to environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) risks that could adversely affect its reputation, the trading price of its common stock and/or its business, operations, and earnings. Certain organizations that provide corporate governance and other corporate risk information to investors and shareholders have developed scores and ratings to evaluate companies based upon ESG metrics. Currently, there are no universal standards for such scores or ratings, but ESG evaluations are becoming more important to the reputation and success of many businesses, including financial institutions. Views about ESG-related issues are diverse, dynamic, and rapidly changing, and if Fifth Third were to fail to maintain appropriate ESG practices and disclosures or be subject to certain ESG scores or ratings, Fifth Third could face potential negative ESG-related publicity in traditional and social media, including based on the identity of those Fifth Third chooses to do business with and the public’s view of those customers. If Fifth Third or its relationships with customers, vendors and suppliers were to become the subject of such negative publicity, Fifth Third’s ability to attract and retain customers and employees may be negatively impacted and its stock price may also be impacted. Companies are facing increasing scrutiny from customers, regulators, investors, and other stakeholders related to their ESG practices and disclosure. For Fifth Third and others in the financial services industry, this focus extends to the practices and disclosures of the customers, counterparties, and service providers with whom Fifth Third chooses to do business. Investor advocacy groups, investment funds and influential investors are also increasingly focused on these practices, especially as they relate to the environment, health and safety, diversity, labor conditions and human rights, and certain investors are beginning to incorporate the business risks and opportunities of climate change and the adequacy of companies’ responses to climate change and other ESG matters as part of their investment theses. New government regulations could also result in new or more stringent forms of ESG oversight and expand mandatory and voluntary reporting, diligence and disclosure. Failure to adapt to or comply with regulatory requirements or investor or stakeholder expectations and standards could negatively impact Fifth Third’s reputation, ability to do business with certain partners, access to capital, and its stock price. While Fifth Third has sustainability and corporate responsibility initiatives there can be no assurance that regulators, customers, investors, and employees will determine that these programs are sufficiently robust. In addition, there can be no assurance that Fifth Third will be able to attain its announced goals related to its sustainability and corporate responsibility programs, as statements regarding its goals reflect Fifth Third’s current plans and aspirations and are not guarantees that it will be able to achieve them within the timelines it announces or at all. Actual or perceived shortcomings with respect to these ESG initiatives and reporting can impact Fifth Third’s ability to hire and retain employees, increase its customer base, or attract and retain certain types of investors. In addition, certain organizations that provide corporate governance and other corporate risk information to investors and shareholders have developed scores and ratings to evaluate companies based upon ESG metrics. Collecting, measuring, and reporting ESG information and metrics can be costly, difficult and time consuming, is subject to evolving reporting standards, and can present numerous operational, reputational, financial, legal and other risks, any of which could have a material impact, including on Fifth Third’s reputation and stock price. Inadequate processes to collect and review this information prior to disclosure could be subject to potential liability related to such information. 44 Fifth Third Bancorp Activists are increasingly targeting financial firms with public criticism for their relationships with clients that are engaged in certain industries (such as those which are carbon intensive), including businesses whose products are or are perceived to be harmful to health, the environment, the global climate, or the social good. Activist criticism of Fifth Third’s relationships with clients in sensitive industries could potentially engender dissatisfaction among stakeholders with how Fifth Third addresses environmental or social concerns through business activities which could negatively affect its business or reputation. Conversely, states throughout the Bank’s footprint have taken actions or proposed measures to limit the state’s ability to do business with financial institutions or other businesses identified as discriminating against certain industries (such as those which are carbon intensive) or practices based on environmental or social criteria. Although Fifth Third has a defined risk management approach for client selection, Fifth Third could be inherently exposed to reputational, financial and legal risk, and its ability to retain and attract customers and employees may be negatively impacted as a result of these contrasting arguments in how a financial institution should address these issues. GENERAL BUSINESS RISKS Changes in accounting standards or interpretations could impact Fifth Third’s reported earnings and financial condition. The accounting standard setters, including the FASB, the SEC and other regulatory agencies, periodically change the financial accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of Fifth Third’s consolidated financial statements. These changes can be hard to predict and can materially impact how Fifth Third records and reports its financial condition and results of operations. In some cases, Fifth Third could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, which would result in the recasting of Fifth Third’s prior period financial statements. Fifth Third uses models for business planning purposes that may not adequately predict future results. Fifth Third uses financial models to aid in its planning for various purposes including its capital and liquidity needs and other purposes. The models used may not accurately account for all variables, may fail to predict outcomes accurately, and/or may overstate or understate certain effects. As a result of these potential failures, Fifth Third may not adequately prepare for future events and may suffer losses or other setbacks due to these failures. Also, information Fifth Third provides to the public or to its regulators based on models could be inaccurate or misleading due to inadequate design or implementation, for example. Decisions that its regulators make, including those related to capital distributions to its shareholders, could be affected adversely due to the perception that the models used to generate the relevant information are unreliable or inadequate. The preparation of financial statements requires Fifth Third to make subjective determinations and use estimates that may vary from actual results and materially impact its results of operations or financial position. The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make significant estimates that affect the financial statements. If new information arises that results in a material change to a reserve amount, such a change could result in a change to previously announced financial results. Refer to the Critical Accounting Policies section of Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation for more information regarding management’s significant estimates. The effects of global climate change, natural disasters or health emergencies may have an effect on the performance of Fifth Third’s loan portfolios, thereby adversely impacting its results of operations. Fifth Third’s footprint stretches from the upper Midwestern to lower Southeastern regions of the United States and it has offices in many other areas of the country. Some of these regions have experienced weather events including hurricanes, tornadoes, fires and other natural disasters. The nature and level of these events and the impact of global climate change upon their frequency and severity cannot be predicted. If large scale events occur, they may significantly impact its loan portfolios by damaging properties pledged as collateral as well as impairing its borrowers’ ability to repay their loans. Additionally, the impact of widespread health emergencies may adversely impact Fifth Third’s results of operations, such as the potential impact from the COVID-19 pandemic. If its borrowers are adversely affected due to a widespread health emergency that impacts Fifth Third employees, vendors or economic growth generally, Fifth Third’s financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Societal responses to climate change could adversely affect Fifth Third’s business and performance, including indirectly through impacts on Fifth Third’s customers. Concerns over the long-term impacts of climate change have led and may continue to lead to governmental efforts around the world to mitigate those impacts. Consumers and businesses also may change their behavior on their own as a result of these concerns. Fifth Third and its customers will need to respond to new laws and regulations, as well as consumer and business preferences resulting from climate change concerns. Fifth Third and its customers may face cost increases, asset value reductions, operating process changes, and the like. The impact on Fifth Third’s customers will likely vary depending on their specific attributes, including reliance on or role in carbon intensive activities that may be negatively affected by economic transition towards a lower-carbon economy. Fifth Third could experience a drop in demand for its products and services, particularly in certain sectors. In addition, Fifth Third could face reductions in creditworthiness on the part of some customers or in the value of assets securing loans. Fifth Third’s efforts to take these risks into account in making lending and other decisions, 45 Fifth Third Bancorp including by increasing business relationships with climate-friendly companies, may not be effective in protecting Fifth Third from the negative impact of new laws and regulations or changes in consumer or business behavior. Potential noncompliance with evolving federal and state laws governing cannabis-related businesses (“CRBs”) could subject Fifth Third to liabilities. While a significant majority of states have legalized some form of marijuana, it remains a Schedule I controlled substance under federal law. Hemp is no longer classified as a Schedule I controlled substance under federal law; however, the regulatory scheme governing hemp has not been fully developed. Further, the “naked eye” cannot distinguish between legal hemp and illegal marijuana under federal law. There are a number of states where Fifth Third operates with laws permitting medicinal or recreational marijuana, which increases the probability of individuals or entities using bank products or services to sell, distribute, cultivate, manufacture or profit from marijuana. This, and the divergence and continued changes in laws governing CRBs results in challenges to Fifth Third to maintain compliance with them, particularly in connection with Fifth Third's commercial and consumer lending and capital markets businesses. While Fifth Third monitors regulatory developments in this area to avoid noncompliance, Fifth Third cannot assure that it will be at all times fully compliant with CRB-related laws, which could result in significant fines, penalties or other losses. The COVID-19 pandemic creates significant risks and uncertainties for Fifth Third’s business. In March 2020, the World Health Organization declared novel coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) a global pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic negatively impacted the global economy, disrupted global supply chains, created significant volatility and disruption in financial markets and increased unemployment levels, all of which may again become heightened concerns upon subsequent waves of infection or future developments. In addition, an increase in the remote work force resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic and the potential for a long-term change in remote work practices may also increase risks related to cybersecurity and information security. The operation of a hybrid workplace may negatively impact Fifth Third’s ability to attract and retain qualified personnel. Differences in the demands, expectations and priorities of the workforce may require Fifth Third to rethink and amend its recruiting and retention strategies in order to attract and keep new employees. The extent to which the consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic continue to impact the Bancorp’s business, results of operations, and financial condition, as well as its regulatory capital and liquidity ratios, will depend on highly uncertain future developments, including the scope and duration of the pandemic (including the possibility of further surges of COVID-19 and any virus variants, which may or may not respond to available vaccinations), the timing and efficacy of the vaccination program in the U.S. and further actions taken by governmental authorities and other third parties in response to the pandemic. Government actions to mitigate the economic suffering caused by the COVID-19 pandemic may not be successful or may result in increased pressure on the banking sector, which could adversely affect the Bancorp’s business, results of operations and financial condition more substantially over a longer period of time. In addition, the unique historical nature of the pandemic and the unprecedented level of governmental response may also significantly impact the Bancorp’s ability to effectively manage its business or predict future performance. The Biden Administration announced that May 11, 2023 will be the final day of the COVID-19 public health emergency declaration. As the COVID-19 pandemic subsides, the U.S. economy may require some time to fully recover from its effects, the length of which is unknown. The effects of the COVID-19 pandemic may heighten many of the other risks described in Item 1A. Risk Factors of the Bancorp’s Annual Report on Form 10-K and any subsequent Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q or Current Report on Form 8-K, including, but not limited to, risks of credit deterioration, interest rate changes, rating agency actions, governmental actions, market volatility, theft, fraud, security breaches and technology interruptions. 46 Fifth Third Bancorp

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following is Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of certain significant factors that have affected Fifth Third Bancorp’s (the “Bancorp” or “Fifth Third”) financial condition and results of operations during the periods included in the Consolidated Financial Statements, which are a part of this filing. Reference to the Bancorp incorporates the parent holding company and all consolidated subsidiaries. The Bancorp’s banking subsidiary is referred to as the Bank. OVERVIEW This overview of MD&A highlights selected information in the financial results of the Bancorp and may not contain all of the information that is important to you. For a more complete understanding of trends, events, commitments, uncertainties, liquidity, capital resources and critical accounting policies and estimates, you should carefully read this entire document. Each of these items could have an impact on the Bancorp’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, refer to the Glossary of Abbreviations and Acronyms in this report for a list of terms included as a tool for the reader of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The abbreviations and acronyms identified therein are used throughout this MD&A, as well as the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Net interest income, net interest margin, net interest rate spread and the efficiency ratio are presented in MD&A on an FTE basis. The FTE basis adjusts for the tax-favored status of income from certain loans and leases and securities held by the Bancorp that are not taxable for federal income tax purposes. The Bancorp believes this presentation to be the preferred industry measurement of net interest income as it provides a relevant comparison between taxable and non-taxable amounts. The FTE basis for presenting net interest income is a non-GAAP measure. For further information, refer to the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section of MD&A. The Bancorp’s revenues are dependent on both net interest income and noninterest income. For the year ended December 31, 2022, net interest income on an FTE basis and noninterest income provided 67% and 33% of total revenue, respectively. The Bancorp derives the majority of its revenues within the U.S. from customers domiciled in the U.S. Revenue from foreign countries and external customers domiciled in foreign countries was immaterial to the Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended December 31, 2022. Changes in interest rates, credit quality, economic trends and the capital markets are primary factors that drive the performance of the Bancorp. As discussed later in the Risk Management section of MD&A, risk identification, measurement, monitoring, control and reporting are important to the management of risk and to the financial performance and capital strength of the Bancorp. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on assets such as loans, leases and securities, and interest expense incurred on liabilities such as deposits, other short-term borrowings and long-term debt. Net interest income is affected by the general level of interest rates, the relative level of short-term and long-term interest rates, changes in interest rates and changes in the amount and composition of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. Generally, the rates of interest the Bancorp earns on its assets and pays on its liabilities are established for a period of time. The change in market interest rates over time exposes the Bancorp to interest rate risk through potential adverse changes to net interest income and financial position. The Bancorp manages this risk by continually analyzing and adjusting the composition of its assets and liabilities based on their payment streams and interest rates, the timing of their maturities and their sensitivity to changes in market interest rates. Additionally, in the ordinary course of business, the Bancorp enters into certain derivative transactions as part of its overall strategy to manage its interest rate and prepayment risks. The Bancorp is also exposed to the risk of loss on its loan and lease portfolio as a result of changing expected cash flows caused by borrower credit events, such as loan defaults and inadequate collateral. Noninterest income is derived from service charges on deposits, wealth and asset management revenue, commercial banking revenue, card and processing revenue, leasing business revenue, mortgage banking net revenue, other noninterest income and net securities gains or losses. Noninterest expense includes compensation and benefits, technology and communications, net occupancy expense, equipment expense, leasing business expense, marketing expense, card and processing expense and other noninterest expense. Current Economic Conditions Robust demand, labor shortages and supply chain constraints have led to persistent inflationary pressures throughout the economy. In response to these inflationary pressures, the FRB raised benchmark interest rates and may continue to raise interest rates in response to economic conditions, particularly a continued high rate of inflation. Amidst these uncertainties, some financial markets continued to experience volatility. Changes in interest rates can affect numerous aspects of the Bancorp’s business and may impact the Bancorp’s future performance. If financial markets remain volatile, this may impact the future performance of various segments of the Bancorp’s business, including the value of the Bancorp’s investment securities portfolio. The Bancorp continues to closely monitor the pace of inflation and the impacts of inflation on the larger market, including labor and supply chain impacts. For further discussion on current economic conditions, refer to the Credit Risk Management subsection of the Risk Management section of MD&A. Additionally, refer to the Interest Rate and Price Risk Management subsection of the Risk Management section of MD&A for additional information about the Bancorp’s interest rate risk management activities. 54 Fifth Third Bancorp MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Accelerated Share Repurchase Transactions The Bancorp entered into and settled a number of accelerated share repurchase transactions during the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021. As part of these transactions, the Bancorp entered into forward contracts in which the final number of shares delivered at settlement was based generally on a discount to the average daily volume-weighted average price of the Bancorp’s common stock during the term of these repurchase agreements. Refer to Note 24 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on share repurchase activity. For further information on a subsequent event related to capital actions, refer to Note 32 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Senior Notes Offerings During the year ended December 31, 2022, the Bancorp (including both the parent company and its banking subsidiary) issued and sold fixed-rate/floating-rate senior notes in  a number of debt offerings. These transactions included: • A Bancorp issuance on April 25, 2022 of $1 billion of fixed-rate/floating-rate senior notes which included $400 million of notes maturing on April 25, 2028 and $600 million of notes maturing on April 25, 2033. • A Bancorp issuance o n July 28, 2022 of $1 billion of fixed-rate/floating-rate senior notes maturing on July 28, 2030. • A Bancorp issuance on October 27, 2022 of $1 billion of fixed-rate/floating-rate senior notes maturing on October 27, 2028. • A Bank issuance on October 27, 2022 of $1 billion of fixed-rate/floating-rate senior notes maturing on October 27, 2025. In each of these transactions, the parent company and banking subsidiary entered into interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges to convert the fixed-rate period of the notes to a floating rate of interest. For more information, refer to Note 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Business Combination During the second quarter of 2022, the Bancorp completed the acquisition of a national point-of-sale consumer lender specializing in home improvement and solar energy installation loans originated through a network of contractors and installers. The acquisition was accounted for under the acquisition method of accounting which generally requires assets acquired and liabilities assumed to be recorded at their estimated fair values at acquisition date. These fair value estimates are considered preliminary as of December 31, 2022 and are subject to change for up to one year after the acquisition date as additional information becomes available. For more information on the acquisition, refer to Notes 10 and 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. LIBOR Transition In July 2017, the Chief Executive of the United Kingdom Financial Conduct Authority (the “FCA”), which regulates LIBOR, announced that the FCA would stop persuading or compelling banks to submit rates for the calculation of LIBOR to the administrator of LIBOR after 2021.  Since then, central banks around the world, including the Federal Reserve, have commissioned working groups of market participants and official sector representatives with the goal of finding suitable replacements for LIBOR. On March 5, 2021, the FCA and ICE Benchmark Administration, Limited announced that the publication of the one-week and two-month USD LIBOR maturities and non-USD LIBOR maturities would cease immediately after December 31, 2021, with the remaining USD LIBOR maturities ceasing immediately after June 30, 2023. In the United States, the Alternative Rates Reference Committee (the “ARRC”), a group of market participants convened in 2014 to help ensure a successful transition away from USD LIBOR, identified SOFR as its preferred alternative rate. SOFR is a measure of the cost of borrowing cash overnight, collateralized by U.S. Treasury securities, and is based on directly observable U.S. Treasury-backed repurchase transactions. The composition and characteristics of SOFR are not the same as those of LIBOR, and SOFR is fundamentally different from LIBOR for two key reasons: (1) SOFR is a secured rate, while LIBOR is an unsecured rate, and (2) SOFR is an overnight rate, while LIBOR is a forward-looking rate that represents interbank funding over different maturities. As a result, there can be no assurance that SOFR, however calculated, will perform the same way as LIBOR would have at any time, including, as a result of changes in interest and yield rates in the market, market volatility, or global or regional economic, financial, political, regulatory, judicial or other events. On March 15, 2022, President Biden signed the Adjustable Interest Rate (LIBOR) Act (the “LIBOR Act”) into law. The LIBOR Act offers a federal solution for transitioning legacy instruments that lack sufficient provisions addressing LIBOR’s cessation by outlining a uniform process to govern the transition from LIBOR to a replacement rate. The LIBOR Act also establishes a safe harbor for lenders, shielding lenders from litigation as a result of their choice of a replacement rate (such as SOFR) per FRB recommendations. On December 16, 2022, the FRB issued its final regulations which carry out the terms of the LIBOR Act. These regulations: (i) address the applicability of the LIBOR Act to various LIBOR contracts, (ii) identify the FRB-selected benchmark replacements for various types of LIBOR contracts, (iii) include certain benchmark replacement conforming changes, (iv) address the issue of preemption and (v) provide other clarifications, definitions and information. The regulations will become effective on February 27, 2023, which is thirty (30) days after the regulations were published in the Federal Register. The  Bancorp’s  LIBOR  transition  plan  is  organized  around  key  work  streams,  including  continued  engagement  with  central  banks  and industry working groups and regulators, active client engagement, comprehensive review of legacy documentation, internal operational and technological readiness, and risk management, among other things, to facilitate the transition to alternative reference rates. 55 Fifth Third Bancorp MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Although the full impact of LIBOR reforms and actions remains unclear, the Bancorp has discontinued entering into new LIBOR-based contracts in accordance with regulatory guidance, except for permissible limited use, such as part of hedging and risk management programs. During the fourth quarter of 2021, the Bancorp expanded its offering of alternative reference rate products, including SOFR. In addition, the Bancorp is continuing its transition of existing LIBOR-based exposures to an appropriate alternative reference rate on or before June 30, 2023. As of December 31, 2022, the Bancorp had substantial exposure to LIBOR-based products throughout several of its lines of business. These exposures included derivative contracts with a total notional value of approximately $96 billion, loans outstanding of approximately $24 billion, preferred stock of approximately $1.4 billion and long-term debt of approximately $237 million. The Bancorp currently estimates that approximately 8% of the existing exposures will mature before June 30, 2023. For the contracts that will not mature prior to June 30, 2023, an additional portion of these contracts is subject to contractual terms specifying alternative reference rates (“fallback provisions”) that would become effective upon cessation of LIBOR’s publication. Existing exposures without fallback provisions are expected to either be amended prior to June 30, 2023 to include such provisions or to transition to an alternative reference rate pursuant to the terms of the LIBOR Act and its related regulations. For a further discussion of the various risks the Bancorp faces in connection with the replacement of LIBOR on its operations, see “Risk Factors—Market Risks—The replacement of LIBOR could adversely affect Fifth Third’s revenue or expenses and the value of those assets or obligations.” in Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Key Performance Indicators The Bancorp, as a banking institution, utilizes various key indicators of financial condition and operating results in managing and monitoring the performance of the business. In addition to traditional financial metrics, such as revenue and expense trends, the Bancorp monitors other financial measures that assist in evaluating growth trends, capital strength and operational efficiencies. The Bancorp analyzes these key performance indicators against its past performance, its forecasted performance and with the performance of its peer banking institutions. These indicators may change from time to time as the operating environment and businesses change. The following are some of the key indicators used by management to assess the Bancorp’s business performance, including those which are considered in the Bancorp’s compensation programs: • CET1 Capital Ratio: CET1 capital divided by risk-weighted assets as defined by the Basel III standardized approach to risk-weighting of assets • Return on Average Tangible Common Equity (non-GAAP): Tangible net income available to common shareholders divided by average tangible common equity • Return on Average Common Equity, Excluding AOCI (non-GAAP): Net income available to common shareholders divided by total equity, excluding AOCI and preferred stock • Net Interest Margin (non-GAAP): Net interest income on an FTE basis divided by average interest-earning assets • Efficiency Ratio (non-GAAP): Noninterest expense divided by the sum of net interest income on an FTE basis and noninterest income • Earnings Per Share, Diluted: Net income allocated to common shareholders divided by average common shares outstanding after the effect of dilutive stock-based awards • Nonperforming Portfolio Assets Ratio: Nonperforming portfolio assets divided by portfolio loans and leases and OREO • Net Charge-off Ratio: Net losses charged-off divided by average portfolio loans and leases • Return on Average Assets: Net income divided by average assets • Loan-to-Deposit Ratio: Total loans divided by total deposits • Household Growth: Change in the number of consumer households with retail relationship-based checking accounts The list of indicators above is intended to summarize some of the most important metrics utilized by management in evaluating the Bancorp’s performance and does not represent an all-inclusive list of all performance measures that may be considered relevant or important to management or investors. 56 Fifth Third Bancorp MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (a) Amounts presented on an FTE basis. The FTE adjustments were $16, $12 and $13 for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. (b) These are non-GAAP measures. For further information, refer to the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section of MD&A. Earnings Summary The Bancorp’s net income available to common shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2022 was $2.3 billion, or $3.35 per diluted share, which was net of $116 million in preferred stock dividends. The Bancorp’s net income available to common shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2021 was $2.7 billion, or $3.73 per diluted share, which was net of $111 million in preferred stock dividends. Net interest income on an FTE basis (non-GAAP) was $5.6 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022, an increase of $843 million compared to the prior year. Net interest income benefited from increases in market interest rates, resulting in increases in yields on average loans and leases and average other short-term investments for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the prior year. Net interest income also benefited from increases in average taxable securities and average commercial and industrial loans for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the prior year. These positive impacts were partially offset by an increase in rates paid on average interest-bearing core deposits, an increase in the average balance of FHLB advances and an increase in rates paid on average long-term debt as well as a decrease in interest income recognized from PPP loans for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the prior year. Net interest margin on an FTE basis (non-GAAP) was 3.02% for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to 2.59% for the year ended December 31, 2021. The provision for credit losses was $563 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to a benefit from credit losses of $377 million in the prior year. Provision expense increased for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the prior year primarily driven by factors which caused increases in the ACL during the year ended December 31, 2022 including deterioration in forecasted macroeconomic conditions and higher period-end loan and lease balances, primarily driven by commercial and industrial loan growth, originations of point-of-sale solar energy installation loans in the second half of 2022 and loans acquired in a business acquisition completed in the second quarter of 2022. Net losses charged off as a percent of average portfolio loans and leases were 0.19% and 0.16% for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. At December 31, 2022, nonperforming portfolio assets as a percent of portfolio loans and leases and OREO decreased to 0.44% compared to 0.47% at December 31, 2021. For further discussion on credit quality, refer to the Credit Risk Management subsection of the Risk Management section of MD&A as well as Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Noninterest income decreased $352 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily due to an increase in securities losses as well as decreases in commercial banking revenue, other noninterest income, leasing business revenue and mortgage banking net revenue. Noninterest expense decreased $29 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily due to decreases in compensation and benefits expense and card and processing expense, partially offset by increases in technology and communications, other noninterest expense and marketing expense. For more information on net interest income, noninterest income and noninterest expense, refer to the Statements of Income Analysis section of MD&A. 57 Fifth Third Bancorp MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Capital Summary The Bancorp calculated its regulatory capital ratios under the Basel III standardized approach to risk-weighting of assets and pursuant to the five-year transition provision option to phase in the effects of CECL on regulatory capital as of December 31, 2022. As of December 31, 2022, the Bancorp’s capital ratios, as defined by the U.S. banking agencies, were: • CET1 capital ratio: 9.28%; • Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio: 10.53%; • Total risk-based capital ratio: 12.79%; • Leverage ratio: 8.56% 58 Fifth Third Bancorp MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES The following are non-GAAP financial measures which provide useful insight to the reader of the Consolidated Financial Statements but should be supplemental to primary U.S. GAAP measures and should not be read in isolation or relied upon as a substitute for the primary U.S. GAAP measures. The Bancorp encourages readers to consider its Consolidated Financial Statements in their entirety and not to rely on any single financial measure. The FTE basis adjusts for the tax-favored status of income from certain loans and leases and securities held by the Bancorp that are not taxable for federal income tax purposes. The Bancorp believes this presentation to be the preferred industry measurement of net interest income as it provides a relevant comparison between taxable and non-taxable amounts. The following table reconciles the non-GAAP financial measures of net interest income on an FTE basis, interest income on an FTE basis, net interest margin, net interest rate spread and the efficiency ratio to U.S. GAAP: Pre-provision net revenue is net interest income plus noninterest income minus noninterest expense. The Bancorp believes this measure is important because it provides a ready view of the Bancorp’s pre-tax earnings before the impact of provision expense. The following table reconciles the non-GAAP financial measure of pre-provision net revenue to U.S. GAAP: The Bancorp believes return on average tangible common equity is an important measure for comparative purposes with other financial institutions, but is not defined under U.S. GAAP, and therefore is considered a non-GAAP financial measure. This measure is useful for evaluating the performance of a business as it calculates the return available to common shareholders without the impact of intangible assets and their related amortization. 59 Fifth Third Bancorp MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following table reconciles the non-GAAP financial measure of return on average tangible common equity to U.S. GAAP: The Bancorp considers various measures when evaluating capital utilization and adequacy, including the tangible equity ratio and tangible common equity ratio, in addition to capital ratios defined by the U.S. banking agencies. These calculations are intended to complement the capital ratios defined by the U.S. banking agencies for both absolute and comparative purposes. As U.S. GAAP does not include capital ratio measures, the Bancorp believes there are no comparable U.S. GAAP financial measures to these ratios. These ratios are not formally defined by U.S. GAAP or codified in the federal banking regulations and, therefore, are considered to be non-GAAP financial measures. The following table reconciles non-GAAP capital ratios to U.S. GAAP: 60 Fifth Third Bancorp MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS RECENT ACCOUNTING STANDARDS Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements provides a discussion of the significant new accounting standard applicable to the Bancorp during 2022 and the expected impact of significant accounting standards issued, but not yet required to be adopted. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES The Bancorp’s Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Certain accounting policies require management to exercise judgment in determining methodologies, economic assumptions and estimates that may materially affect the Bancorp’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows. The Bancorp’s critical accounting policies include the accounting for the ALLL, reserve for unfunded commitments, valuation of servicing rights, fair value measurements, goodwill and legal contingencies. There have been no material changes to the valuation techniques or models described below during the year ended December 31, 2022. ALLL The Bancorp disaggregates its portfolio loans and leases into portfolio segments for purposes of determining the ALLL. The Bancorp’s portfolio segments include commercial, residential mortgage and consumer. The Bancorp further disaggregates its portfolio segments into classes for purposes of monitoring and assessing credit quality based on certain risk characteristics. For an analysis of the Bancorp’s ALLL by portfolio segment and credit quality information by class, refer to Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The Bancorp maintains the ALLL to absorb the amount of credit losses that are expected to be incurred over the remaining contractual terms of the related loans and leases. Contractual terms are adjusted for expected prepayments but are not extended for expected extensions, renewals or modifications except in circumstances where the Bancorp reasonably expects to execute a TDR with the borrower or where certain extension or renewal options are embedded in the original contract and not unconditionally cancellable by the Bancorp. Accrued interest receivable on loans is presented in the Consolidated Financial Statements as a component of other assets. When accrued interest is deemed to be uncollectible (typically when a loan is placed on nonaccrual status), interest income is reversed. The Bancorp follows established policies for placing loans on nonaccrual status, so uncollectible accrued interest receivable is reversed in a timely manner. As a result, the Bancorp has elected not to measure a reserve for accrued interest receivable as part of its ALLL. However, the Bancorp does record a reserve for the portion of accrued interest receivable that it expects to be uncollectible. For additional information on the Bancorp’s accounting policies related to nonaccrual loans and leases, refer to Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Credit losses are charged and recoveries are credited to the ALLL. The ALLL is maintained at a level the Bancorp considers to be adequate and is based on ongoing quarterly assessments and evaluations of the collectability of loans and leases, including historical credit loss experience, current and forecasted market and economic conditions and consideration of various qualitative factors that, in management’s judgment, deserve consideration in estimating expected credit losses. Provisions for credit losses are recorded for the amounts necessary to adjust the ALLL to the Bancorp’s current estimate of expected credit losses on portfolio loans and leases. The Bancorp’s strategy for credit risk management includes a combination of conservative exposure limits significantly below legal lending limits and conservative underwriting, documentation and collections standards. The strategy also emphasizes diversification on a geographic, industry and customer level, regular credit examinations and quarterly management reviews of large credit exposures and loans experiencing deterioration of credit quality. Refer to the Credit Risk Management section of MD&A for additional information. The Bancorp’s methodology for determining the ALLL requires significant management judgment and includes an estimate of expected credit losses on a collective basis for groups of loans and leases with similar risk characteristics and specific allowances for loans and leases which are individually evaluated. Larger commercial loans and leases included within aggregate borrower relationship balances exceeding $1 million that exhibit probable or observed credit weaknesses, as well as loans that have been modified in a TDR, are individually evaluated for an ALLL. The Bancorp considers the current value of collateral, credit quality of any guarantees, the guarantor’s liquidity and willingness to cooperate, the loan or lease structure and other factors when determining the amount of the ALLL. Other factors may include the borrower’s susceptibility to risks presented by the forecasted macroeconomic environment, the industry and geographic region of the borrower, size and financial condition of the borrower, cash flow and leverage of the borrower and the Bancorp’s evaluation of the borrower’s management. Significant management judgment is required when evaluating which of these factors are most relevant in individual circumstances, and when estimating the amount of expected credit losses based on those factors. When loans and leases are individually evaluated, allowances are determined based on management’s estimate of the borrower’s ability to repay the loan or lease given the availability of collateral and other sources of cash flow, as well as an evaluation of legal options available to the Bancorp. Allowances for individually evaluated loans and leases that are collateral-dependent are measured based on the fair value of the underlying collateral, less expected costs to sell where applicable. Individually evaluated loans and leases that are not collateral-dependent are measured based on the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan’s effective interest rate. The Bancorp evaluates the collectability of both principal and interest when assessing the need for a loss accrual. Specific allowances on individually evaluated commercial loans and leases, including TDRs, are reviewed quarterly and adjusted as necessary based on changing borrower and/or collateral conditions and actual collection and charge-off experience. Consumer and residential mortgage loans that have been modified in a TDR are individually evaluated for an ALLL. Allowances for individually evaluated loans that are collateral-dependent are typically measured based on the fair value of the underlying collateral, less expected costs to sell where applicable. Individually evaluated loans that are not collateral-dependent are measured based on the present value 61 Fifth Third Bancorp MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan’s effective interest rate and a modeled expected credit loss amount. The Bancorp evaluates the collectability of both principal and interest when assessing the need for a loss accrual. Specific allowances on individually evaluated consumer and residential mortgage loans are reviewed quarterly and adjusted as necessary based on changing borrower and/or collateral conditions and actual collection and charge-off experience. Expected credit losses are estimated on a collective basis for loans and leases that are not individually evaluated. These include commercial loans and leases that do not meet the criteria for individual evaluation as well as homogeneous loans in the residential mortgage and consumer portfolio segments. For collectively evaluated loans and leases, the Bancorp uses models to forecast expected credit losses based on the probability of a loan or lease defaulting, the expected balance at the estimated date of default and the expected loss percentage given a default. The estimate of the expected balance at the time of default considers prepayments and, for loans with available credit, expected utilization rates. The Bancorp’s expected credit loss models were developed based on historical credit loss experience and observations of migration patterns for various credit risk characteristics (such as internal credit risk grades, external credit ratings or scores, delinquency status, loan-to-value trends, etc.) over time, with those observations evaluated in the context of concurrent macroeconomic conditions. The Bancorp developed its models from historical observations capturing a full economic cycle when possible. The Bancorp’s expected credit loss models consider historical credit loss experience, current market and economic conditions, and forecasted changes in market and economic conditions if such forecasts are considered reasonable and supportable. Generally, the Bancorp considers its forecasts to be reasonable and supportable for a period of up to three years from the estimation date. For periods beyond the reasonable and supportable forecast period, expected credit losses are estimated by reverting to historical loss information without adjustment for changes in economic conditions. This reversion is phased in over a two-year period. The Bancorp evaluates the length of its reasonable and supportable forecast period, its reversion period and reversion methodology at least annually, or more often if warranted by economic conditions or other circumstances. The Bancorp also considers qualitative factors in determining the ALLL. These considerations inherently require significant management judgment to determine the appropriate factors to be considered and the extent of their impact on the ALLL estimate. Qualitative factors are used to capture characteristics in the portfolio that impact expected credit losses but that are not fully captured within the Bancorp’s expected credit loss models. These include adjustments for changes in policies or procedures in underwriting, monitoring or collections, lending and risk management personnel and results of internal audit and quality control reviews. These may also include adjustments, when deemed necessary, for specific idiosyncratic risks such as geopolitical events, natural disasters and their effects on regional borrowers and changes in product structures. Qualitative factors may also be used to address the impacts of unforeseen events on key inputs and assumptions within the Bancorp’s expected credit loss models, such as the reasonable and supportable forecast period, changes to historical loss information or changes to the reversion period or methodology. When evaluating the adequacy of allowances, consideration is also given to regional geographic concentrations and the closely associated effect that changing economic conditions may have on the Bancorp’s customers. Overall, the collective evaluation process requires significant management judgment when determining the estimation methodology and inputs into the models, as well as in evaluating the reasonableness of the modeled results and the appropriateness of qualitative adjustments. The Bancorp’s forecasts of market and economic conditions and the internal risk grades assigned to loans and leases in the commercial portfolio segment are examples of inputs to the expected credit loss models that require significant management judgment. These inputs have the potential to drive significant variability in the resulting ALLL. Refer to the Allowance for Credit Losses subsection of the Risk Management section of MD&A for a discussion on the Bancorp’s ALLL sensitivity analysis. Reserve for Unfunded Commitments The reserve for unfunded commitments is maintained at a level believed by management to be sufficient to absorb estimated expected credit losses related to unfunded credit facilities and is included in other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The determination of the adequacy of the reserve is based upon expected credit losses over the remaining contractual life of the commitments, taking into consideration the current funded balance and estimated exposure over the reasonable and supportable forecast period.  This process takes into consideration the same risk elements that are analyzed in the determination of the adequacy of the Bancorp’s ALLL, as previously discussed. Net adjustments to the reserve for unfunded commitments are included in the provision for credit losses in the Consolidated Statements of Income. Valuation of Servicing Rights When the Bancorp sells loans through either securitizations or individual loan sales in accordance with its investment policies, it often obtains servicing rights. The Bancorp may also purchase servicing rights. The Bancorp has elected to measure all existing classes of its residential mortgage servicing rights at fair value at each reporting date with changes in the fair value of servicing rights reported in earnings in the period in which the changes occur. Servicing rights are valued using internal OAS models. Significant management judgment is necessary to identify key economic assumptions used in estimating the fair value of the servicing rights including the prepayment speeds of the underlying loans, the weighted-average life, the OAS and the weighted-average coupon rate, as applicable. The primary risk of material changes to the value of the servicing rights resides in the potential volatility in the economic assumptions used, particularly the prepayment speeds. In order to assist in the assessment of the fair value of servicing rights, the Bancorp obtains external valuations of the servicing rights portfolio from 62 Fifth Third Bancorp MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS third parties and participates in peer surveys that provide additional confirmation of the reasonableness of the key assumptions utilized in the internal OAS model. For additional information on servicing rights, refer to Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Fair Value Measurements The Bancorp measures certain financial assets and liabilities at fair value in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The Bancorp employs various valuation approaches to measure fair value including the market, income and cost approaches. The market approach uses prices or relevant information generated by market transactions involving identical or comparable assets or liabilities. The income approach involves discounting future amounts to a single present amount and is based on current market expectations about those future amounts. The cost approach is based on the amount that currently would be required to replace the service capacity of the asset. U.S. GAAP establishes a fair value hierarchy which prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value into three broad levels. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level 3). A financial instrument’s categorization within the fair value hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the instrument’s fair value measurement. For additional information on the fair value hierarchy and fair value measurements, refer to Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The Bancorp’s fair value measurements involve various valuation techniques and models, which involve inputs that are observable, when available. Valuation techniques and parameters used for measuring assets and liabilities are reviewed and validated by the Bancorp on a quarterly basis. Additionally, the Bancorp monitors the fair values of significant assets and liabilities using a variety of methods including the evaluation of pricing runs and exception reports based on certain analytical criteria, comparison to previous trades and overall review and assessments for reasonableness. The level of management judgment necessary to determine fair value varies based upon the methods used in the determination of fair value. Financial instruments that are measured at fair value using quoted prices in active markets (Level 1) require minimal judgment. The valuation of financial instruments when quoted market prices are not available (Levels 2 and 3) may require significant management judgment to assess whether quoted prices for similar instruments exist, the impact of changing market conditions including reducing liquidity in the capital markets and the use of estimates surrounding significant unobservable inputs. Table 6 provides a summary of the fair value of financial instruments carried at fair value on a recurring basis and the amounts of financial instruments valued using Level 3 inputs. Refer to Note 28 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on fair value measurements including a description of the valuation methodologies used for significant financial instruments. Goodwill Business combinations entered into by the Bancorp typically include the recognition of goodwill. U.S. GAAP requires goodwill to be tested for impairment at the reporting unit level on an annual basis, which the Bancorp performs as of September 30 each year, and more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that there may be impairment. Impairment exists when a reporting unit’s carrying amount of goodwill exceeds its implied fair value. In testing goodwill for impairment, U.S. GAAP permits the Bancorp to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. In this qualitative assessment, the Bancorp evaluates events and circumstances which may include, but are not limited to, the general economic environment, banking industry and market conditions, the overall financial performance of the Bancorp, the performance of the Bancorp’s common stock, the key financial performance metrics of the Bancorp’s reporting units and events affecting the reporting units to determine if it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If the quantitative impairment test is required or the decision to bypass the qualitative assessment is elected, the Bancorp performs the goodwill impairment test by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess, limited to the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. A recognized impairment loss cannot be reversed in future periods even if the fair value of the reporting unit subsequently recovers. The fair value of a reporting unit is the price that would be received to sell the unit as a whole in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. As none of the Bancorp’s reporting units are publicly traded, individual reporting unit fair value determinations cannot be directly correlated to the Bancorp’s stock price. The determination of the fair value of a reporting unit is a 63 Fifth Third Bancorp MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS subjective process that involves the use of estimates and judgments, particularly related to cash flows, the appropriate discount rates and an applicable control premium. The determination of the fair value of the Bancorp’s reporting units includes both an income-based approach and a market-based approach. The income-based approach utilizes the reporting unit’s forecasted cash flows (including a terminal value approach to estimate cash flows beyond the final year of the forecast) and the reporting unit’s estimated cost of equity as the discount rate. Significant management judgment is necessary in the preparation of each reporting unit’s forecasted cash flows surrounding expectations for earnings projections, growth and credit loss expectations and actual results may differ from forecasted results. Additionally, the Bancorp determines its market capitalization based on the average of the closing price of the Bancorp’s stock during the month including the measurement date, incorporating an additional control premium, and compares this market-based fair value measurement to the aggregate fair value of the Bancorp’s reporting units in order to corroborate the results of the income approach. Refer to Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the Bancorp’s goodwill. Legal Contingencies The Bancorp and its subsidiaries are parties to numerous claims and lawsuits as well as threatened or potential actions or claims concerning matters arising from the conduct of its business activities. The outcome of claims or litigation and the timing of ultimate resolution are inherently difficult to predict and significant judgment may be required in the determination of both the probability of loss and whether the amount of the loss is reasonably estimable. The Bancorp’s estimates are subjective and are based on the status of legal and regulatory proceedings, the merit of the Bancorp’s defenses and consultation with internal and external legal counsel. An accrual for a potential litigation loss is established when information related to the loss contingency indicates both that a loss is probable and that the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. Refer to Note 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding the Bancorp’s legal proceedings. 64 Fifth Third Bancorp MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS STATEMENTS OF INCOME ANALYSIS Net Interest Income Net interest income is the interest earned on loans and leases (including yield-related fees), securities and other short-term investments less the interest incurred on core deposits and wholesale funding. The net interest margin is calculated by dividing net interest income by average interest-earning assets. Net interest rate spread is the difference between the average yield earned on interest-earning assets and the average rate paid on interest-bearing liabilities. Net interest margin is typically greater than net interest rate spread due to the interest income earned on those assets that are funded by noninterest-bearing liabilities, or free funding, such as demand deposits or shareholders’ equity. Tables 7 and 8 present the components of net interest income, net interest margin and net interest rate spread for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, as well as the relative impact of changes in the average balance sheet and changes in interest rates on net interest income. Nonaccrual loans and leases and loans and leases held for sale have been included in the average loan and lease balances. Average outstanding securities balances are based on amortized cost with any unrealized gains or losses included in average other assets. Net interest income on an FTE basis (non-GAAP) was $5.6 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022, an increase of $843 million compared to the prior year. Net interest income benefited from increases in market interest rates, resulting in increases in yields of 54 bps on average loans and leases and 81 bps on average other short-term investments for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the prior year. Net interest income also benefited from increases in average taxable securities and average commercial and industrial loans of $16.1 billion and $6.7 billion, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the prior year. These positive impacts were partially offset by an increase in rates paid on average interest-bearing core deposits of 35 bps, an increase in the average balance of FHLB advances of $3.7 billion and an increase in rates paid on average long-term debt of 61 bps for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the prior year.  Interest income recognized from PPP loans decreased to $43 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to $189 million for the prior year. Net interest rate spread on an FTE basis (non-GAAP) was 2.72% during the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to 2.45% during the year ended December 31, 2021. Yields on average interest-earning assets increased 71 bps, partially offset by a 44 bps increase in rates paid on average interest-bearing liabilities for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021. Net interest margin on an FTE basis (non-GAAP) was 3.02% for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to 2.59% for the year ended December 31, 2021. Net interest margin for the year ended December 31, 2022 was positively impacted by the previously mentioned increase in the net interest rate spread. Net interest margin results are expected to continue increasing, albeit at a slower pace, driven by the continued repricing of the Bancorp’s fixed-rate assets portfolios into higher rates and the benefits of expected continued growth of the Bancorp’s other consumer loan portfolio, partially offset by the impact of rising rates on deposits and other interest-bearing liabilities. Interest income on an FTE basis (non-GAAP) from loans and leases increased $876 million from the year ended December 31, 2021 driven by the previously mentioned increases in market interest rates and average commercial and industrial loans, partially offset by lower income from PPP loans. For more information on the Bancorp’s loan and lease portfolio, refer to the Loans and Leases subsection of the Balance Sheet Analysis section of MD&A. Interest income on an FTE basis (non-GAAP) from investment securities and other short-term investments increased $504 million from the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily due to the previously mentioned increases in average taxable securities and yields on average other short-term investments. Interest expense on average core deposits increased $354 million from the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily due to an increase in the cost of average interest-bearing core deposits to 40 bps for the year ended December 31, 2022 from 5 bps for the year ended December 31, 2021, as a result of increasing short-term interest rates. Refer to the Deposits subsection of the Balance Sheet Analysis section of MD&A for additional information on the Bancorp’s deposits. Interest expense on average wholesale funding increased $183 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021  primarily due to the previously mentioned increase in the average balance of FHLB advances and increase in rates paid on average long-term debt, partially offset by a decrease in the average balance of long-term debt of $1.2 billion from the prior year. Refer to the Borrowings subsection of the Balance Sheet Analysis section of MD&A for additional information on the Bancorp’s borrowings. During the year ended December 31, 2022, average wholesale funding represented 15% of average interest-bearing liabilities compared to 13% for the year ended December 31, 2021. For more information on the Bancorp’s interest rate risk management, including estimated earnings sensitivity to changes in market interest rates, see the Interest Rate and Price Risk Management subsection of the Risk Management section of MD&A. 65 Fifth Third Bancorp MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (a) The FTE adjustments included in the above table were $16, $12 and $13 for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively. (b) Net interest income (FTE), net interest margin (FTE) and net interest rate spread (FTE) are non-GAAP measures. For further information, refer to the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section of MD&A. 66 Fifth Third Bancorp MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (a) Changes in interest not solely due to volume or yield/rate are allocated in proportion to the absolute dollar amount of change in volume and yield/rate. Provision for Credit Losses The Bancorp provides, as an expense, an amount for expected credit losses within the loan and lease portfolio and the portfolio of unfunded commitments and letters of credit that is based on factors previously discussed in the Critical Accounting Policies section of MD&A. The provision is recorded to bring the ALLL and reserve for unfunded commitments to a level deemed appropriate by the Bancorp to cover losses expected in the portfolios. Actual credit losses on loans and leases are charged against the ALLL. The amount of loans and leases actually removed from the Consolidated Balance Sheets are referred to as charge-offs. Net charge-offs include current period charge-offs less recoveries on previously charged-off loans and leases. The provision for credit losses was $563 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to a benefit from credit losses of $377 million in the prior year. Provision expense increased for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the prior year primarily driven by factors which caused increases in the ACL during the year ended December 31, 2022 including deterioration in forecasted macroeconomic conditions and higher period-end loan and lease balances. The increase in period-end loan and lease balances was primarily driven by commercial and industrial loan growth, originations of point-of-sale solar energy installation loans in the second half of 2022 and loans acquired in a business acquisition completed in the second quarter of 2022. The economic forecasts used to estimate the ACL at December 31, 2022 were generally less favorable than those used at December 31, 2021, reflecting an inflationary environment, rising 67 Fifth Third Bancorp MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS interest rates and higher oil prices. The benefit from credit losses for year ended December 31, 2021 was driven by decreases in the ACL in response to improved economic forecasts and improved commercial and consumer credit quality. The ALLL increased $302 million from December 31, 2021 to $2.2 billion at December 31, 2022. At December 31, 2022, the ALLL as a percent of portfolio loans and leases increased to 1.81%, compared to 1.69% at December 31, 2021. The reserve for unfunded commitments increased $34 million from December 31, 2021 to $216 million at December 31, 2022. At December 31, 2022, the ACL as a percent of portfolio loans and leases increased to 1.98%, compared to 1.85% at December 31, 2021. Refer to the Credit Risk Management subsection of the Risk Management section of MD&A as well as Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more detailed information on the provision for credit losses, including an analysis of loan and lease portfolio composition, nonperforming assets, net charge-offs and other factors considered by the Bancorp in assessing the credit quality of the loan and lease portfolio and determining the level of the ACL. Noninterest Income Noninterest income decreased $352 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021. The following table presents the components of noninterest income: Service charges on deposits Service charges on deposits decreased $11 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021 due to a decrease in service charges on both commercial and consumer deposits. Service charges on commercial deposits were $434 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, a decrease of $3 million from the prior year primarily due to higher treasury management earnings credits driven by market interest rates, partially offset by an increase in commercial treasury management fees. Service charges on consumer deposits were $155 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, a decrease of $8 million from the prior year primarily due to a decrease in consumer deposit fees driven by the elimination of non-sufficient funds fees during 2022. Wealth and asset management revenue Wealth and asset management revenue decreased $16 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily due to decreases in private client service fees and securities income. The Bancorp’s trust and registered investment advisory businesses had approximately $510 billion and $554 billion in total assets under care as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, and managed $55 billion and $65 billion in assets for individuals, corporations and not-for-profit organizations as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Commercial banking revenue Commercial banking revenue decreased $72 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily due to decreases in corporate bond fees, loan syndication fees, merger and acquisition fees and equity capital markets fees, partially offset by an increase in contract revenue from commercial customer derivatives as well as an increase in foreign exchange fees. Card and processing revenue Card and processing revenue increased $7 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily due to an increase in credit card interchange, partially offset by increased reward costs as well as a decrease in other electronic funds transfer income. The increases in credit card interchange and reward costs were primarily driven by an increase in consumer and business card spend volumes. 68 Fifth Third Bancorp MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Leasing business revenue Leasing business revenue decreased $63 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily driven by decreases in lease syndication fees and leasing business solutions revenue, partially offset by an increase in lease remarketing fees. The decrease in leasing business solutions revenue was related to the disposition of LaSalle Solutions during the second quarter of 2022. Mortgage banking net revenue Mortgage banking net revenue decreased $55 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021. The following table presents the components of mortgage banking net revenue: Origination fees and gains on loan sales decreased $194 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily driven by decreases in gain on sale margins and lower volumes of residential mortgage loan originations and sales as well as the impact of gains recognized during the year ended December 31, 2021 from sales of government-guaranteed loans that were previously in forbearance programs. Residential mortgage loan originations decreased to $14.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022 from $19.0 billion for the year ended December 31, 2021 due primarily to the impact of higher market interest rates on refinance activity. The following table presents the components of net valuation adjustments on the MSR portfolio and the impact of the non-qualifying hedging strategy. (a) Primarily reflects changes in prepayment speed and OAS assumptions which are updated based on market interest rates. (b) Primarily reflects changes due to realized cash flows and the passage of time. For the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, the Bancorp recognized income of $177 million and losses of $139 million, respectively, in mortgage banking net revenue for valuation adjustments on the MSR portfolio. The valuation adjustments on the MSR portfolio included increases of $355 million and $142 million for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, due to changes in market rates and other inputs in the valuation model, including future prepayment speeds and OAS assumptions. Mortgage rates increased during the year ended December 31, 2022 which caused a reduction in modeled prepayment speeds. There was also an increase in the modeled OAS assumptions for the year ended December 31, 2022. The fair value of the MSR portfolio also decreased $178 million and $281 million as a result of contractual principal payments and actual prepayment activity for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Further detail on the valuation of MSRs can be found in Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The Bancorp maintains a non-qualifying hedging strategy to manage a portion of the risk associated with changes in the valuation of the MSR portfolio. Refer to Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the free-standing derivatives used to economically hedge the MSR portfolio. In addition to the derivative positions used to economically hedge the MSR portfolio, the Bancorp acquires various securities as a component of its non-qualifying hedging strategy. The Bancorp recognized net losses of $2 million during both the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 recorded in securities (losses) gains, net - non-qualifying hedges on mortgage servicing rights in the Bancorp’s Consolidated Statements of Income. 69 Fifth Third Bancorp MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The Bancorp’s total residential mortgage loans serviced at December 31, 2022 and 2021 were $120.2 billion and $106.8 billion, respectively, with $103.2 billion and $89.2 billion, respectively, of residential mortgage loans serviced for others. Other noninterest income The following table presents the components of other noninterest income: Other noninterest income decreased $67 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended  December 31, 2021 primarily due to decreases in gains on contract sales and private equity investment income. Gains on contract sales decreased $59 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to December 31, 2021 as the prior year included the recognition of a $60 million gain on the sale of the Bancorp’s HSA deposit portfolio which was completed in the third quarter of 2021. Private equity investment income decreased $11 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the prior year primarily driven by losses recognized on certain private equity investments. Noninterest Expense Noninterest expense decreased $29 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021. The following table presents the components of noninterest expense: (a) This is a non-GAAP measure. For further information, refer to the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section of MD&A. Compensation and benefits expense decreased $72 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily driven by decreases in non-qualified deferred compensation expense and performance-based compensation, partially offset by the impact of a special broad-based compensation bonus granted in the first quarter of 2022, the additional personnel costs of an acquired business and the impact of raising the Bancorp’s minimum wage in the third quarter of 2022. Full-time equivalent employees totaled 19,319 at December 31, 2022 compared to 19,112 at December 31, 2021. Technology and communications expense increased $28 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily driven by increased investment in strategic initiatives and technology. Marketing expense increased $11 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily due to an increase in account acquisition programs. 70 Fifth Third Bancorp MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Card and processing expense decreased $9 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily due to contract renegotiations with a third-party vendor, partially offset by increased association network charges as a result of increased credit card spend. The following table presents the components of other noninterest expense: Other noninterest expense increased $17 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily due to increases in travel expense, losses and adjustments and FDIC insurance and other taxes, partially offset by a decrease in loan and lease expense. Travel expense increased $26 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021 due to an increase in travel as a result of the gradual cessation of travel restrictions related to the COVID-19 pandemic. Losses and adjustments increased $22 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily due to a reduction in the net benefit from changes in credit valuation adjustments on customer accommodation derivatives and an increase in operational losses. FDIC insurance and other taxes increased $18 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily as a result of an increase in the FDIC insurance assessment rate. Loan and lease expense decreased $50 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily driven by a decrease in loan servicing expenses related to the Bancorp’s sales of certain government-guaranteed residential mortgage loans that were previously in forbearance programs and serviced by a third party. Applicable Income Taxes Applicable income tax expense for all periods presented includes the benefit from tax-exempt income, tax-advantaged investments, certain gains on sales of leveraged leases that are exempt from federal taxation and tax credits (and other related tax benefits), partially offset by the effect of proportional amortization of qualifying LIHTC investments and certain nondeductible expenses. The tax credits are primarily associated with the Low-Income Housing Tax Credit program established under Section 42 of the IRC, the New Markets Tax Credit program established under Section 45D of the IRC, the Rehabilitation Investment Tax Credit program established under Section 47 of the IRC and the Qualified Zone Academy Bond program established under Section 1397E of the IRC. The effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 were primarily impacted by $219 million and $193 million, respectively, of low-income housing tax credits and other tax benefits and $26 million and $23 million, respectively, of tax benefits from tax exempt income and were partially offset by $189 million and $163 million, respectively, of proportional amortization related to qualifying LIHTC investments. The Bancorp’s income before income taxes, applicable income tax expense and effective tax rate are as follows: 71 Fifth Third Bancorp MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS BUSINESS SEGMENT REVIEW During the third quarter of 2022, the Bancorp reorganized its management reporting structure and now reports on three business segments: Commercial Banking, Consumer and Small Business Banking and Wealth and Asset Management. Additional information on each business segment is included in Note 31 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Prior period results have been adjusted to conform to the new segment presentation. Results of the Bancorp’s business segments are presented based on its management structure and management accounting practices. The structure and accounting practices are specific to the Bancorp; therefore, the financial results of the Bancorp’s business segments are not necessarily comparable with similar information for other financial institutions. The Bancorp refines its methodologies from time to time as management’s accounting practices and businesses change. The Bancorp manages interest rate risk centrally at the corporate level. By employing an FTP methodology, the business segments are insulated from most benchmark interest rate volatility, enabling them to focus on serving customers through the origination of loans and acceptance of deposits. The FTP methodology assigns charge and credit rates to classes of assets and liabilities, respectively, based on the estimated amount and timing of cash flows for each transaction. Assigning the FTP rate based on matching the duration of cash flows allocates interest income and interest expense to each business segment so its resulting net interest income is insulated from future changes in benchmark interest rates. The Bancorp’s FTP methodology also allocates the contribution to net interest income of the asset-generating and deposit-providing businesses on a duration-adjusted basis to better attribute the driver of the performance. As the asset and liability durations are not perfectly matched, the residual impact of the FTP methodology is captured in General Corporate and Other. The charge and credit rates are determined using the FTP rate curve, which is based on an estimate of Fifth Third’s marginal borrowing cost in the wholesale funding markets. The FTP curve is constructed using the U.S. swap curve, brokered CD pricing and unsecured debt pricing. The Bancorp’s FTP methodology was not adjusted during the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020. The Bancorp adjusts the FTP charge and credit rates as dictated by changes in interest rates for various interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities and by the review of behavioral assumptions, such as prepayment rates on interest-earning assets and the estimated durations for indeterminate-lived deposits. Key assumptions, including the credit rates provided for deposit accounts, are reviewed annually. Credit rates for deposit products and charge rates for loan products may be reset more frequently in response to changes in market conditions. In general, the charge rates on assets have increased since December 31, 2021 as they were affected by the prevailing level of interest rates and by the duration and repricing characteristics of the portfolio. The credit rates for deposit products also increased since December 31, 2021, due to higher interest rates and modified assumptions. Thus, net interest income for asset-generating business segments was negatively impacted by the rates charged on assets while deposit-providing business segments were positively impacted during the year ended December 31, 2022. The Bancorp’s methodology for allocating provision for credit losses to the business segments includes charges or benefits associated with changes in criticized commercial loan levels in addition to actual net charge-offs experienced by the loans and leases owned by each business segment. Provision for credit losses attributable to loan and lease growth and changes in ALLL factors is captured in General Corporate and Other. The financial results of the business segments include allocations for shared services and headquarters expenses. Additionally, the business segments form synergies by taking advantage of relationship depth opportunities and funding operations by accessing the capital markets as a collective unit. The following table summarizes net income (loss) by business segment: 72 Fifth Third Bancorp MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Commercial Banking Commercial Banking offers credit intermediation, cash management and financial services to large and middle-market businesses and government and professional customers. In addition to the traditional lending and depository offerings, Commercial Banking products and services include global cash management, foreign exchange and international trade finance, derivatives and capital markets services, asset-based lending, real estate finance, public finance, commercial leasing and syndicated finance. The following table contains selected financial data for the Commercial Banking segment: (a) Includes FTE adjustments of $10, $8 and $13 for the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. (b) Applicable income tax expense for all periods includes the tax benefit from tax-exempt income, tax-advantaged investments and tax credits partially offset by the effect of certain nondeductible expenses. Refer to the Applicable Income Taxes subsection of the Statements of Income Analysis section of MD&A for additional information. Comparison of the year ended 2022 with 2021 Net income was $1.6 billion for both the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 as an increase in net interest income on an FTE basis was partially offset by an increase in provision for credit losses as well as a decrease in noninterest income and an increase in noninterest expense. Net interest income on an FTE basis increased $948 million from the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily driven by increases in yields on and average balances of commercial loans and leases as well as increases in FTP credit rates on deposits. These positive impacts were partially offset by increases in FTP charges on commercial loans and leases as well as increases in rates paid on interest checking deposits and savings and money market deposits. The provision for credit losses was $33 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to a benefit from credit losses of $597 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. The benefit from credit losses for the year ended December 31, 2021 was primarily driven by a decrease in commercial criticized asset levels during that period. The increase in provision expense for the year ended December 31, 2022 was primarily driven by an increase in net charge-offs on commercial and industrial loans. Net charge-offs as a percent of average portfolio loans and leases increased to 12 bp s for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to 9 bps for the year ended December 31, 2021. Noninterest income decreased $157 million from the year ended December 31, 2021 driven by decreases in commercial banking revenue, leasing business revenue, service charges on deposits and other noninterest income. Commercial banking revenue decreased $70 million from the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily due to decreases in corporate bond fees, loan syndication fees, merger and acquisition fees and equity capital markets fees, partially offset by an increase in contract revenue from commercial customer derivatives as well as an increase in foreign exchange fees. Leasing business revenue decreased $63 million from the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily driven by decreases in lease syndication fees and leasing business solutions revenue, partially offset by an increase in lease remarketing fees. The decrease in leasing business solutions revenue was related to the disposition of LaSalle Solutions during the second quarter of 2022. Service charges on deposits decreased $13 million from the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily due to a decrease in commercial deposit fees 73 Fifth Third Bancorp MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS driven by higher earnings credit rates. Other noninterest income decreased $11 million from the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily driven by the recognition of securities losses, partially offset by an increase in private equity investment income. Noninterest expense increased $50 million from the year ended December 31, 2021 driven by an increase in other noninterest expense, partially offset by decreases in leasing business expense and compensation and benefits. Other noninterest expense increased $61 million from the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily as a result of increases in allocated expenses related to information technology support services and cash management services, a reduction in the net benefit from changes in credit valuation adjustments on customer accommodation derivatives as well as increases in FDIC insurance and other taxes and travel expenses. Leasing business expense decreased $6 million from the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily due to a decrease in operating lease equipment depreciation. Compensation and benefits decreased $5 million from the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily as a result of a decrease in incentive compensation, partially offset by an increase in base compensation. Average commercial loans and leases increased $8.3 billion from the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily due to an increase in average commercial and industrial loans partially offset by decreases in average commercial construction loans and average commercial leases. Average commercial and industrial loans increased from the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily driven by increased revolving line of credit utilization and increased production. Average commercial construction loans decreased from the year ended December 31, 2021 as payoffs exceeded draws on existing commitments and loan originations . Average commercial leases decreased from the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily as a result of a planned reduction in indirect non-relationship-based lease originations. Average deposits decreased $6.0 billion from the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily due to decreases in average demand deposits, average savings and money market deposits and average interest checking deposits. Average demand deposits decreased $3.1 billion from the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily as a result of lower average balances per commercial customer account and balance migration into interest checking deposits. Average savings and money market deposits decreased $1.8 billion from the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily as a result of lower average balances per commercial customer account . Average interest checking deposits decreased $1.1 billion from the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily as a result of lower average balances per commercial customer account, partially offset by balance migration from demand deposits. Lower average commercial customer account balances in demand deposits, money market deposits and interest checking deposits included the impact of deliberate runoff during the second quarter of 2022 of certain higher cost commercial deposits. Comparison of the year ended 2021 with 2020 Net income was $1.6 billion for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to net income of $398 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. The increase in net income was primarily driven by a decrease in provision for credit losses as well as an increase in noninterest income and a decrease in noninterest expense, partially offset by a decrease in net interest income on an FTE basis. Net interest income on an FTE basis decreased $418 million from the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily driven by decreases in yields on and average balances of commercial loans and leases as well as decreases in FTP credit rates on interest checking deposits, demand deposits and savings and money market deposits. These negative impacts were partially offset by decreases in FTP charge rates on loans and leases as well as decreases in rates paid on and average balances of interest checking deposits and savings and money market deposits. The benefit from credit losses was $597 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to a provision for credit losses of $1.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2020. The decrease for the year ended December 31, 2021 was primarily driven by a decrease in commercial criticized asset levels as well as decreases in net charge-offs on commercial loans and leases. Net charge-offs as a percent of average portfolio loans and leases decreased to 9 bps for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to 36 bps for the year ended December 31, 2020. Noninterest income increased $164 million from the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily driven by increases in commercial banking revenue, service charges on deposits and leasing business revenue. Commercial banking revenue increased $106 million from the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily due to increases in loan syndication fees, business lending fees and institutional sales partially offset by a decrease in bridge fees. Service charges on deposits increased $27 million from the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily due to an increase in commercial deposit fees primarily due to growth in volume-based service revenues, with continued benefit from lower earnings credit rates. Leasing business revenue increased $24 million from the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily due to an increase in lease syndication fees partially offset by a decrease in lease remarketing fees. Noninterest expense decreased $36 million from the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily driven by a decrease in other noninterest expense partially offset by an increase in compensation and benefits. Other noninterest expense decreased $71 million from the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily as a result of a decline in credit valuation adjustments on derivatives associated with customer accommodation contracts and decreases in allocated expenses related to cash management services. Compensation and benefits increased $38 million from the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily as a result of increases in incentive compensation and employee benefits expense driven by strong performance in fees related to business growth and expansion initiatives during the year ended December 31, 2021 as well as an increase in base compensation. 74 Fifth Third Bancorp MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Average commercial loans and leases decreased $5.6 billion from the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily due to decreases in average commercial and industrial loans and average commercial mortgage loans partially offset by an increase in average commercial construction loans. Average commercial and industrial loans decreased from the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily driven by elevated revolving line of credit utilization during the year ended December 31, 2020 as well as paydowns in excess of loan originations. Average commercial mortgage loans decreased from the year ended December 31, 2020 as payoffs exceeded loan originations. Average commercial construction loans increased from the year ended December 31, 2020 as draws on existing commitments exceeded payoffs. Average deposits increased $6.7 billion from the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily due to an increase in average demand deposits, partially offset by decreases in average interest checking deposits and average savings and money market deposits. Average demand deposits increased $10.5 billion from the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily as a result of commercial customers maintaining increased levels of liquidity driven by the amount of fiscal and monetary stimulus, as well as growth in the number of accounts and migration of balances from interest checking deposits. Average interest checking deposits decreased $3.6 billion from the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily as a result of the aforementioned balance migration into demand deposits and lower average balances per commercial customer account. Average savings and money market deposits decreased $178 million from the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily as a result of a decline in average balances per commercial customer account. Consumer and Small Business Banking Consumer and Small Business Banking provides a full range of deposit and loan products to individuals and small businesses through a network of full-service banking centers and relationships with indirect and correspondent loan originators in addition to providing products designed to meet the specific needs of small businesses, including cash management services. Consumer and Small Business Banking includes the Bancorp’s residential mortgage, home equity loans and lines of credit, credit cards, automobile and other indirect lending and other consumer lending activities. Residential mortgage activities include the origination, retention and servicing of residential mortgage loans, sales and securitizations of those loans and all associated hedging activities. Indirect lending activities include extending loans to consumers through automobile dealers, motorcycle dealers, powersport dealers, recreational vehicle dealers and marine dealers. Other consumer lending activities include home improvement and solar energy installation loans originated through a network of contractors and installers. The following table contains selected financial data for the Consumer and Small Business Banking segment: 75 Fifth Third Bancorp MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Comparison of the year ended 2022 with 2021 Net income was $1.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to net income of $220 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. The increase was primarily driven by an increase in net interest income, partially offset by a decrease in noninterest income and an increase in provision for credit losses. Net interest income increased $1.4 billion from the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily due to increases in FTP credit rates on deposits. This positive impact was partially offset by an increase in FTP charge rates on loans and leases as well as increases in rates paid on and average balances of savings and money market deposits. Provision for credit losses increased $19 million from the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily due to increases in net charge-offs on indirect secured consumer loans and other consumer loans, partially offset by a decrease in net charge-offs on credit card. Net charge-offs as a percent of average portfolio loans and leases increased to 33 bps for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to 32 bps for the year ended December 31, 2021. Noninterest income decreased $54 million from the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily driven by a decrease in mortgage banking net revenue. Refer to the Noninterest Income subsection of the Statements of Income Analysis section of MD&A for additional information on the fluctuations in mortgage banking net revenue. Noninterest expense decreased $6 million from the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily due to decreases in card and processing expense and compensation and benefits, partially offset by an increase in other noninterest expense. Card and processing expense decreased $13 million from the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily due to contract renegotiations with a third-party vendor, partially offset by increased association network charges as a result of increased credit card spend. Compensation and benefits decreased $5 million from the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily driven by a decrease in incentive compensation related to lower residential mortgage origination volumes, partially offset by the incremental impact of acquired businesses. Other noninterest expense increased $13 million from the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily due to increases in marketing expense and FDIC insurance and other taxes as well as allocated expenses related to information technology support services. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in loan servicing expenses related to the Bancorp’s sales of certain government-guaranteed residential mortgage loans that were previously in forbearance programs and serviced by a third party. Average consumer loans decreased $23 million from the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily driven by decreases in average residential mortgage loans and average home equity, partially offset by increases in average indirect secured consumer loans and average other consumer loans. Average residential mortgage loans decreased from the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily due to decreases in residential mortgage loans held for sale as the Bancorp sold government-guaranteed loans that were previously in forbearance programs. Average home equity decreased from the year ended December 31, 2021 as payoffs exceeded loan originations and new advances. Average indirect secured consumer loans increased from the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily driven by higher demand and other favorable market conditions as well as lower indirect automobile prepayments and increased loan production in non-automobile indirect loans. Average other consumer loans increased from the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily driven by originations of point-of-sale solar energy installation loans in the second half of 2022, in addition to loans acquired in a business acquisition completed in the second quarter of 2022. Average commercial loans increased $799 million from the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily driven by increases in average commercial and industrial loans and average commercial mortgage loans as loan originations exceeded payoffs. Average deposits increased $2.9 billion from the year ended December 31, 2021 driven by increases in average savings and money market deposits, average demand deposits and average interest checking deposits, partially offset by a decrease in average certificates of deposit. Average savings and money market deposits increased $2.4 billion, average demand deposits increased $668 million and average interest checking deposits increased $558 million from the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily as a result of higher balances per customer account as well as growth in the number of accounts . Average certificates of deposit decreased $749 million from the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily due to lower offering rates during the first three quarters of 2022, partially offset by higher offering rates during the fourth quarter of 2022. Comparison of the year ended 2021 with 2020 Net income was $220 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to net income of $357 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. The decrease was primarily driven by a decrease in net interest income and an increase in noninterest expense, partially offset by a decrease in provision for credit losses and an increase in noninterest income. Net interest income decreased $257 million from the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily due to decreases in FTP credit rates on deposits, partially offset by decreases in FTP charge rates on loans and decreases in rates paid on deposits. Interest income on loans was negatively impacted by decreases in yields, but these impacts were substantially offset by increases in average balances of consumer and commercial loans. Provision for credit losses decreased $109 million from the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily due to decreases in net charge-offs on loans and leases, driven by a decrease in net charge-offs on credit card, for the year ended December 31, 2021 . Net charge-offs as a percent of 76 Fifth Third Bancorp MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS average portfolio loans and leases decreased to 32 bps for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to 60 bps for the year ended December 31, 2020. Noninterest income increased $69 million from the year ended December 31, 2020 driven by increases in card and processing revenue, wealth and asset management revenue, other noninterest income and service charges on deposits. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in mortgage banking net revenue. Card and processing revenue increased $43 million from the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily as a result of an increase in consumer customer spend volume, partially offset by increased reward costs. Wealth and asset management revenue increased $34 million from the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily due to increases in broker income and private client service fees. Other noninterest income increased $26 million from the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily driven by decreases in net losses on disposition and impairment of bank premises and equipment as well as increases in cardholder fees and banking center income.  Service charges on deposits increased $14 million from the year ended December 31, 2020 driven by increases in both consumer deposit fees and commercial deposit fees. Mortgage banking net revenue decreased $48 million from the year ended December 31, 2020, primarily driven by decreases in origination fees and gains on loans sales and gross mortgage servicing fees. Noninterest expense increased $96 million from the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily due to increases in other noninterest expense, compensation and benefits and net occupancy and equipment expense, partially offset by a decrease in card and processing expense. Other noninterest expense increased $106 million from the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily due to an increase in loan and lease expense driven by an increase in loan servicing expenses associated with the Bancorp’s purchases of certain government-guaranteed residential mortgage loans in forbearance programs. The increase was also driven by increases in losses and adjustments and marketing expense. Compensation and benefits increased $12 million from the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily due to an increase in incentive compensation resulting from the increased mortgage origination activity for the year ended December 31, 2021. Net occupancy and equipment expense increased $9 million from the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily due to increases in allocated occupancy costs. Card and processing expense decreased $31 million from the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily driven by contract renegotiations with a third-party vendor. Average consumer loans increased $4.6 billion from the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily driven by increases in average residential mortgage loans and average indirect secured consumer loans, partially offset by decreases in average home equity and average credit card. The increase in average residential mortgage loans was primarily driven by the Bancorp’s purchases of certain government-guaranteed loans in forbearance programs. The increase in average indirect secured consumer loans was primarily driven by higher demand and other favorable market conditions, which contributed to increased loan production. Average home equity decreased as payoffs exceeded loan originations and new advances. The decrease in average credit card was primarily driven by the cumulative impacts from the COVID-19 pandemic, including accelerated paydown activity due to the amount of fiscal stimulus programs and lower consumer demand for credit. Average commercial loans increased $283 million from the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily driven by increases in average commercial and industrial loans and average commercial mortgage loans. Average deposits increased $9.5 billion from the year ended December 31, 2020 driven by increases in average savings and money market deposits, average demand deposits and average interest checking deposits, partially offset by a decrease in average certificates of deposit. Average savings and money market deposits increased $4.9 billion, average demand deposits increased $4.3 billion and average interest checking deposits increased $2.3 billion from the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily as a result of higher balances per customer account due to the amount of fiscal stimulus, uncertainty regarding the COVID-19 pandemic and decreased consumer outflows. Average certificates of deposits decreased $2.1 billion from the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily due to lower offering rates on certificates. 77 Fifth Third Bancorp MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Wealth and Asset Management Wealth and Asset Management provides a full range of wealth management services for individuals, companies and not-for-profit organizations. Wealth and Asset Management is made up of three main businesses: FTS, an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of the Bancorp; Fifth Third Private Bank; and Fifth Third Institutional Services. FTS offers full service retail brokerage services to individual clients and broker-dealer services to the institutional marketplace. Fifth Third Private Bank offers wealth management strategies to high net worth and ultra-high net worth clients through wealth planning, investment management, banking, insurance, trust and estate services. Fifth Third Institutional Services provides advisory services for institutional clients including middle market businesses, non-profits, states and municipalities. The following table contains selected financial data for the Wealth and Asset Management segment: Comparison of the year ended 2022 with 2021 Net income was $198 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to net income of $94 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. The increase in net income was primarily driven by an increase in net interest income partially offset by a decrease in noninterest income and an increase in noninterest expense. Net interest income increased $174 million from the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily driven by an increase in FTP credits on deposits as well as increases in yields on and average balances of loans and leases. These positive impacts were partially offset by increases in rates paid on average deposits as well as an increase in FTP charges on loans and leases for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the prior year. Noninterest income decreased $25 million from the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily due to a decrease in wealth and asset management revenue, which decreased $18 million from the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily as a result of decreases in private client service fees and securities income. Noninterest expense increased $16 million from the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily due to an increase in compensation and benefits . Compensation and benefits increased $13 million from the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily as a result of increases in incentive compensation and base compensation. Average loans and leases increased $561 million from the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily driven by an increase in average commercial and industrial loans as a result of higher loan production. Average deposits increased $1.2 billion from the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily driven by increases in average savings and money market deposits, average interest checking deposits and average demand deposits as a result of higher average balances per customer account. Comparison of the year ended 2021 with 2020 Net income was $94 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to net income of $102 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. The decrease in net income was primarily driven by a decrease in net interest income and an increase in noninterest expense partially offset by an increase in noninterest income and a decrease in provision for credit losses. 78 Fifth Third Bancorp MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Net interest income decreased $51 million from the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily driven by decreases in FTP credit rates on deposits as well as decreases in yields on average loans and leases. These negative impacts were partially offset by decreases in rates paid on average interest-bearing deposits as well as decreases in FTP charge rates on loans and leases. The benefit from credit losses was $1 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to a provision for credit losses of $3 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. The decrease was primarily driven by a decrease in net charge-offs on residential mortgage loans. Noninterest income increased $44 million from the year ended December 31, 2020 due to an increase in wealth and asset management revenue partially offset by a decrease in other noninterest income. Wealth and asset management revenue increased $60 million from the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily as a result of increases in private client service fees and broker income partially offset by a decrease in institutional fees. Other noninterest income decreased $16 million from the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily due to a decrease in insurance income driven by the sale of the Bancorp’s property and casualty insurance business in the fourth quarter of 2020. Noninterest expense increased $7 million from the year ended December 31, 2020 due to an increase in other noninterest expense partially offset by a decrease in compensation and benefits. Other noninterest expense increased $20 million from the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily due to increases in expenses associated with intercompany revenue sharing agreements. Compensation and benefits decreased $13 million from the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily as a result of a decrease in base compensation which included a decline due to the sale of the Bancorp’s property and casualty insurance business in the fourth quarter of 2020. Average loans and leases increased $193 million from the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily driven by increases in average other consumer loans and average residential mortgage loans as a result of higher loan production, partially offset by a decrease in average home equity. Average deposits increased $395 million from the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily driven by increases in average savings and money market deposits, average interest checking deposits and average demand deposits as a result of higher average balances per customer account due to the amount of fiscal stimulus, uncertainty regarding the COVID-19 pandemic and decreased consumer spending. General Corporate and Other General Corporate and Other includes the unallocated portion of the investment securities portfolio, securities gains and losses, certain non-core deposit funding, unassigned equity, unallocated provision for credit losses expense or a benefit from the reduction of the ACL, the payment of preferred stock dividends and certain support activities and other items not attributed to the business segments. Comparison of the year ended 2022 with 2021 Net interest income on an FTE basis decreased $1.7 billion from the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily driven by an increase in FTP credits on deposits allocated to the business segments, a decrease in interest income on PPP loans and an increase in interest expense on other short-term borrowings. These negative impacts were partially offset by an increase in the benefit related to FTP charge rates on loans and leases allocated to the business segments and an increase in interest income on investment securities. The provision for credit losses increased $290 million from the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily driven by factors which caused increases in the ACL during the year ended December 31, 2022 including deterioration in forecasted macroeconomic conditions and higher period-end loan and lease balances, partially offset by the impact of allocations to the business segments. Noninterest income decreased $119 million from the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily driven by a $60 million gain on the sale of the Bancorp’s HSA deposit portfolio in the third quarter of 2021, a decrease in private equity investment income and an increase in net securities losses. Noninterest expense decreased $92 million from the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily driven by a decrease in compensation and benefits due to a decrease in non-qualified deferred compensation expense. The decrease also included the impact of an increase in corporate overhead allocations from General Corporate and Other to the other business segments partially offset by increases in technology and communications expense and travel expense. Comparison of the year ended 2021 with 2020 Net interest income on an FTE basis increased $709 million from the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily driven by decreases in FTP credit rates on deposits allocated to the business segments, an increase in interest income on PPP loans and decreases in interest expense on long-term debt and deposits. These positive impacts were partially offset by a decrease in the benefit related to FTP charge rates on loans and leases allocated to the business segments and a decrease in interest income on investment securities. The provision for credit losses was $101 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to a benefit from credit losses of $221 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. The increase for the year ended December 31, 2021 was primarily driven by an increase in the benefits provided to the business segments associated with the decline in the level of commercial criticized assets owned by the business segments. 79 Fifth Third Bancorp MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Noninterest income increased $38 million from the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily driven by the recognition of a gain on the sale of the Bancorp’s HSA deposit portfolio in the third quarter of 2021, an increase in private equity investment income, a decrease in the loss on the swap associated with the sale of Visa, Inc. Class B shares and a decrease in net losses on disposition and impairment of bank premises and equipment. These impacts were partially offset by the recognition of securities losses of $15 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to securities gains of $62 million for the year ended December 31, 2020. Noninterest expense decreased $10 million from the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily driven by a decrease in net occupancy expense, partially offset by a decrease in corporate overhead allocations from General Corporate and Other to the other business segments and increases in technology and communications expense and equipment expense. 80 Fifth Third Bancorp MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS BALANCE SHEET ANALYSIS Loans and Leases The Bancorp classifies its commercial loans and leases based upon primary purpose and consumer loans based upon product or collateral. Table 20 summarizes end of period loans and leases, including loans and leases held for sale, and Table 21 summarizes average total loans and leases, including average loans and leases held for sale. (a) Includes $94 million and $1.3 billion as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, related to the SBA’s Paycheck Protection Program. Total loans and leases, including loans and leases held for sale, increased $6.0 billion, or 5%, from December 31, 2021 primarily as a result of a $6.2 billion, or 9%, increase in commercial loans and leases. Commercial loans and leases increased $6.2 billion from December 31, 2021 due to increases in commercial and industrial loans, commercial mortgage loans and commercial construction loans, partially offset by a decrease in commercial leases. Commercial and industrial loans increased $5.6 billion, or 11%, from December 31, 2021 primarily as a result of increased revolving line of credit utilization and stronger production, partially offset by PPP loan forgiveness and paydowns. Commercial mortgage loans increased $691 million, or 7%, from December 31, 2021 as loan originations exceeded payoffs. Commercial construction loans increased $192 million, or 4%, from December 31, 2021 as draws on existing commitments and loan originations exceeded payoffs. Commercial leases decreased $349 million, or 11%, from December 31, 2021 primarily as a result of a planned reduction in indirect non-relationship-based lease originations. Consumer loans decreased $151 million from December 31, 2021 primarily due to decreases in residential mortgage loans and indirect secured consumer loans, partially offset by increases in other consumer loans and credit card. Residential mortgage loans decreased $2.2 billion, or 11%, from December 31, 2021 primarily due to decreases in residential mortgage loans held for sale as the Bancorp sold government-guaranteed loans that were previously in forbearance programs. Indirect secured consumer loans decreased $231 million, or 1%, from December 31, 2021 primarily driven by indirect automobile payoffs exceeding loan production, partially offset by increased loan production in non-automobile indirect loans. Other consumer loans increased $2.2 billion, or 82%, from December 31, 2021 primarily driven by originations of point-of-sale solar energy installation loans in the second half of 2022, in addition to loans acquired in a business acquisition completed in the second quarter of 2022. Credit card increased $108 million, or 6%, from December 31, 2021 primarily due to increases in balance-active customers and average balances per active account. 81 Fifth Third Bancorp MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Average loans and leases, including average loans and leases held for sale, increased $6.4 billion, or 6%, from December 31, 2021 primarily as result of a $6.4 billion, or 9%, increase in average commercial loans and leases. Average commercial loans and leases increased $6.4 billion from December 31, 2021 due to increases in average commercial and industrial loans and average commercial mortgage loans, partially offset by decreases in average commercial construction loans and average commercial leases. Average commercial and industrial loans increased $6.7 billion, or 14%, from December 31, 2021 primarily driven by increased revolving line of credit utilization and increased production, partially offset by PPP loan forgiveness and paydowns. Average commercial mortgage loans increased $327 million, or 3%, from December 31, 2021 as loan originations exceeded payoffs. Average commercial construction loans decreased $325 million, or 6%, from December 31, 2021 as payoffs exceeded draws on existing commitments and loan originations. Average commercial leases decreased $302 million, or 10%, from December 31, 2021 primarily as a result of a planned reduction in indirect non-relationship-based lease originations. Average consumer loans increased $92 million from December 31, 2021 primarily due to increases in average indirect secured consumer loans and average other consumer loans, partially offset by decreases in average residential mortgage loans and average home equity. Average indirect secured consumer loans increased $1.8 billion, or 12%, from December 31, 2021 primarily driven by higher demand and other favorable market conditions as well as lower indirect automobile prepayments and increased loan production in non-automobile indirect loans. Average other consumer loans increased $602 million, or 20%, from December 31, 2021 primarily driven by originations of point-of-sale solar energy installation loans in the second half of 2022, in addition to loans acquired in a business acquisition completed in the second quarter of 2022. Average residential mortgage loans decreased $1.6 billion, or 8%, from December 31, 2021 primarily due to decreases in residential mortgage loans held for sale as the Bancorp sold government-guaranteed loans that were previously in forbearance programs. Average home equity decreased $594 million, or 13%, from December 31, 2021 as payoffs exceeded loan originations and new advances. Investment Securities The Bancorp uses investment securities as a means of managing interest rate risk, providing collateral for pledging purposes and for liquidity risk management. Total investment securities we re $52.2 billion an d $39.0 billion at December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. The taxable available-for-sale debt and other investment securities portfolio had an effective duration of 5.4 at December 31, 2022 compared to 4.8 at December 31, 2021. Debt securities are classified as available-for-sale when, in management’s judgment, they may be sold in response to, or in anticipation of, changes in market conditions. Securities that management has the intent and ability to hold to maturity are classified as held-to-maturity and reported at amortized cost. Debt securities are classified as trading when bought and held principally for the purpose of selling them in the near term. At December 31, 2022, the Bancorp’s investment portfolio consisted primarily of AAA-rated available-for-sale debt and other securities. The Bancorp held an immaterial amount of below-investment grade available-for-sale debt and other securities at both December 31, 2022 and 2021. During the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, the Bancorp recognized $1 million and $19, respectively, of impairment losses on available-for-sale debt and other securities, included in securities (losses) gains, net, in the Consolidated Statements of Income. These losses related to certain securities in unrealized loss positions that the Bancorp intended to sell prior to recovery of their amortized cost bases. The Bancorp did not consider these losses to be credit-related. 82 Fifth Third Bancorp MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS At both December 31, 2022 and 2021, the Bancorp completed its evaluation of the available-for-sale debt and other securities in an unrealized loss position and did not recognize an allowance for credit losses. The Bancorp did not recognize provision expense for both the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 related to available-for-sale debt and other securities in an unrealized loss position. The following table summarizes the end of period components of investment securities: (a) Other securities consist of FHLB, FRB and DTCC restricted stock holdings that are carried at cost. On an amortized cost basis, available-for-sale debt and other securities in creased $20.6 billion from December 31, 2021 as a result of the deployment of excess short-term investments into longer duration assets in the investment portfolio. On an amortized cost basis, available-for-sale debt and other securities were 30% and 20% of total interest-earning assets at December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. The estimated weighted-average life of the debt securities in the available-for-sale debt and other securities portfolio wa s 6.8 years and 6.6 years at December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. In addition, at December 31, 2022 and 2021, the debt securities in the available-for-sale debt and other securities portfolio had a weighted-average yield o f 2.97% and 2.77%, respectively. Information presented in Table 23 is on a weighted-average life basis, anticipating future prepayments. Yield information is presented on an FTE basis and is computed using amortized cost balances and reflects the impact of prepayments. Maturity and yield calculations for the total available-for-sale debt and other securities portfolio exclude other securities that have no stated yield or maturity. Total net unrealized losses on the available-for-sale debt and other securities portfolio were $6.0 billion at December 31, 2022 compared to net unrealized gains of $1.2 billion at December 31, 2021. The fair value of investment securities is impacted by interest rates, credit spreads, market volatility and liquidity conditions. The fair value of the Bancorp’s investment securities portfolio generally decreases when interest rates increase or when credit spreads widen. 83 Fifth Third Bancorp MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (a) Taxable-equivalent yield adjustments included in the above table are 0.15% and 0.03% for securities with an average life greater than 10 years and in total, respectively. Other Short-Term Investments Other short-term investments primarily include overnight interest-earning investments, including reserves held at the FRB. The Bancorp uses other short-term investments as part of its liquidity risk management tools. Other short-term investments were $8.4 billion and $34.6 billion at December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. The decrease of $26.2 billion from December 31, 2021 was primarily attributable to purchases of investment securities, a decline in core deposit balances and loan growth during the year ended December 31, 2022. Deposits The Bancorp’s deposit balances represent an important source of funding and revenue growth opportunity. The Bancorp continues to focus on core deposit growth in its retail and commercial franchises by improving customer satisfaction, building full relationships and offering competitive rates. Average core deposits represented 78% and 79% of average total assets for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. 84 Fifth Third Bancorp MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following table presents the end of period components of deposits: (a) Includes retail brokered certificates of deposit. Core deposits decreased $8.6 billion, or 5%, from December 31, 2021, driven by a decrease in transaction deposits, partially offset by an increase in CDs $250,000 or less. Transaction deposits decreased $9.9 billion, or 6%, from December 31, 2021 primarily due to decreases in demand deposits and  money market deposits, partially offset by increases in interest checking deposits and savings deposits. Demand deposits decreased $12.0 billion, or 18%, from December 31, 2021 primarily as a result of lower balances per commercial customer account and balance migration into interest checking deposits, partially offset by consumer balance growth. Money market deposits decreased $2.0 billion, or 7%, from December 31, 2021 primarily as a result of lower balances per commercial customer account, balance migration into interest checking deposits and lower balances per consumer customer account due to inflationary pressures. Interest checking deposits increased $2.8 billion, or 6%, from December 31, 2021 primarily as a result of balance migration from demand deposits and money market deposits, partially offset by lower balances per customer account. Lower commercial customer account balances in demand deposits, money market deposits and interest checking deposits included the impact of deliberate runoff during the second quarter of 2022 of certain higher cost commercial deposits. Savings deposits increased $1.2 billion, or 6%, from December 31, 2021 primarily as a result of consumer balance growth and balance migration from interest checking deposits. CDs $250,000 or less increased $1.3 billion, or 53%, from December 31, 2021 primarily due to higher offering rates. CDs over $250,000 increased $3.0 billion from December 31, 2021 primarily due to an increase in retail brokered certificates of deposit issued. The following table presents the components of average deposits for the years ended December 31: (a) Includes retail brokered certificates of deposit. On an average basis, core deposits decreased $1.1 billion, or 1%, from December 31, 2021 due to a decrease in average CDs $250,000 or less and a decrease in average transaction deposits. Average CDs $250,000 or less decreased $872 million, or 27%, primarily due to lower offering rates during the first three quarters of 2022, partially offset by higher offering rates during the fourth quarter of 2022. Average transaction deposits decreased $243 million from December 31, 2021, primarily driven by decreases in average demand deposits and average money market deposits, partially offset by an increase in average savings deposits. Average demand deposits decreased $1.8 billion, or 3%, from December 31, 2021 primarily as a result of lower average balances per commercial customer account and balance migration into interest checking deposits, partially offset by higher average balances per consumer customer account. Average money market deposits decreased $1.3 billion, or 4%, from December 31, 2021 primarily as a result of lower average balances per commercial customer account and balance migration into interest checking deposits, partially offset by higher average balances per consumer customer account. Average interest checking deposits decreased $15 million from December 31, 2021 primarily as a result of lower average balances per commercial customer 85 Fifth Third Bancorp MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS account, partially offset by balance migration from demand deposits and money market deposits. Lower average commercial customer account balances in demand deposits, money market deposits and interest checking deposits included the impact of deliberate runoff during the second quarter of 2022 of certain higher cost commercial deposits. Average savings deposits increased $2.9 billion, or 14%, from December 31, 2021 primarily as a result of consumer balance growth. Average CDs over $250,000 increased $1.2 billion from December 31, 2021 primarily due to an increase in retail brokered certificates of deposit issued. Contractual maturities The contractual maturities of CDs as of December 31, 2022 are summarized in the following table: (a) Includes CDs $250,000 or less and CDs over $250,000. Deposit insurance The FDIC generally provides a standard amount of insurance of $250,000 per depositor, per insured bank, for each account ownership category defined by the FDIC. Depositors may qualify for coverage of accounts over $250,000 if they have funds in different ownership categories and all FDIC requirements are met. All deposits that an account holder has in the same ownership category at the same bank are added together and insured up to the standard insurance amount. As of December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021, approximately $69.4 billion and $80.2 billion, respectively, of the Bancorp’s domestic deposits were uninsured. At December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021, approximately $727 million and $468 million, respectively, of the Bancorp’s time deposits were not fully insured. The estimated uninsured portions of those time deposits were $306 million and $236 million at December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021, respectively. Where information is not readily available to determine the amount of insured deposits, the amount of uninsured deposits is estimated, consistent with the methodologies and assumptions utilized in providing information to the Bank’s regulators. Borrowings The Bancorp accesses a variety of short-term and long-term funding sources. Borrowings with original maturities of one year or less are classified as short-term and include federal funds purchased and other short-term borrowings. Total average borrowings as a percent of average interest-bearing liabilities were 14% at December 31, 2022 compared to 13% at December 31, 2021. The following table summarizes the end of period components of borrowings: Total borrowings increased $5.7 billion, or 43%, from December 31, 2021 primarily due to increases in other short-term borrowings and long-term debt. Other short-term borrowings increased $3.9 billion from December 31, 2021 primarily due to increased funding needs resulting from an increase in investment securities, loan growth and a decline in core deposit balances. The level of other short-term borrowings can fluctuate significantly from period to period depending on funding needs and the sources that are used to satisfy those needs. For further information on the components of other short-term borrowings, refer to Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Long-term debt increased $1.9 billion from December 31, 2021 primarily driven by the issuances of senior fixed-rate/floating-rate notes in April, July and October of 2022 totaling $4.0 billion. These increases were partially offset by the early redemptions under the par call options of $1.5 billion of notes, $460 million of fair value adjustments associated with interest rate swaps hedging long-term debt and $182 million of paydowns on long-term debt associated with loan securitizations during the year ended December 31, 2022. For additional information regarding the long-term debt issuances, refer to Note 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 86 Fifth Third Bancorp MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following table summarizes the components of average borrowings: Total average borrowings increased $2.3 billion, or 16%, compared to December 31, 2021 primarily due to an increase in average other short-term borrowings, partially offset by a decrease in average long-term debt. Average other short-term borrowings increased $3.4 billion compared to December 31, 2021 primarily due to increased funding needs resulting from an increase in investment securities, loan growth and a decline in core deposit balances. Average long-term debt decreased $1.2 billion compared to December 31, 2021 primarily driven by the early redemptions under the par call options of $1.5 billion of notes, $460 million of fair value adjustments associated with interest rate swaps hedging long-term debt and $182 million of paydowns on long-term debt associated with loan securitizations during the year ended December 31, 2022, partially offset by the issuances of senior fixed-rate/floating-rate notes in April, July and October of 2022 totaling $4.0 billion. Information on the average rates paid on borrowings is discussed in the Net Interest Income subsection of the Statements of Income Analysis section of MD&A. In addition, refer to the Liquidity Risk Management subsection of the Risk Management section of MD&A for a discussion on the role of borrowings in the Bancorp’s liquidity management. 87 Fifth Third Bancorp MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS RISK MANAGEMENT – OVERVIEW Effective risk management is critical to the Bancorp’s ongoing success and ensures that the Bancorp operates in a safe and sound manner, complies with applicable laws and regulations and safeguards the Bancorp’s brand and reputation. Risks are inherent in the Bancorp’s business and are influenced by both internal and external factors. The Bancorp is responsible for managing these risks effectively to deliver through-the-cycle value and performance for the Bancorp’s shareholders, customers, employees and communities. Fifth Third’s Enterprise Risk Management Framework, which is approved annually by the Capital Committee, ERMC, RCC and the Board of Directors, includes the following key elements: • The Bancorp ensures transparency and escalation of risk through defined risk policies and a governance structure that includes the RCC, ERMC and other management-level risk committees and councils. • The Bancorp establishes a risk appetite in alignment with its strategic, financial and capital plans. The Bancorp’s risk appetite is defined using quantitative metrics and qualitative measures to ensure prudent risk taking and drive balanced decision making. The Bancorp’s goal is to ensure that aggregate residual risks do not exceed the Bancorp’s risk appetite, and that risks taken are supportive of the Bancorp’s portfolio diversification and profitability objectives. The Board and executive management approve the risk appetite, which is considered in the development of business strategies and forms the basis for enterprise risk management. • The core principles that define the Bancorp’s risk appetite are as follows: ◦ Act with integrity in all activities. ◦ Understand the risks taken and ensure that they are in alignment with the Bancorp’s business strategies and risk appetite. ◦ Avoid risks that cannot be understood, managed or monitored. ◦ Provide transparency of risk to the Bancorp’s management and Board by escalating risks and issues as necessary. ◦ Ensure Fifth Third’s products and services are aligned to the Bancorp’s core customer base and are designed, delivered and maintained to provide value and benefit to the Bancorp’s customers and to Fifth Third. ◦ Only offer products or services that are appropriate or suitable for the Bancorp’s customers. ◦ Focus on providing operational excellence by providing reliable, accurate and efficient services to meet the Bancorp’s customers’ needs. ◦ Maintain a strong financial position to ensure the Bancorp meets its strategic objectives through all economic cycles and is able to access the capital markets at all times, even under stressed conditions. ◦ Protect the Bancorp’s reputation by thoroughly understanding the consequences of business strategies, products and processes. ◦ Conduct the Bancorp’s business in compliance with all applicable laws, rules and regulations and in alignment with internal policies and procedures. • Fifth Third’s core values and culture provide the foundation for sound risk management practices by establishing expectations for appropriate conduct and accountability across the organization. All employees are expected to conduct themselves in alignment with Fifth Third’s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, which may be found on www.53.com, while carrying out their responsibilities. Fifth Third’s Corporate Reputation Risk Committee provides oversight of business conduct policies, programs and strategies, and monitors reporting of potential misconduct, trends or themes across the enterprise. Prudent risk management is a responsibility that is expected from all employees and is a foundational element of Fifth Third’s culture. • The Bancorp manages eight defined risk types to a prescribed appetite. The risk types are credit risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk, price risk, legal and regulatory compliance risk, operational risk, reputation risk and strategic risk. • The Bancorp identifies and monitors existing and potential risks that may impact the company’s risk profile, including emerging risks that create uncertainties and/or would have broad implications if materialized (e.g. global pandemics, climate change, etc.). Enhanced monitoring and action plans are implemented as necessary to proactively mitigate risk. • Fifth Third’s Risk Management Process provides a consistent and integrated approach for managing risks. The five components of the Risk Management Process are: identify, assess, manage, monitor and report. The Bancorp has also established processes and programs to manage and report concentration risks, to ensure robust talent, performance and compensation management, and to aggregate risks across the enterprise. Fifth Third drives accountability for managing risk through its Three Lines of Defense structure: • The first line of defense is comprised of front-line units (and enterprise-wide functions that support front-line units) that create risk or are involved in risk-taking activities and are accountable for managing risk. These groups are the Bancorp’s primary risk takers and are responsible for implementing effective internal controls and maintaining processes for identifying, assessing, and managing the risks associated with their activities consistent with established risk appetite and limits. • The second line of defense, or Independent Risk Management, consists of Risk Management, Compliance and Credit Risk Review. The second line is responsible for developing enterprise frameworks and policies to govern risk-taking activities, overseeing risk-taking of the organization, advising on controlling that risk, assessing risks and issues independent of the first line of defense, and providing input on key risk decisions. Risk Management complements the front line’s management of risk-taking activities through its monitoring and reporting responsibilities, including adherence to the Bancorp Risk Appetite. Additionally, the second line of defense is responsible for identifying, assessing, managing, monitoring and reporting on aggregate risks enterprise-wide. • The third line of defense is Internal Audit, which provides oversight of the first and second lines of defense, and independent assurance to the Board on the effectiveness of governance, risk management and internal controls. 88 Fifth Third Bancorp MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT The objective of the Bancorp’s credit risk management strategy is to quantify and manage credit risk on an aggregate portfolio basis, as well as to limit the risk of loss resulting from the failure of a borrower or counterparty to honor its financial or contractual obligations to the Bancorp. The Bancorp’s credit risk management strategy is based on three core principles: conservatism, diversification and monitoring. The Bancorp believes that effective credit risk management begins with conservative lending practices which are described below. These practices include the use of intentional risk-based limits for single name exposures and counterparty selection criteria designed to reduce or eliminate exposure to borrowers who have higher than average default risk and defined weaknesses in financial performance. The Bancorp carefully designs and monitors underwriting, documentation and collection standards. The Bancorp’s credit risk management strategy also emphasizes diversification on a geographic, industry and customer level as well as ongoing portfolio monitoring and timely management reviews of large credit exposures and credits experiencing deterioration of credit quality. Credit officers with the authority to extend credit are delegated specific authority amounts based on risk and exposure amount, the use of which is closely monitored. Underwriting activities are centrally managed, and Credit Risk Management manages the policy and the authority delegation process directly. The Credit Risk Review function provides independent and objective assessments of the quality of underwriting and documentation, the accuracy of risk grades and the charge-off, nonaccrual and reserve analysis process. The Bancorp’s credit review process and overall assessment of the adequacy of the ACL is based on quarterly assessments of the estimated losses expected in the loan and lease portfolio. The Bancorp uses these assessments  to maintain an adequate ACL and record any necessary charge-offs. Additional loans and leases with probable or observed credit weaknesses receive enhanced monitoring and undergo a periodic review. Refer to Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the Bancorp’s credit grade categories, which are derived from standard regulatory rating definitions. In addition, stress testing is performed on various commercial and consumer portfolios utilizing various models. For certain portfolios, such as real estate and leveraged lending, stress testing is performed at the individual loan level during credit underwriting. In addition to the individual review of larger commercial loans that exhibit probable or observed credit weaknesses, the commercial credit review process includes the use of two risk grading systems. The first of these risk grading systems is based on regulatory guidance for credit risk systems. These ratings are used by the Bancorp to monitor and manage its credit risk. The Bancorp also separately maintains a dual risk rating system for credit approval and pricing, portfolio monitoring and capital allocation that includes a “through-the-cycle” rating philosophy for assessing a borrower’s creditworthiness. This “through-the-cycle” rating philosophy uses a grading scale that assigns ratings based on average default rates through an entire business cycle for borrowers with similar financial performance. The dual risk rating system includes thirteen grade categories for estimating probabilities of default and an additional eleven grade categories for estimating losses given an event of default. The probability of default and loss given default evaluations are not separated in the regulatory risk rating system. The Bancorp utilizes internally developed models to estimate expected credit losses for portfolio loans and leases. For loans and leases that are collectively evaluated, the Bancorp utilizes these models to forecast expected credit losses over a reasonable and supportable forecast period based on the probability of a loan or lease defaulting, the expected balance at the estimated date of default and the expected loss percentage given a default. Refer to Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information about the Bancorp’s processes for developing these models, estimating credit losses for periods beyond the reasonable and supportable forecast period and for estimating credit losses for individually evaluated loans. For the commercial portfolio segment, the estimated probabilities of default are primarily based on the probability of default ratings assigned under the through-the-cycle dual risk rating system and historical observations of how those ratings migrate to a default over time in the context of macroeconomic conditions. For loans with available credit, the estimate of the expected balance at the time of default considers expected utilization rates, which are primarily based on macroeconomic conditions and the utilization history of similar borrowers under those economic conditions. The estimates for loss severity are primarily based on collateral type and coverage levels and the susceptibility of those characteristics to changes in macroeconomic conditions. For collectively evaluated loans in the consumer and residential mortgage portfolio segments, the Bancorp’s expected credit loss models primarily utilize the borrower’s FICO score and delinquency history in combination with macroeconomic conditions when estimating the probability of default. The estimates for loss severity are primarily based on collateral type and coverage levels and the susceptibility of those characteristics to changes in macroeconomic conditions. The expected balance at the estimated date of default is also especially impactful in the expected credit loss models for portfolio classes which generally have longer terms (such as residential mortgage loans and home equity) and portfolio classes containing a high concentration of loans with revolving privileges (such as home equity). The estimate of the expected balance at the time of default considers expected prepayment and utilization rates where applicable, which are primarily based on macroeconomic conditions and the utilization history of similar borrowers under those economic conditions. The Bancorp also utilizes various scoring systems, analytical tools and portfolio performance monitoring processes to assess the credit risk of the consumer and residential mortgage portfolios. Overview With nominal growth significantly above trend and inflationary pressures building in 2022, the Federal Reserve engaged in the most aggressive monetary tightening cycle since the early 1980’s. The target federal funds rate increased 425 bps compared to market expectations entering the year of only 75 bps in rate hikes. At the same time the Federal Reserve began the process of reducing their holdings of Treasury 89 Fifth Third Bancorp MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS and Agency MBS securities at a pace of $95 billion per month. Financial markets experienced one of their worst years on record as the tightening in monetary policy resulted in negative returns for both equities and bonds. Financial market volatility remained high throughout the fourth quarter of 2022 as investors assessed the impact of the FOMC’s aggressive rate hikes on the macroeconomic outlook. As the Federal Reserve continues to tighten monetary policy, investors have become more concerned about a recession and its impact on economic growth and corporate earnings in 2023. Although employment data has remained resilient, other economic reports for consumer spending and business investment along with sentiment surveys have reflected a slowing economy. With the FOMC moving monetary policy into a restrictive setting, the increase in real yields along with the inversion of the yield curve are signaling increasing risks of a recession. At the December 2022 FOMC meeting, FRB officials indicated monetary policy would need to remain restrictive throughout 2023 to achieve a better balance of supply and demand in the labor market. FRB officials have indicated a positive real federal funds rate will be necessary to return personal consumption expenditures inflation to their long-term target of 2%. The real federal funds rate has been negative since 2007. This adjustment to a positive real federal funds rate may be disruptive to economic activity in 2023. Commercial Portfolio The Bancorp’s credit risk management strategy seeks to minimize concentrations of risk through diversification. The Bancorp has commercial loan concentration limits based on industry, lines of business within the commercial segment, geography and credit product type. The risk within the commercial loan and lease portfolio is managed and monitored through an underwriting process utilizing detailed origination policies, continuous loan level reviews, monitoring of industry concentration and product type limits and continuous portfolio risk management reporting. The Bancorp is closely monitoring various economic conditions and their impacts on commercial borrowers, including the pace of inflation, rising interest rates, labor and supply chain issues, and changes in consumer discretionary spending patterns, among others. The Bancorp maintains focus on disciplined client selection, adherence to underwriting policy and attention to borrower and industry concentrations. The Bancorp provides loans to a variety of customers ranging from large multinational firms to middle market businesses, sole proprietors and high net worth individuals. The origination policies for commercial and industrial loans outline the risks and underwriting requirements for loans to businesses in various industries. Included in the policies are maturity and amortization terms, collateral and leverage requirements, cash flow coverage measures and hold limits. The Bancorp aligns credit and sales teams with specific industry expertise to better monitor and manage different industry segments of the portfolio. 90 Fifth Third Bancorp MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following table provides detail on commercial loans and leases by industry classification (as defined by the North American Industry Classification System), by loan size and by state, illustrating the diversity and granularity of the Bancorp’s commercial loans and leases: The origination policies for commercial real estate outline the risks and underwriting requirements for owner and nonowner-occupied and construction lending. Included in the policies are maturity and amortization terms, maximum LTVs, minimum debt service coverage ratios, construction loan monitoring procedures, appraisal requirements, pre-leasing requirements (as applicable), pro forma analysis requirements and interest rate sensitivity. The Bancorp requires a valuation of real estate collateral, which may include third-party appraisals, be performed at the time of origination and renewal in accordance with regulatory requirements and on an as-needed basis when market conditions justify. The Bancorp maintains an appraisal review department to order and review third-party appraisals in accordance with regulatory requirements. Collateral values on nonaccrual assets with relationships exceeding $1 million are reviewed quarterly to assess the appropriateness of the 91 Fifth Third Bancorp MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS value ascribed in the assessment of charge-offs and specific reserves. Additionally, collateral values are also reviewed at least annually for all criticized assets. The Bancorp assesses all real estate and non-real estate collateral securing a loan and considers all cross-collateralized loans in the calculation of the LTV ratio. The following tables provide detail on the most recent LTV ratios for commercial mortgage loans greater than $1 million, excluding commercial mortgage loans that are individually evaluated for an ACL. The Bancorp does not typically aggregate the LTV ratios for commercial mortgage loans less than $1 million. The Bancorp views nonowner-occupied commercial real estate as a higher credit risk product compared to some other commercial loan portfolios due to the higher volatility of the industry. The following tables provide an analysis of nonowner-occupied commercial real estate loans by state (excluding loans held for sale): (a) Included in commercial mortgage loans and commercial construction loans in the Loans and Leases subsection of the Balance Sheet Analysis section of MD&A. 92 Fifth Third Bancorp MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (a) Included in commercial mortgage loans and commercial construction loans in the Loans and Leases subsection of the Balance Sheet Analysis section of MD&A. Consumer Portfolio Consumer credit risk management utilizes a framework that encompasses consistent processes for identifying, assessing, managing, monitoring and reporting credit risk. These processes are supported by a credit risk governance structure that includes Board oversight, policies, risk limits and risk committees. The Bancorp’s consumer portfolio is materially comprised of five categories of loans: residential mortgage loans, home equity, indirect secured consumer loans, credit card and other consumer loans. The Bancorp has identified certain credit characteristics within these five categories of loans which it believes represent a higher level of risk compared to the rest of the consumer loan portfolio. The Bancorp does not update LTVs for the consumer portfolio subsequent to origination except as part of the charge-off process for real estate secured loans. The Bancorp actively manages the consumer portfolio through concentration limits, which mitigate credit risk through limiting the exposure to lower FICO scores, higher LTVs and specific geographic concentration risks. The Bancorp continues to ensure that underwriting standards and guidelines adequately account for the broader economic conditions that the consumer portfolio faces in a rising-rate environment. Guidelines are designed to ensure that the various consumer products fall within the Bancorp’s risk appetite. These guidelines will be monitored and adjusted as deemed appropriate in response to the prevailing economic conditions while remaining within the Bancorp’s risk tolerance limits. The payment structures for certain variable rate products (such as residential mortgage loans, home equity and credit card) are susceptible to changes in benchmark interest rates. With continued increases in interest rates, minimum payments on these products also increase, raising the potential for the environment to be disruptive to some borrowers. The Bancorp actively monitors the portion of its consumer portfolio that is susceptible to increases in minimum payments and continues to assess the impact on the overall risk appetite and soundness of the portfolio. Residential mortgage portfolio The Bancorp manages credit risk in the residential mortgage portfolio through underwriting guidelines that limit exposure to higher LTVs and lower FICO scores. Additionally, the portfolio is governed by concentration limits that ensure geographic, product and channel diversification. The Bancorp may also package and sell loans in the portfolio. The Bancorp does not originate residential mortgage loans that permit customers to defer principal payments or make payments that are less than the accruing interest. The Bancorp originates both fixed-rate and ARM loans. Within the ARM portfolio, approximately $514 million of ARM loans will have rate resets during the next twelve months. Of these resets, substantially all are expected to experience an increase in rate, with an average increase of approximately 1.97%. Underlying characteristics of these borrowers are relatively strong with a weighted-average origination DTI of 35% and weighted-average origination LTV of 72%. Certain residential mortgage products have characteristics that may increase the Bancorp’s credit loss rates in the event of a decline in housing values. These types of mortgage products offered by the Bancorp include loans with high LTVs, multiple loans secured by the same collateral that when combined result in an LTV greater than 80% and interest-only loans. The Bancorp has deemed residential mortgage loans with greater than 80% LTVs and no mortgage insurance as loans that represent a higher level of risk. 93 Fifth Third Bancorp MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following table provides an analysis of the residential mortgage portfolio loans outstanding by LTV at origination as of: (a) Includes loans with either borrower or lender paid mortgage insurance. The following tables provide an analysis of the residential mortgage portfolio loans outstanding by state with a greater than 80% LTV at origination and no mortgage insurance: Home equity portfolio The Bancorp’s home equity portfolio is primarily comprised of home equity lines of credit. Beginning in the first quarter of 2013, the Bancorp’s newly originated home equity lines of credit have a 10-year interest-only draw period followed by a 20-year amortization period. The home equity line of credit previously offered by the Bancorp was a revolving facility with a 20-year term, minimum payments of interest-only and a balloon payment of principal at maturity. Approximately 37% of the outstanding balances of the Bancorp’s portfolio of home equity lines of credit have a balloon structure at maturity. Peak maturity years for the balloon home equity lines of credit are 2025 to 2028 and approximately 15% of the balances mature before 2025. The ALLL provides coverage for expected losses in the home equity portfolio. The allowance attributable to the portion of the home equity portfolio that has not been restructured in a TDR is determined on a pooled basis using a probability of default, loss given default and exposure at default model framework to generate expected losses. The expected losses for the home equity portfolio are dependent upon loan delinquency, FICO scores, LTV, loan age and their historical correlation with macroeconomic variables including unemployment and the home price index. The expected losses generated from models are adjusted by certain qualitative adjustment factors to reflect risks associated 94 Fifth Third Bancorp MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS with current conditions and trends. The qualitative factors include adjustments for changes in policies or procedures in underwriting, monitoring or collections, economic conditions, portfolio mix, lending and risk management personnel, results of internal audit and quality control reviews, collateral values and geographic concentrations. The home equity portfolio is managed in two primary groups: loans outstanding with a combined LTV greater than 80% and those loans with an LTV of 80% or less based upon appraisals at origination. For additional information on these loans, refer to Table 38 and Table 39. Of the total $4.0 billion of outstanding home equity loans: • 78% reside within the Bancorp’s Midwest footprint of Ohio, Michigan, Illinois, Indiana and Kentucky as of December 31, 2022; • 39% are in senior lien positions and 61% are in junior lien positions at December 31, 2022; • 78% of non-delinquent borrowers made at least one payment greater than the minimum payment during the year ended December 31, 2022; and • The portfolio had a weighted-average refreshed FICO score of 751 at December 31, 2022. The Bancorp actively manages lines of credit and makes adjustments in lending limits when it believes it is necessary based on FICO score deterioration and property devaluation. The Bancorp does not routinely obtain appraisals on performing loans to update LTVs after origination. However, the Bancorp monitors the local housing markets by reviewing various home price indices and incorporates the impact of the changing market conditions in its ongoing credit monitoring processes. For junior lien home equity loans which become 60 days or more past due, the Bancorp tracks the performance of the senior lien loans in which the Bancorp is the servicer and utilizes consumer credit bureau attributes to monitor the status of the senior lien loans that the Bancorp does not service. If the senior lien loan is found to be 120 days or more past due, the junior lien home equity loan is placed on nonaccrual status unless both loans are well-secured and in the process of collection. Additionally, if the junior lien home equity loan becomes 120 days or more past due and the senior lien loan is also 120 days or more past due, the junior lien home equity loan is assessed for charge-off. Refer to the Analysis of Nonperforming Assets subsection of the Risk Management section of MD&A and Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. The following table provides an analysis of home equity portfolio loans outstanding disaggregated based upon refreshed FICO score: The Bancorp believes that home equity portfolio loans with a greater than 80% LTV (including senior liens, if applicable) present a higher level of risk. The following table provides an analysis of the home equity portfolio loans outstanding in a senior and junior lien position by LTV at origination: 95 Fifth Third Bancorp MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following tables provide an analysis of home equity portfolio loans outstanding by state with a LTV greater than 80% (including senior liens, if applicable) at origination: Indirect secured consumer portfolio The indirect secured consumer portfolio is comprised of $14.0 billion of automobile loans and $2.6 billion of indirect motorcycle, powersport, recreational vehicle and marine loans as of December 31, 2022. All concentration and guideline changes are monitored monthly to ensure alignment with original credit performance and return projections. The following table provides an analysis of indirect secured consumer portfolio loans outstanding disaggregated based upon FICO score at origination: It is a common industry practice to advance on these types of loans an amount in excess of the collateral value due to the inclusion of negative equity trade-in, maintenance/warranty products, taxes, title and other fees paid at closing. The Bancorp monitors its exposure to these higher risk loans. 96 Fifth Third Bancorp MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following table provides an analysis of indirect secured consumer portfolio loans outstanding by LTV at origination: The following table provides an analysis of the Bancorp’s indirect secured consumer portfolio loans outstanding with an LTV greater than 100% at origination as of and for the years ended: Credit card portfolio The credit card portfolio consists of predominantly prime accounts with 98% of balances existing within the Bancorp’s footprint at both December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021. At both December 31, 2022 and 2021, 72% of the outstanding balances were originated through branch-based relationships with the remainder coming from direct mail campaigns and online acquisitions. The following table provides an analysis of the Bancorp’s outstanding credit card portfolio disaggregated based upon FICO score at origination: Other consumer portfolio loans Other consumer portfolio loans are comprised of secured and unsecured loans originated through the Bancorp’s branch network, home improvement and solar energy installation loans originated through a network of contractors and installers, and other point-of-sale loans originated or purchased in connection with third-party companies. The Bancorp closely monitors the credit performance of point-of-sale loans. Loans originated in connection with one third-party company are impacted by certain credit loss protection coverage provided by that company. The Bancorp discontinued origination of new loans with this third-party company in September 2022. The following table provides an analysis of other consumer portfolio loans outstanding by product type: 97 Fifth Third Bancorp MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Analysis of Nonperforming Assets Nonperforming assets include nonaccrual loans and leases for which ultimate collectability of the full amount of the principal and/or interest is uncertain; restructured commercial, credit card and consumer loans which do not meet the requirements to be classified as a performing asset; and certain other assets, including OREO and other repossessed property. A summary of nonperforming assets is included in Table 46. For further information on the Bancorp’s policies related to accounting for delinquent and nonperforming loans and leases, refer to the Nonaccrual Loans and Leases section of Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Nonperforming assets were $539 million at December 31, 2022 compared to $542 million at December 31, 2021. At December 31, 2022, an immaterial amount of nonaccrual loans were held for sale, compared to $15 million at December 31, 2021. Nonperforming portfolio assets as a percent of portfolio loans and leases and OREO were 0.44% and 0.47% at December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Nonaccrual loans and leases secured by real estate were 42% of nonaccrual loans and leases as of December 31, 2022 compared to 33% as of December 31, 2021. Portfolio commercial nonaccrual loans and leases were $263 million at December 31, 2022, a decrease of $74 million from December 31, 2021. Portfolio consumer nonaccrual loans were $252 million at December 31, 2022, an increase of $91 million from December 31, 2021. Refer to Table 47 for a rollforward of the portfolio nonaccrual loans and leases. OREO and other repossessed property was $24 million and $29 million at December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. The Bancorp recognized an immaterial amount and $6 million in losses on the transfer, sale or write-down of OREO properties during the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. During the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, approximately $34 million and $33 million, respectively, of interest income would have been recognized if the nonaccrual and restructured loans and leases on nonaccrual status had been current in accordance with their contractual terms. Although these values help demonstrate the costs of carrying nonaccrual credits, the Bancorp does not expect to recover the full amount of interest as nonaccrual loans and leases are generally carried below their principal balance. 98 Fifth Third Bancorp MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (a) Information for all periods presented excludes advances made pursuant to servicing agreements for GNMA mortgage pools whose repayments are insured by the FHA or guaranteed by the VA. These advances were $212 and $349 as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. The Bancorp recognized losses of $2 for both the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 due to claim denials and curtailments associated with these insured or guaranteed loans. (b) Includes $15 and $26 of nonaccrual government insured commercial loans whose repayments are insured by the SBA as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, of which $11 are restructured nonaccrual government insured commercial loans as of both December 31, 2022 and 2021. (c) During the first quarter of 2022, the Bancorp amended its definition of nonperforming loans to include residential mortgage loans that are past due 150 days or more and not fully or partially guaranteed by government agencies. 99 Fifth Third Bancorp MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following tables provide a rollforward of portfolio nonaccrual loans and leases, by portfolio segment: (a) During the first quarter of 2022, the Bancorp amended its definition of nonperforming loans to include residential mortgage loans that are past due 150 days or more and not fully or partially guaranteed by government agencies. Troubled Debt Restructurings A loan is accounted for as a TDR if the Bancorp, for economic or legal reasons related to the borrower’s financial difficulties, grants a concession to the borrower that it would not otherwise consider. TDRs include concessions granted under reorganization, arrangement or other provisions of the Federal Bankruptcy Act. A TDR typically involves a modification of terms such as a reduction of the stated interest rate or remaining principal amount of the loan, a reduction of accrued interest or an extension of the maturity date at a stated interest rate lower than the current market rate for a new loan with similar risk. Refer to Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the Bancorp’s accounting for TDRs. Consumer restructured loans on accrual status totaled $725 million and $675 million at December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. As of December 31, 2022, the percentages of restructured residential mortgage loans, home equity and credit card that were past due 30 days or more from their modified terms were 29%, 19% and 33%, respectively. The following tables summarize portfolio TDRs by loan type and delinquency status: (a) Excludes restructured nonaccrual loans held for sale. (b) Information includes advances made pursuant to servicing agreements for GNMA mortgage pools whose repayments are insured by the FHA or guaranteed by the VA or USDA. As of December 31, 2022, these advances represented $199 of current loans, $21 of 30-89 days past due loans, $65 of 90 days or more past due loans and $22 of nonaccrual loans. 100 Fifth Third Bancorp MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (a) Excludes restructured nonaccrual loans held for sale. (b) Information includes advances made pursuant to servicing agreements for GNMA mortgage pools whose repayments are insured by the FHA or guaranteed by the VA. As of December 31, 2021, these advances represented $144 of current loans, $14 of 30-89 days past due loans and $69 of 90 days or more past due loans. Analysis of Net Loan Charge-offs Net charge-offs were 19 bps and 16 bps of average portfolio loans and leases for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Table 51 provides a summary of credit loss experience and net charge-offs as a percentage of average portfolio loans and leases outstanding by loan category. The ratio of commercial loan and lease net charge-offs as a percent of average portfolio commercial loans and leases increased to 13 bps during the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to 10 bps during the same period in the prior year primarily due to an increase in net charge-offs on commercial and industrial loans of $36 million, partially offset by a decrease in net charge-offs on commercial mortgage loans of $9 million. The ratio of consumer loan net charge-offs as a percent of average portfolio consumer loans increased to 29 bps during the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to 26 bps during the same period in the prior year primarily due to increases in net charge-offs on indirect secured consumer loans and other consumer loans of $22 million and $11 million, respectively, partially offset by a decrease in net charge-offs on credit card of $18 million. 101 Fifth Third Bancorp MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (a) For the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, the Bancorp recorded $32, $33 and $42, respectively, in both losses charged off and recoveries of losses previously charged off related to customer defaults on point-of-sale consumer loans for which the Bancorp obtained recoveries under third-party credit enhancements. Allowance for Credit Losses The allowance for credit losses is comprised of the ALLL and the reserve for unfunded commitments. As described in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, the Bancorp maintains the ALLL to absorb the amount of credit losses that are expected to be incurred over the remaining contractual terms of the related loans and leases (as adjusted for prepayments and reasonably expected TDRs). The Bancorp’s methodology for determining the ALLL includes an estimate of expected credit losses on a collective basis for groups of loans and 102 Fifth Third Bancorp MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS leases with similar risk characteristics and specific allowances for loans and leases which are individually evaluated. For collectively evaluated loans and leases, the Bancorp uses quantitative models to forecast expected credit losses based on the probability of a loan or lease defaulting, the expected balance at the estimated date of default and the expected loss percentage given a default. The Bancorp’s expected credit loss models consider historical credit loss experience, current market and economic conditions, and forecasted changes in market and economic conditions if such forecasts are considered reasonable and supportable. The Bancorp also considers qualitative factors in determining the ALLL. Qualitative adjustments are used to capture characteristics in the portfolio that impact expected credit losses which are not fully captured within the Bancorp’s expected credit loss models. These factors include adjustments for changes in policies or procedures in underwriting, monitoring or collections, lending and risk management personnel and results of internal audit and quality control reviews. In addition, the qualitative adjustment framework can be utilized to address specific idiosyncratic risks such as geopolitical events, natural disasters or changes in current economic conditions that are not reflected in the quantitative credit loss models, and their effects on regional borrowers and changes in product structures. Qualitative factors may also be used to address the impacts of unforeseen events on key inputs and assumptions within the Bancorp’s expected credit loss models, such as the reasonable and supportable forecast period, changes to historical loss information or changes to the reversion period or methodology. In addition to the ALLL, the Bancorp maintains a reserve for unfunded commitments recorded in other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The methodology used to determine the adequacy of this reserve is similar to the Bancorp’s methodology for determining the ALLL. The provision for unfunded commitments is included in the provision for credit losses in the Consolidated Statements of Income. For the commercial portfolio segment, the estimates for probability of default are primarily based on internal ratings assigned to each commercial borrower on a 13-point scale and historical observations of how those ratings migrate to a default over time in the context of macroeconomic conditions. For loans with available credit, the estimate of the expected balance at the time of default considers expected utilization rates, which are primarily based on macroeconomic conditions and the utilization history of similar borrowers under those economic conditions. The estimates for loss severity are primarily based on collateral type and coverage levels and the susceptibility of those characteristics to changes in macroeconomic conditions. For collectively evaluated loans in the consumer and residential mortgage portfolio segments, the Bancorp’s expected credit loss models primarily utilize the borrower’s FICO score and delinquency history in combination with macroeconomic conditions when estimating the probability of default. The estimates for loss severity are primarily based on collateral type and coverage levels and the susceptibility of those characteristics to changes in macroeconomic conditions. The expected balance at the estimated date of default is also especially impactful in the expected credit loss models for portfolio classes which generally have longer terms (such as residential mortgage loans and home equity) and portfolio classes containing a high concentration of loans with revolving privileges (such as home equity). The estimate of the expected balance at the time of default considers expected prepayment and utilization rates where applicable, which are primarily based on macroeconomic conditions and the utilization history of similar borrowers under those economic conditions. At both December 31, 2022 and 2021, the Bancorp used three forward-looking economic scenarios during the reasonable and supportable forecast period in its expected credit loss models to address the inherent imprecision in macroeconomic forecasting. Each of the three scenarios was developed by a third party that is subject to the Bancorp’s Third-Party Risk Management program including oversight by the Bancorp’s independent model risk management group. The scenarios included a most likely outcome (Baseline) and two less probable scenarios with one being more favorable than the Baseline and the other being less favorable. The more favorable alternative scenario (Upside) depicted a stronger near-term growth outlook while the less favorable outlook (Downside) depicted a moderate recession. The Baseline scenario was developed such that the expectation is that the economy will perform better than the projection 50% of the time and worse than the projection 50% of the time. The Upside scenario was developed such that there is a 10% probability that the economy will perform better than the projection and a 90% probability that it will perform worse. The Downside scenario was developed such that there is a 90% probability that the economy will perform better than the projection and a 10% probability that it will perform worse. December 31, 2022 ACL The ACL as of December 31, 2022 was impacted by several factors, including growth in portfolio loan and lease balances, primarily concentrated in the commercial and industrial loan and other consumer loan portfolios and deterioration in the forecasted macroeconomic conditions in each of the three forecast scenarios. As a result of these factors, the Bancorp incorporated a combination of quantitative model-based estimates and qualitative adjustments. As of December 31, 2022, the Bancorp’s economic scenarios included estimates of the expected impacts of the changes in economic conditions caused by inflationary and rising interest rate pressures and the ongoing Russia-Ukraine conflict. At December 31, 2022,  the Bancorp assigned an 80% probability weighting to the Baseline scenario and 10% to each the Upside and Downside scenarios. The Baseline scenario assumed real GDP growth for the year ended 2022 at 1.8% with the forecast decreasing to 0.7% in 2023, and then increasing to 2.1% in 2024 and 2.7% in 2025. The Baseline scenario also assumed an average unemployment rate of 3.7% for the year ended 2022, increasing to an average of 4.0% in the forecast for both 2023 and 2024, modestly decreasing to an average of 3.8% in 2025. Lastly, the Baseline scenario assumed continued increases to the target federal funds rate, peaking at an average of 4.6% in 2023, and decreasing to an average of 3.9% and 3.0% in 2024 and 2025, respectively. The Upside scenario assumed a faster than anticipated resolution to the Russia- 103 Fifth Third Bancorp MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Ukraine conflict with related improvement to economic measures. The Upside scenario assumed that on an average annual basis, the change in real GDP is 3.4% in 2023, decreasing to 2.9% and 2.0% in 2024 and 2025, respectively. The Upside scenario also assumed an unemployment rate at an annual average of 3.4% in both 2023 and 2024, slightly declining to 3.3% in 2025. In the Upside scenario, the forecast for the federal funds rate was consistent with the Baseline scenario but with slightly lower increases resulting from an improving inflation outlook. The Downside scenario included significant worsening of the Russia-Ukraine conflict resulting in continued inflation, causing the U.S. economy to fall into a recession in the first quarter of 2023. The Downside scenario assumed that real GDP will decline throughout 2023, at an average of (1.5%), recovering to an average growth rate of 0.2% and 3.2% in 2024 and 2025, respectively. The Downside scenario unemployment rate peaks at 7.8% in the first quarter of 2024 and decreases to an average of 5.9% in 2025. In the Downside scenario, the forecast for the federal funds rate included higher increases than the Baseline scenario through the fourth quarter of 2023, followed by rapid decreases through 2025. The Bancorp’s quantitative credit loss models are sensitive to changes in economic forecast assumptions over the reasonable and supportable forecast period. Applying a 100% probability weighting to the Downside scenario rather than using the probability-weighted three scenario approach would result in an increase in the quantitative ACL of approximately $2.2 billion. This sensitivity calculation only reflects the impact of changing the probability weighting of the scenarios in the quantitative credit loss models and excludes any additional considerations associated with the qualitative component of the ACL that might be warranted if probability weights were adjusted. The following table provides a rollforward of the Bancorp’s ACL: (a) For the years ended December 31, 2022, 2021 and 2020, the Bancorp recorded $32, $33 and $42, respectively, in both losses charged-off and recoveries of losses previously charged-off related to customer defaults on point-of-sale consumer loans for which the Bancorp obtained recoveries under third-party credit enhancements. 104 Fifth Third Bancorp MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following table provides an attribution of the Bancorp’s ALLL to portfolio loans and leases: (a) Includes $123 and $154 of residential mortgage loans measured at fair value at December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. The Bancorp’s ALLL may vary significantly from period to period based on changes in economic conditions, economic forecasts and the composition and credit quality of the Bancorp’s loan and lease portfolio. For additional information on the Bancorp’s methodology for measuring the ACL, refer to Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 105 Fifth Third Bancorp MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS INTEREST RATE AND PRICE RISK MANAGEMENT Interest rate risk is the risk to earnings or capital arising from movement of interest rates. This risk primarily impacts the Bancorp’s income categories through changes in interest income on earning assets and the cost of interest-bearing liabilities, and through fee items that are related to interest sensitive activities such as mortgage origination and servicing income and through earnings credits earned on commercial deposits that offset commercial deposit fees. Price risk is the risk to earnings or capital arising from changes in the value of financial instruments and portfolios due to movements in interest rates, volatilities, foreign exchange rates, equity prices and commodity prices. Management considers interest rate risk a prominent market risk in terms of its potential impact on earnings. Interest rate risk may occur for any one or more of the following reasons: • Assets and liabilities mature or reprice at different times; • Short-term and long-term market interest rates change by different amounts; or • The expected maturities of various assets or liabilities shorten or lengthen as interest rates change. In addition to the direct impact of interest rate changes on NII and interest-sensitive fees, interest rates can impact earnings through their effect on loan and deposit demand, credit losses, mortgage origination volumes, the value of servicing rights and other sources of the Bancorp’s earnings. Changes in interest rates and other market factors can impact earnings through changes in the value of portfolios, if not appropriately hedged. Stability of the Bancorp’s net income is largely dependent upon the effective management of interest rate risk and to a lesser extent price risk. Management continually reviews the Bancorp’s on- and off-balance sheet composition, earnings flows, and hedging strategies and models interest rate risk and price risk exposures, and possible actions to manage these risks, given numerous possible future interest rate and market factor scenarios. A series of policy limits and key risk indicators are employed to ensure that risks are managed within the Bancorp’s risk tolerance for interest rate risk and price risk. In addition to the traditional forms of interest rate risk discussed in this section, the Bancorp is exposed to interest rate risk associated with the retirement and replacement of LIBOR. For more information on the LIBOR transition, refer to the Overview section of MD&A. The Commercial Banking and Wealth and Asset Management lines of business manage price risk for capital markets sales and trading activities related to their respective businesses. The Consumer and Small Business Banking line of business manages price risk for the origination and sale of conforming residential mortgage loans to government agencies and government-sponsored enterprises. The Bancorp’s Treasury department manages interest rate risk and price risk for all other activities. Independent oversight is provided by ERM, and key risk indicators and Board-approved policy limits are used to ensure risks are managed within the Bancorp’s risk tolerance. The Bancorp’s Market Risk Management Committee, which includes senior management representatives and reports to the Corporate Credit Committee (accountable to the ERMC), provides oversight and monitors price risk for the capital markets sales and trading activities. The Bancorp’s ALCO, which includes senior management representatives and is accountable to the ERMC, provides oversight and monitors interest rate and price risks for Mortgage and Treasury activities. Net Interest Income Sensitivity The Bancorp employs a variety of measurement techniques to identify and manage its interest rate risk, including the use of an NII simulation model to analyze the sensitivity of NII to changes in interest rates. The model is based on contractual and estimated cash flows and repricing characteristics for all of the Bancorp’s assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet exposures and incorporates market-based assumptions regarding the effect of changing interest rates on the prepayment rates of certain assets and attrition rates of certain liabilities. The model also includes senior management’s projections of the future volume and pricing of each of the product lines offered by the Bancorp as well as other pertinent assumptions. The NII simulation model does not represent a forecast of the Bancorp’s net interest income but is a tool utilized to assess the risk of the impact of changing market interest rates across a range of market interest rate environments. As a result, actual results will differ from simulated results for multiple reasons, which may include actual balance sheet composition differences, timing, magnitude and frequency of interest rate changes, deviations from projected customer behavioral assumptions as well as from changes in market conditions and management strategies. As of December 31, 2022, the Bancorp’s interest rate risk exposure is governed by a risk framework that utilizes the change in NII over 12-month and 24-month horizons under parallel ramped increases and decreases in interest rates. Policy limits are utilized for scenarios assuming a 200 bps increase and a 200 bps decrease in interest rates over twelve months. The Bancorp routinely analyzes various potential and extreme scenarios, including parallel ramps and shocks as well as steepening and other non-parallel shifts in rates, to assess where risks to net interest income persist or develop as changes in the balance sheet and market rates evolve. Additionally, the Bancorp routinely evaluates its exposures to changes in the bases between interest rates. In order to recognize the risk of noninterest-bearing demand deposit balance run-off in a rising interest rate environment, the Bancorp’s NII sensitivity modeling assumes that approximately $1 billion of additional demand deposit balances run-off over 24 months for each 100 bps increase in short-term market interest rates. Similarly, the Bancorp’s NII sensitivity modeling incorporates approximately $1 billion of incremental growth in noninterest-bearing deposit balances over 24 months for each 100 bps decrease in short-term market interest rates. The incremental balance run-off and growth are modeled to flow into and out of funding products that reprice in conjunction with short-term market rate changes. 106 Fifth Third Bancorp MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Another important deposit modeling assumption is the amount by which interest-bearing deposit rates will increase or decrease when market interest rates increase or decrease. This deposit repricing sensitivity is known as the beta, and it represents the expected amount by which the Bancorp’s interest-bearing deposit rates will change for a given change in short-term market rates. The Bancorp utilizes dynamic deposit beta models to adjust assumed repricing sensitivity depending on market rate levels. The dynamic beta models were developed utilizing the Bancorp’s performance during prior interest rate cycles. During the year ended December 31, 2022, the Bancorp’s actual deposit repricing has been slower than what was experienced in prior interest rate cycles, and as a result, the Bancorp has outperformed previous NII simulation expectations. Using the dynamic beta models, the Bancorp’s NII sensitivity modeling assumes weighted-average rising-rate interest-bearing deposit betas at the end of the ramped parallel scenarios of 68% and 70%, for a 100 bps and 200 bps increase in rates, respectively. In the event of rate cuts, this approach assumes a weighted-average falling-rate interest-bearing deposit beta at the end of the ramped 200 bps decrease in rates of 60% at December 31, 2022, while also maintaining that deposit rates themselves will not become negative. The modeling assumes no lag between the timing of changes in market rates and the timing of deposit repricing despite such timing lags having occurred in prior rate cycles. In addition, assumed deposit migration from low-beta deposit products to more rate-sensitive deposit products contribute additional beta of 5%-10% across the rising-rate ramps, resulting in an effective beta of approximately 75-80% in our baseline NII sensitivity profile. Given the performance during the year ended December 31, 2022, the Bancorp may continue to exceed the NII simulation expectations. However, the actual performance will be dependent on market conditions, the level of competition for deposits and the magnitude of continued interest rate increases. The Bancorp provides sensitivity analysis in Tables 55 and 56 for key assumptions related to its deposit modeling, including beta and DDA balance performance. The Bancorp continually evaluates the sensitivity of its interest rate risk measures to these important deposit modeling assumptions. The Bancorp also regularly monitors the sensitivity of other important modeling assumptions, such as loan and security prepayments and early withdrawals on fixed-rate customer liabilities. The following table shows the Bancorp’s estimated NII sensitivity profile and ALCO policy limits as of December 31: At December 31, 2022, the Bancorp’s NII sensitivity is liability sensitive in years one and two due to the previously discussed deposit dynamic beta and balance migration assumptions. The Bancorp’s NII simulation projects a decrease in both year one and year two NII under the parallel 200 bps ramp decrease in interest rates. Reductions in the yield of the commercial loan portfolio would be expected to be only partially offset by a decline in the cost of interest-bearing deposits in certain falling-rate scenarios. However, continued re-positioning into securities with less near-term principal cash flows and the execution of additional receive-fixed hedges have added significant protection from declining rates. The changes in the estimated NII sensitivity profile compared to December 31, 2021 were primarily attributable to significant deployment of cash and other short-term investments into long-term fixed-rate securities and higher market interest rates driving higher expected betas. Tables 55 and 56 provide the sensitivity of the Bancorp’s estimated NII profile at December 31, 2022 to changes to certain deposit balance and deposit repricing sensitivity (betas) assumptions. The following table includes the Bancorp’s estimated NII sensitivity profile with an immediate $2 billion decrease and an immediate $2 billion increase in demand deposit balances as of December 31, 2022: 107 Fifth Third Bancorp MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following table includes the Bancorp’s estimated NII sensitivity profile with a 10% increase and a 10% decrease to the corresponding deposit beta assumptions as of December 31, 2022: (a) Applies a +/- 10% multiple on assumed betas and includes deposit migration assumptions based on the changes in rates. Economic Value of Equity Sensitivity The Bancorp also uses EVE as a measurement tool in managing interest rate risk. Whereas the NII sensitivity analysis highlights the impact on forecasted NII on an FTE basis (non-GAAP) over one- and two-year time horizons, EVE is a point-in-time analysis of the economic sensitivity of current positions that incorporates all cash flows over their estimated remaining lives. The EVE of the balance sheet is defined as the discounted present value of all asset and net derivative cash flows less the discounted value of all liability cash flows. Due to this longer horizon, the sensitivity of EVE to changes in the level of interest rates is a measure of longer-term interest rate risk. EVE values only the current balance sheet and does not incorporate the balance growth assumptions used in the NII sensitivity analysis. As with the NII simulation model, assumptions about the timing and variability of existing balance sheet cash flows are critical in the EVE analysis. Particularly important are assumptions driving loan and security prepayments and the expected balance attrition and pricing of indeterminate-lived deposits. The following table shows the Bancorp’s estimated EVE sensitivity profile as of December 31: The EVE sensitivity is negative in a +200 bps rising-rate scenario and positive in a -200 bps falling-rate scenario at December 31, 2022. The changes in the estimated EVE sensitivity profile from December 31, 2021 were primarily related to the significant deployment of cash and other short-term investments into long-term fixed-rate securities, the execution of new forward-starting receive-fixed hedging transactions and increased deposit repricing betas. While an instantaneous shift in spot interest rates followed by forward projections is used in this analysis to provide an estimate of exposure, the Bancorp believes that a gradual shift in interest rates would have a much more modest impact. Since EVE measures the discounted present value of cash flows over the estimated lives of instruments, the change in EVE does not directly correlate to the degree that earnings would be impacted over a shorter time horizon (e.g., the current fiscal year). Further, EVE does not account for factors such as future balance sheet growth, changes in product mix, changes in yield curve relationships and changing product spreads that could mitigate or exacerbate the impact of changes in interest rates. The NII simulations and EVE analyses do not necessarily include certain actions that management may undertake to manage risk in response to actual changes in interest rates. The Bancorp regularly evaluates its exposures to a static balance sheet forecast, LIBOR, SOFR, Prime Rate and other basis risks, yield curve twist risks and embedded options risks. In addition, the impacts on NII on an FTE basis and EVE of extreme changes in interest rates are modeled, wherein the Bancorp employs the use of yield curve shocks and environment-specific scenarios. Use of Derivatives to Manage Interest Rate Risk An integral component of the Bancorp’s interest rate risk management strategy is its use of derivative instruments to minimize significant fluctuations in earnings caused by changes in market interest rates. Examples of derivative instruments that the Bancorp may use as part of its interest rate risk management strategy include interest rate swaps, interest rate floors, interest rate caps, forward contracts, forward starting interest rate swaps, options, swaptions and TBA securities. Tables 58 and 59 show all swap and floor positions that are utilized for purposes of managing the Bancorp’s exposures to the variability of interest rates. These positions are used to convert the contractual interest rate index of agreed-upon amounts of assets and liabilities (i.e., notional amounts) to another interest rate index, to hedge the exposure to changes in fair value of a recognized asset attributable to changes in 108 Fifth Third Bancorp MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS the benchmark interest rate or to hedge forecasted transactions for the variability in cash flows attributable to the contractually specified interest rate. The volume, maturity and mix of portfolio swaps change frequently as the Bancorp adjusts its broader interest rate risk management objectives and the balance sheet positions to be hedged. For further information, refer to Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The following tables present additional information about the interest rate swaps and floors used in Fifth Third’s asset and liability management activities: (a) Forward starting swaps will become effective on various dates between February 2023 and February 2025. Additionally, as part of its overall risk management strategy relative to its residential mortgage banking activities, the Bancorp enters into forward contracts accounted for as free-standing derivatives to economically hedge IRLCs that are also considered free-standing derivatives. The Bancorp economically hedges its exposure to residential mortgage loans held for sale through the use of forward contracts and mortgage options as well. See the Residential Mortgage Servicing Rights and Price Risk section for the discussion of the use of derivatives to economically hedge this exposure. The Bancorp also enters into derivative contracts with major financial institutions to economically hedge market risks assumed in interest rate derivative contracts with commercial customers. Generally, these contracts have similar terms in order to protect the Bancorp from market volatility. Credit risk arises from the possible inability of the counterparties to meet the terms of their contracts, which the Bancorp minimizes through collateral arrangements, approvals, limits and monitoring procedures. The Bancorp has risk limits and internal controls in place to help ensure excessive risk is not being taken in providing this service to customers. These controls include an independent determination of interest rate volatility and potential future exposure on these contracts and counterparty credit approvals performed by independent risk management. For further information, including the notional amount and fair values of these derivatives, refer to Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Portfolio Loans and Leases and Interest Rate Risk Although the Bancorp’s portfolio loans and leases contain both fixed and floating/adjustable-rate products, the rates of interest earned by the Bancorp on the outstanding balances are generally established for a period of time. The interest rate sensitivity of loans and leases is directly related to the length of time the rate earned is established. 109 Fifth Third Bancorp MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following table summarizes the carrying value of the Bancorp’s portfolio loans and leases, excluding interest receivable, disaggregated by scheduled principal repayment, as of December 31, 2022: The following table displays a summary of cash flows, excluding interest receivable, occurring after one year for both fixed and floating/adjustable-rate loans and leases as of December 31, 2022: Residential Mortgage Servicing Rights and Price Risk The fair value of the residential MSR portfolio was $1.7 billion and $1.1 billion at December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. The value of servicing rights can fluctuate sharply depending on changes in interest rates and other factors. Generally, as interest rates decline and loans are prepaid to take advantage of refinancing, the total value of existing servicing rights declines because no further servicing fees are collected on repaid loans. For further information on the significant drivers and components of the valuation adjustments on MSRs, refer to the Noninterest Income subsection of the Statements of Income Analysis section of MD&A. The Bancorp maintains a non-qualifying hedging strategy relative to its mortgage banking activity in order to manage a portion of the risk associated with changes in the value of its MSR portfolio as a result of changing interest rates. The Bancorp may adjust its hedging strategy to reflect its assessment of the composition of its MSR portfolio, the cost of hedging and the anticipated effectiveness of the hedges given the economic environment. Refer to Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion on servicing rights and the instruments used to hedge price risk on MSRs. Foreign Currency Risk The Bancorp may enter into foreign exchange derivative contracts to economically hedge certain foreign denominated loans. The derivatives are classified as free-standing instruments with the revaluation gain or loss being recorded in other noninterest income in the Consolidated Statements of Income. The balance of the Bancorp’s foreign denominated loans at December 31, 2022 and 2021 was $1.0 billion and $995 million, respectively. The Bancorp also enters into foreign exchange contracts for the benefit of commercial customers to hedge their exposure to foreign currency fluctuations. Similar to the hedging of price risk from interest rate derivative contracts entered into with commercial customers, the Bancorp also enters into foreign exchange contracts with major financial institutions to economically hedge a substantial portion of the exposure from client driven foreign exchange activity. The Bancorp has risk limits and internal controls in place to help ensure excessive risk is not being taken in providing this service to customers. These controls include an independent determination of currency volatility and potential future exposure on these contracts, counterparty credit approvals and country limits performed by independent risk management. 110 Fifth Third Bancorp MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Commodity Risk The Bancorp also enters into commodity contracts for the benefit of commercial customers to hedge their exposure to commodity price fluctuations. Similar to the hedging of foreign exchange and price risk from interest rate derivative contracts, the Bancorp also enters into commodity contracts with major financial institutions to economically hedge a substantial portion of the exposure from client driven commodity activity. The Bancorp may also offset this risk with exchange-traded commodity contracts. The Bancorp has risk limits and internal controls in place to help ensure excessive risk is not taken in providing this service to customers. These controls include an independent determination of commodity volatility and potential future exposure on these contracts and counterparty credit approvals performed by independent risk management. 111 Fifth Third Bancorp MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS LIQUIDITY RISK MANAGEMENT The goal of liquidity management is to provide adequate funds to meet changes in loan and lease demand, unexpected levels of deposit withdrawals and other contractual obligations. Mitigating liquidity risk is accomplished by maintaining liquid assets in the form of cash and investment securities, maintaining sufficient unused borrowing capacity in the debt markets and delivering consistent growth in core deposits. A summary of certain obligations and commitments to make future payments under contracts is included in Note 18 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The Bancorp’s Treasury department manages funding and liquidity based on point-in-time metrics as well as forward-looking projections, which incorporate different sources and uses of funds under base and stress scenarios. Liquidity risk is monitored and managed by the Treasury department with independent oversight provided by ERM, and a series of Policy Limits and Key Risk Indicators are established to ensure risks are managed within the Bancorp’s risk tolerance. The Bancorp maintains a contingency funding plan that provides for liquidity stress testing, which assesses the liquidity needs under varying market conditions, time horizons, asset growth rates and other events. The contingency plan provides for ongoing monitoring of unused borrowing capacity and available sources of contingent liquidity to prepare for unexpected liquidity needs and to cover unanticipated events that could affect liquidity. The contingency plan also outlines the Bancorp’s response to various levels of liquidity stress and actions that should be taken during various scenarios. Liquidity risk is monitored and managed for both Fifth Third Bancorp and its subsidiaries. The Bancorp receives substantially all of its liquidity from dividends from its subsidiaries, primarily Fifth Third Bank, National Association. Subsidiary dividends are supplemented with term debt to enable the Bancorp to maintain sufficient liquidity to meet its cash obligations, including debt service and scheduled maturities, common and preferred dividends, unfunded commitments to subsidiaries and other planned capital actions in the form of share repurchases. Liquidity resources are more limited at the Bancorp, making its liquidity position more susceptible to market disruptions. Bancorp liquidity is assessed using a cash coverage horizon, ensuring the entity maintains sufficient liquidity to withstand a period of sustained market disruption while meeting its anticipated obligations over an extended stressed horizon. The Bancorp’s ALCO, which includes senior management representatives and is accountable to the ERMC, monitors and manages liquidity and funding risk within Board-approved policy limits. In addition to the risk management activities of ALCO, the Bancorp has a liquidity risk management function as part of ERM that provides independent oversight of liquidity risk management. Sources of Funds The Bancorp’s primary sources of funds relate to cash flows from loan and lease repayments, payments from securities related to sales and maturities, the sale or securitization of loans and leases and funds generated by core deposits, in addition to the use of public and private debt offerings. Table 60 of the Interest Rate and Price Risk Management subsection of the Risk Management section of MD&A presents information about the timing of cash flows from loan and lease repayments. Of the $51.5 billion of securities in the Bancorp’s available-for-sale debt and other securities portfolio at December 31, 2022, $4.6 billion in p rincipal and interest is expected to be received in the next 12 months and an additional $4.9 billion is expected to be received in the next 13 to 24 months. For further information on the Bancorp’s securities portfolio, refer to the Investment Securities subsection of the Balance Sheet Analysis section of MD&A. Asset-driven liquidity is provided by the Bancorp’s ability to sell or securitize loans and leases. In order to reduce the exposure to interest rate fluctuations and to manage liquidity, the Bancorp has developed securitization and sale procedures for several types of interest-sensitive assets. A majority of the long-term, fixed-rate single-family residential mortgage loans underwritten according to FHLMC or FNMA guidelines are sold for cash upon origination. Additional assets such as certain other residential mortgage loans, certain commercial loans and leases, home equity loans, automobile loans and other consumer loans are also capable of being securitized or sold. The Bancorp sold loans and leases totaling $13.5 billion during the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to $17.5 billion during the year ended December 31, 2021. For further information, refer to Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Core deposits have historically provided the Bancorp with a sizeable source of relatively stable and low-cost funds. The Bancorp’s average core deposits and average shareholders’ equity funded 87 % and 90% of its average total assets for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. In addition to core deposit funding, the Bancorp also accesses a variety of other short-term and long-term funding sources, which include the use of the FHLB system. Management does not rely on any one source of liquidity and manages availability in response to changing balance sheet needs. In June of 2022, the Board of Directors authorized $5.0 billion of debt or other securities for issuance, of which $3.0 billion of debt or other securities were available for issuance a s of December 31, 2022 . The Bancorp is authorized to file any necessary registration statements with the SEC to permit ready access to the public securities markets; however, access to these markets may depend on market conditions. The Bancorp issued and sold fixed-rate/floating-rate senior notes of $1 billion in April of 2022, $1 billion in July of 2022 and $1 billion in October of 2022 as further discussed in Note 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. As of December 31, 2022, the Bank’s global bank note program had a borrowing capacity of $25.0 billion , of which $20.3 billion was available for issuance. The Bank issued and sold fixed-rate/floating-rate senior notes of $1 billion in October of 2022 as further discussed in 112 Fifth Third Bancorp MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Note 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Additionally, at December 31, 2022, the Bank had approximately $51.0 billion of borrowing capacity available through secured borrowing sources, including the FRB and FHLB. Current Liquidity Position The Bancorp maintains a strong liquidity profile driven by strong core deposit funding and over $100 billion in current available liquidity. The Bancorp is managing liquidity prudently in the current environment and maintains a liquidity profile focused on core deposit and stable long-term funding sources, while supplementing with a variety of secured and unsecured wholesale funding sources across the maturity spectrum, which allows for the effective management of concentration and rollover risk. A significant portion of the Bancorp’s excess cash and other short-term investments have been invested in long-term fixed-rate securities since the start of 2022. The Bancorp’s investment portfolio remains highly concentrated in liquid and readily marketable instruments and is a significant source of secured borrowing capacity. As of December 31, 2022, the Bancorp (parent company) has sufficient liquidity to meet contractual obligations and all preferred and common dividends without accessing the capital markets or receiving upstream dividends from the Bank subsidiary for 24 months. The Bancorp and its subsidiaries, on a consolidated basis, have certain obligations and commitments to make future payments under various types of contracts. In addition to commitments to extend credit and letters of credit (which are further discussed in Note 18 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements), these include deposits, lease obligations, partnership investment commitments, derivative contracts, borrowings, and pension benefit payments. Refer to the Deposits subsection of the Balance Sheet Analysis section of MD&A and Notes 9, 12, 14, 16, 17 and 22 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on these contractual obligations. Credit Ratings The cost and availability of financing to the Bancorp and Bank are impacted by its credit ratings. A downgrade to the Bancorp’s or Bank’s credit ratings could affect its ability to access the credit markets and increase its borrowing costs, thereby adversely impacting the Bancorp’s or Bank’s financial condition and liquidity. Key factors in maintaining high credit ratings include a stable and diverse earnings stream, strong credit quality, strong capital ratios and diverse funding sources, in addition to disciplined liquidity monitoring procedures. The Bancorp’s and Bank’s credit ratings are summarized in Table 62. The ratings reflect the ratings agency’s view on the Bancorp’s and Bank’s capacity to meet financial commitments.* *As an investor, you should be aware that a security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities, that it may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating organization and that each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. Additional information on the credit rating ranking within the overall classification system is located on the website of each credit rating agency. 113 Fifth Third Bancorp MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS OPERATIONAL RISK MANAGEMENT Operational risk is the risk to current or projected financial condition and resilience arising from inadequate or failed internal processes or systems, human errors or misconduct or adverse external events that are neither market- nor credit-related. Operational risk is inherent in the Bancorp’s activities and can manifest itself in various ways, including fraudulent acts, business interruptions, inappropriate behavior of employees, unintentional failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, poor design or delivery of products and services, cyber-security or physical security incidents and privacy breaches or failure of third parties to perform in accordance with their arrangements. These events could result in financial losses, litigation and regulatory fines, as well as other damage to the Bancorp. The Bancorp’s risk management goal is to keep operational risk at appropriate levels consistent with the Bancorp’s risk appetite, financial strength, the characteristics of its businesses, the markets in which it operates and the competitive and regulatory environment to which it is subject. To control, monitor and govern operational risk, the Bancorp maintains an overall Enterprise Risk Management Framework which comprises governance oversight, risk assessment, capital measurement, monitoring and reporting as well as a formal three lines of defense approach. ERM is responsible for prescribing the framework to the lines of business and corporate functions and providing independent oversight of its implementation (second line of defense). Business Controls groups are in place in each of the lines of business to ensure consistent implementation and execution of managing day-to-day operational risk (first line of defense). The Bancorp’s enterprise risk management framework consists of five integrated components, including identifying, assessing, managing, monitoring and independent governance reporting of risk. The corporate Operational Risk Management function within Enterprise Risk is responsible for developing and overseeing the implementation of the Bancorp’s approach to managing operational risk. This includes providing governance, awareness and training, tools, guidance and oversight to support implementation of key risk programs and systems as they relate to operational risk management. These include programs, such as risk and control self-assessments, product delivery risk assessments, scenario analysis, new product/initiative risk reviews, key risk indicators, Third-Party Risk Management, cyber-security risk management, review of operational losses and monitoring of significant organizational or process changes. The function is also responsible for developing reports that support the proactive management of operational risk across the enterprise. The lines of business and corporate functions are responsible for managing the operational risks associated with their areas in accordance with the enterprise risk management framework. The framework is intended to enable the Bancorp to function with a sound and well-controlled operational environment. These processes support the Bancorp’s goals to minimize future operational losses and strengthen the Bancorp’s performance by maintaining sufficient capital to absorb operational losses that are incurred. The Bancorp also maintains a robust information security program to support the management of cyber-security risk within the organization with a focus on prevention, detection and recovery processes. Fifth Third utilizes a wide array of techniques to secure its operations and proprietary information such as Board-approved policies and programs, network monitoring and testing, access controls and dedicated security personnel. Fifth Third has adopted the National Institute of Standards and Technology Cybersecurity Framework for the management and deployment of cyber-security controls and is an active participant in the financial sector information sharing organization structure, known as the Financial Services Information Sharing and Analysis Center. To ensure resiliency of key Bancorp functions, Fifth Third also employs redundancy protocols that include a robust business continuity function that works to mitigate any potential impacts to Fifth Third customers and its systems. Fifth Third also focuses on the reporting and escalation of operational control issues to senior management and the Board of Directors. The Operational Risk Committee is the key committee that oversees and supports Fifth Third in the management of operational risk across the enterprise. The Information Security Governance Committee and Model Risk Committee report to the Operational Risk Committee and are responsible for governance of information security and model risks. The Operational Risk Committee reports to the ERMC, which reports to the RCC of the Board of Directors of Fifth Third Bancorp and Fifth Third Bank, National Association. Increased external threats have elevated fraud and cyber-security risks. The Bancorp’s strategic initiatives also have the potential to increase operational risk as changes to process and technology are implemented. Additionally, to the extent utilized in executing these changes, other factors such as increased reliance on third parties and increased use of emerging and cloud-based technologies may also introduce additional operational risk considerations. These risks continue to be carefully managed and monitored to ensure effective controls are in place, with appropriate oversight and governance by the second line of defense. The Bancorp is aware of and actively monitoring climate-related risks. Climate-related risks could impact the Bancorp in the form of physical risks due to acute or chronic weather related events that could disrupt the operations of the Bancorp, or could impair the ability of clients to meet financial obligations. The Bancorp also faces transition risk resulting from economic transition towards a lower-carbon future which may negatively impact some clients or present credit, strategic or reputational risks to the Bancorp. Climate risk is a priority for management and accordingly the Board oversees both the RCC and the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee. The RCC is responsible for overseeing the development and implementation of Fifth Third’s Enterprise Risk Management Framework including climate risks. In the course of business, the Bancorp’s Environmental Risk Group works with partners to manage or mitigate environmental risks including climate-related risks. As part of its larger environmental, social and governance responsibilities the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee is responsible for overseeing climate strategy and climate-related issues in the context of stakeholder concerns. 114 Fifth Third Bancorp MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS LEGAL AND REGULATORY COMPLIANCE RISK MANAGEMENT Legal and regulatory compliance risk is the risk of legal or regulatory sanctions, financial loss or damage to reputation as a result of noncompliance with (i) applicable laws, regulations, rules and other regulatory requirements (including but not limited to the risk of consumers experiencing economic loss or other legal harm as a result of noncompliance with consumer protection laws, regulations and requirements); (ii) internal policies and procedures, standards of best practice or codes of conduct; and (iii) principles of integrity and fair dealing applicable to Fifth Third’s activities and functions. Legal risks include the risk of actions against the institution that result in unenforceable contracts, lawsuits, legal sanctions, or adverse judgments, which disrupt or otherwise negatively affect the operations or condition of the institution. Failure to effectively manage such risks can elevate the risk level or manifest itself as other types of key risks, including reputational or operational risk. Fifth Third focuses on managing legal and regulatory compliance risk in accordance with the Bancorp’s integrated enterprise risk management framework, which ensures consistent processes for identifying, assessing, managing, monitoring and reporting risks. The Bancorp’s risk management goal is to keep compliance risk at appropriate levels, consistent with the Bancorp’s risk appetite. To mitigate such risks, Compliance Risk Management provides independent oversight to foster consistency and sufficiency in the execution of the program, and ensures that lines of business and support functions are adequately identifying, assessing and monitoring legal and regulatory compliance risks and adopting proper mitigation strategies. Moreover, such strategies are modified from time to time to respond to new or emerging risks in the environment. Compliance Risk Management and the Legal Division provide guidance to the lines of business and enterprise functions, which are ultimately responsible for managing such risks associated with their areas. The Chief Compliance Officer is responsible for formulating and directing the strategy, development, implementation, communication and maintenance of the Compliance Risk Management program, which implements key compliance processes, including but not limited to, executive- and board-level governance and reporting routines, compliance-related policies, risk assessments, key risk indicators, issues tracking, regulatory change management and regulatory compliance testing and monitoring. As part of Compliance Risk Management, the Financial Crimes Division conducts and oversees anti-money laundering and economic sanctions processes. Compliance Risk Management partners with the Community and Economic Development team to oversee the Bancorp’s compliance with the Community Reinvestment Act. Fifth Third also reports and escalates legal and regulatory compliance issues to senior management and the Board of Directors. The Management Compliance Committee, which is chaired by the Chief Compliance Officer, is the key committee that oversees and supports Fifth Third in the management of compliance risk across the enterprise. The Management Compliance Committee oversees Bancorp-wide compliance issues, industry best practices, legislative developments, regulatory concerns and other leading indicators of legal and regulatory compliance risk. The Management Compliance Committee reports to the ERMC, which reports to the RCC of the Board of Directors of Fifth Third Bancorp and Fifth Third Bank, National Association. 115 Fifth Third Bancorp MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS CAPITAL MANAGEMENT Management regularly reviews the Bancorp’s capital levels to help ensure it is appropriately positioned under various operating environments. The Bancorp has established a Capital Committee which is responsible for making capital plan recommendations to management. These recommendations are reviewed by the ERMC and the annual capital plan is approved by the Board of Directors. The Capital Committee is responsible for execution and oversight of the capital actions of the capital plan. Regulatory Capital Ratios The Basel III Final Rule sets minimum regulatory capital ratios as well as defines the measure of “well-capitalized” for insured depository institutions. For additional information regarding the prescribed capital ratios, refer to Note 29 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The Bancorp is subject to the stress capital buffer requirement and must maintain capital ratios above its buffered minimum (regulatory minimum plus stress capital buffer) in order to avoid certain limitations on capital distributions and discretionary bonuses to executive officers. The FRB uses the supervisory stress test to determine the Bancorp’s stress capital buffer, subject to a floor of 2.5%. The Bancorp’s stress capital buffer requirement has been 2.5% since the introduction of this framework and was most recently affirmed as part of the FRB’s 2022 supervisory stress test with an effective date of October 1, 2022. The Bancorp’s capital ratios have exceeded the stress capital buffer requirement for all periods presented. The Bancorp adopted ASU 2016-13 on January 1, 2020 and elected the five-year transition phase-in option for the impact of CECL on regulatory capital with its regulatory filings as of March 31, 2020. The Bancorp’s modified CECL transition amount became subject to the phase-out provisions of the final rule on January 1, 2022, and will be fully phased-out by January 1, 2025. The impact of the modified CECL transition amount on the Bancorp’s regulatory capital at December 31, 2022 was an increase in capital of approximately $373 million. On a fully phased-in basis, the Bancorp’s CET1 ratio would be reduced by 21 bps as of December 31, 2022. The following table summarizes the Bancorp’s capital ratios as of December 31: (a) These are non-GAAP measures. For further information, refer to the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section of MD&A. (b) Excludes AOCI. (c) Regulatory capital ratios as of December 31, 2022 are calculated pursuant to the five-year transition provision option to phase in the effects of CECL on regulatory capital. Capital Planning In 2011, the FRB adopted the capital plan rule, which requires BHCs with consolidated assets of $50 billion or more to submit annual capital plans to the FRB for review. Under the rule, these capital plans must include detailed descriptions of the following: the BHC’s internal processes for assessing capital adequacy; the policies governing capital actions such as common stock issuances, dividends and share repurchases; and all planned capital actions over a nine-quarter planning horizon. Furthermore, each BHC must report to the FRB the results of stress tests conducted by the BHC under a number of scenarios that assess the sources and uses of capital under baseline and stressed economic conditions. Under the Enhanced Prudential Standards tailoring rules, the Bancorp is subject to Category IV standards, under which the Bancorp is no longer required to file semi-annual, company-run stress tests with the FRB and publicly disclose the results. However, the Bancorp is required to develop and maintain a capital plan approved by the Board of Directors on an annual basis. As an institution subject to Category IV standards, the Bancorp is subject to the FRB’s supervisory stress tests every two years, the Board capital plan rule and certain FR Y-14 reporting requirements. The supervisory stress tests are forward-looking quantitative evaluations of the impact of stressful economic and financial market conditions on the Bancorp’s capital. The Bancorp became subject to Category IV standards on December 31, 2019, and the requirements outlined above apply to the stress test cycle that started on January 1, 2020. The Bancorp was subject to the 2022 supervisory 116 Fifth Third Bancorp MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS stress test conducted by the FRB and submitted the Board-approved capital plan and information contained in Schedule C - Regulatory Capital Instruments as required. Dividend Policy and Stock Repurchase Program The Bancorp’s common stock dividend policy and stock repurchase program reflect its earnings outlook, desired payout ratios, the need to maintain adequate capital levels, the ability of its subsidiaries to pay dividends and the need to comply with safe and sound banking practices as well as meet regulatory requirements and expectations. The Bancorp declared dividends per common share of $1.26 and $1.14 during the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. In June of 2019, the Board of Directors authorized the Bancorp to repurchase up to 100 million common shares in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions and to utilize any derivative or similar instrument to effect share repurchase transactions. Under this authorization, t he Bancorp entered into and settled one accelerated share repurchase transaction during the year ended December 31, 2022. Refer to Note 24 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on the accelerated share repurchase activity. The following table summarizes shares authorized for repurchase as part of publicly announced plans or programs: (a) Excludes 1,891,160 and 2,793,463 shares repurchased during the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, in connection with various employee compensation plans. These purchases are not included in the calculation for average price paid per share and do not count against the maximum number of shares that may yet be repurchased under the Board of Directors’ authorization.