********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, Section 21E of the Exchange Act and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Also, documents that we “incorporate by reference” into this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including documents that we subsequently file with the SEC will contain forward-looking statements. When we refer to forward-looking statements or information, sometimes we use words such as “may,” “will,” “could,” “should,” “plans,” “intends,” “expects,” “believes,” “estimates,” “anticipates” and “continues.” In particular, the below risk factors describe forward-looking information. The risk factors describe risks that may 8 affect these statements but are not all-inclusive, particularly with respect to possible future events. Many things can happen that can cause actual results to be different from those we describe. These factors include, but are not limited to the following: Risk Factors Related to our Real Estate Investments and Operations Revenue from our properties may be reduced or limited if the retail operations of our tenants are not successful. Revenue from our properties depends primarily on the ability of our tenants to pay the full amount of rent and other charges due under their leases on a timely basis. Some of our leases provide for the payment, in addition to base rent, of additional rent above the base amount according to a specified percentage of the gross sales generated by the tenants and generally provide for reimbursement of real estate taxes and expenses of operating the property. Economic, legal, and/or competitive conditions, as well as COVID-19, may impact the success of our tenants’ retail operations and therefore the amount of rent and expense reimbursements we receive from our tenants. Any reduction in our tenants' abilities to pay base rent, percentage rent, or other charges on a timely basis, including the closing of stores prior to the end of the lease term or the filing by any of our tenants for bankruptcy protection, will adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In the event of default by a tenant, we may experience delays and unexpected costs in enforcing our rights as landlord under lease terms, which may also adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our net income depends on the success and continued presence of our “anchor” tenants. Our net income could be adversely affected in the event of a downturn in the business, or the bankruptcy or insolvency, of any anchor store or anchor tenant. Anchor tenants generally occupy large amounts of square footage, pay a significant portion of the total rents at a property and contribute to the success of other tenants by drawing significant numbers of customers to a property. The closing of one or more anchor stores at a property could adversely affect that property and result in lease terminations by, or reductions in rent from, other tenants whose leases may permit termination or rent reduction in those circumstances or whose own operations may suffer as a result. Over the past several years, we have seen higher levels of anchor turnover and closings in some markets, which has caused an oversupply of larger retail spaces. Therefore, tenant demand for certain of our anchor spaces may decrease and as a result, we may see an increase in vacancy and/or a decrease in rents for those spaces that could have a negative impact to our net income. As of December 31, 2021, our anchor tenant space is 96.8% leased and 94.4% occupied. A shift in retail shopping from brick and mortar stores to online shopping may have an adverse impact on our cash flow, financial condition and results of operations. Many retailers operating brick and mortar stores have made online sales a vital piece of their business. The shift to online shopping may cause declines in brick and mortar sales generated by certain of our tenants and may cause certain of our tenants to reduce the size or number of their retail locations in the future. This risk is partially mitigated by our strategy of maintaining a diverse portfolio of retail properties. The trend of retailers utilizing brick and mortar locations for ‘showroom’ and on-line sales distribution purposes (particularly at shopping centers in densely populated areas like ours) may further mitigate this risk. However, there can be no assurance that our shopping centers will not be further impacted by the shift to online shopping. As a result, our cash flow, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. We have properties that are geographically concentrated, and adverse economic or real estate market declines in these areas could have a material adverse effect on us. As of December 31, 2021, our tenants operated in 12 states and the District of Columbia. Any adverse situation that disproportionately affects the the markets where our properties are concentrated may have a magnified adverse effect on our portfolio. Refer to “Properties” (Item 2 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K) for additional discussion of the geographic concentration. Real estate markets are subject to economic downturns, as they have been in the past, and we cannot predict how economic conditions will impact this market in both the short and long term. Declines in the economy or a decline in the real estate market in these states could hurt our financial performance and the value of our properties. Factors that may negatively affect economic conditions in these states include: • business layoffs or downsizing; • industry slowdowns; • increased business restrictions due to health crises; • relocations of businesses; • changing demographics; • increased telecommuting and use of alternative work places; • infrastructure quality; 9 • any oversupply of, or reduced demand for, real estate; • concessions or reduced rental rates under new leases for properties where tenants defaulted; and • increased operating costs including insurance premiums and real estate taxes. We may be unable to collect balances due from tenants that file for bankruptcy protection. If a tenant or lease guarantor files for bankruptcy, we may not be able to collect all pre-petition amounts owed by that party. In addition, a tenant that files for bankruptcy protection may terminate our lease in which event we would have a general unsecured claim that would likely be for less than the full amount owed to us for the remainder of the lease term, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may experience difficulty or delay in renewing leases or re-leasing space. We derive most of our revenue directly or indirectly from rent received from our tenants. We are subject to the risks that, upon expiration or termination of leases, whether by their terms, as a result of a tenant bankruptcy, general economic conditions or otherwise, leases for space in our properties may not be renewed, space may not be re-leased, or the terms of renewal or re-lease, including the cost of required renovations or concessions to tenants, may be less favorable than current lease terms and may include decreases in rental rates. As a result, our net income could be reduced. Our development activities have inherent risks. The ground-up development of improvements on real property, as opposed to the renovation and redevelopment of existing improvements, presents substantial risks. We generally do not look to acquire raw land for future development; however, we do intend to complete the development and construction of future phases of projects we already own. We may undertake development of these and other projects on our own or bring in third parties if it is justifiable on a risk-adjusted return basis. We may also choose to delay completion of a project if market conditions do not allow an appropriate return. If conditions arise and we are not able or decide not to complete a project or if the expected cash flows of our project do not exceed the book value, an impairment of the project may be required. If additional phases of any of our existing projects or if any new projects are not successful, it may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition to the risks associated with real estate investment in general, as described elsewhere and the specific risks above, the risks associated with our remaining development activities include: • contractor changes may delay the completion of development projects and increase overall costs; • significant time lag between commencement and stabilization subjects us to greater risks due to fluctuations in the general economy; • delivery of residential product into uncertain residential environments may result in lower rents or longer time periods to reach economic stabilization; • substantial amount of our investment is related to infrastructure and the overall value of the project may be negatively impacted if we do not complete subsequent phases; • failure or inability to obtain construction or permanent financing on favorable terms; • expenditure of money and time on projects that may never be completed; • difficulty securing key anchor or other tenants may impact occupancy rates and projected revenue; • inability to achieve projected rental rates or anticipated pace of lease-up; • higher than estimated construction or operating costs, including labor and material costs; and • possible delay in completion of a project because of a number of factors, including COVID-19, supply chain disruptions and shortages, weather, labor disruptions, construction delays or delays in receipt of zoning or other regulatory approvals, acts of terror or other acts of violence, or acts of God (such as fires, earthquakes or floods). Redevelopments and acquisitions may fail to perform as expected. Our investment strategy includes the redevelopment and acquisition of high quality, retail focused properties in densely populated areas with high average household incomes and significant barriers to adding competitive retail supply. The redevelopment and acquisition of properties entail risks that include the following, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to meet our obligations: • our estimate of the costs to improve, reposition or redevelop a property may prove to be too low, or the time we estimate to complete the improvement, repositioning or redevelopment may be too short. As a result, the property may fail to achieve the returns we have projected, either temporarily or for a longer period; • we may not be able to identify suitable properties to acquire or may be unable to complete the acquisition of the properties we identify; • we may not be able to integrate an acquisition into our existing operations successfully; 10 • properties we redevelop or acquire may fail to achieve the occupancy or rental rates we project, within the time frames we project, at the time we make the decision to invest, which may result in the properties’ failure to achieve the returns we projected; • our pre-acquisition evaluation of the physical condition of each new investment may not detect certain defects or identify necessary repairs until after the property is acquired, which could significantly increase our total acquisition costs or decrease cash flow from the property; and • our investigation of a property or building prior to our acquisition, and any representations we may receive from the seller of such building or property, may fail to reveal various liabilities, which could reduce the cash flow from the property or increase our acquisition cost. Our performance and value are subject to general risks associated with the real estate industry. Our economic performance and the value of our real estate assets, and consequently, the value of our investments, are subject to the risk that if our properties do not generate revenues sufficient to meet our operating expenses, including debt service and capital expenditures, our cash flow and ability to pay distributions to our shareholders will be adversely affected. As a real estate company, we are susceptible to the following real estate industry risks: • economic downturns in general, or in the areas where our properties are located; • adverse changes in local real estate market conditions, such as an oversupply or reduction in demand; • changes in tenant preferences that reduce the attractiveness of our properties to tenants; • zoning or regulatory restrictions; • decreases in market rental rates; • weather conditions that may increase or decrease energy costs and other weather-related expenses; • costs associated with the need to periodically repair, renovate and re-lease space; and • increases in the cost of adequate maintenance, insurance and other operating costs, including real estate taxes, associated with one or more properties, which may occur even when circumstances such as market factors and competition cause a reduction in revenues from one or more properties, although real estate taxes typically do not increase upon a reduction in such revenues. Each of these risks could result in decreases in market rental rates and increases in vacancy rates, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation. Many real estate costs are fixed, even if income from our properties decreases. Our financial results depend primarily on leasing space in our properties to tenants on terms favorable to us. Costs associated with real estate investment, such as real estate taxes, insurance and maintenance costs, generally are not reduced even when a property is not fully occupied, rental rates decrease, or other circumstances cause a reduction in income from the property. As a result, cash flow from the operations of our properties may be reduced if a tenant does not pay its rent or we are unable to rent our properties on favorable terms. Under those circumstances, we might not be able to enforce our rights as landlord without delays and may incur substantial legal costs. Additionally, new properties that we may acquire or redevelop may not produce any significant revenue immediately, and the cash flow from existing operations may be insufficient to pay the operating expenses and debt service associated with such new properties until they are fully occupied. Competition may limit our ability to purchase new properties and generate sufficient income from tenants. Numerous commercial developers and real estate companies compete with us in seeking tenants for our existing properties and properties for acquisition. This competition may: • reduce properties available for acquisition; • increase the cost of properties available for acquisition; • reduce rents payable to us; • interfere with our ability to attract and retain tenants; • lead to increased vacancy rates at our properties; and • adversely affect our ability to minimize expenses of operation. Retailers at our properties also face increasing competition from online retailers, outlet stores, discount shopping clubs and other forms of sales and marketing of goods, such as direct mail. This competition could contribute to lease defaults and insolvency of tenants. If we are unable to continue to attract appropriate retail tenants to our properties, or to purchase new properties in our geographic markets, it could materially affect our ability to generate net income, service our debt and make distributions to our shareholders. 11 We may be unable to sell properties when appropriate because real estate investments are illiquid. Real estate investments generally cannot be sold quickly. In addition, there are some limitations under federal income tax laws applicable to real estate and to REITs in particular that may limit our ability to sell our assets. We may not be able to alter our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions including being unable to sell a property at a return we believe is appropriate due to the economic environment. Our inability to respond quickly to adverse changes in the performance of our investments could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our obligations and make distributions to our shareholders. We may have limited flexibility in dealing with our jointly owned investments. Our organizational documents do not limit the amount of funds that we may invest in properties and assets owned jointly with other persons or entities. As of December 31, 2021, we held 19 predominantly retail real estate projects jointly with other persons in addition to properties owned in a “downREIT” structure. Additionally, as of December 31, 2021, we owned an interest in the hotel component of Assembly Row. We may make additional joint investments in the future. Our existing and future joint investments may subject us to special risks, including the possibility that our partners or co-investors might become bankrupt, that those partners or co-investors might have economic or other business interests or goals which are unlike or incompatible with our business interests or goals, that those partners or co-investors might be in a position to take action contrary to our suggestions or instructions, or in opposition to our policies or objectives, and that disputes may develop with our joint venture partners over decisions affecting the property or the joint venture, which may result in litigation or arbitration or some other form of dispute resolution. Although as of December 31, 2021, we held the controlling interests in all of our existing co-investments (except the hotel investment discussed above and the investment in the La Alameda shopping center acquired in 2017), we generally must obtain the consent of the co-investor or meet defined criteria to sell or to finance these properties. Joint ownership gives a third party the opportunity to influence the return we can achieve on some of our investments and may adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. We may also be liable for the actions of our co-investors. Our insurance coverage on our properties may be inadequate. We currently carry comprehensive insurance on all of our properties, including insurance for liability, fire, flood, earthquake, environmental matters, rental loss and acts of terrorism. All of these policies contain coverage limitations. We believe these coverages are of the types and amounts customarily obtained for or by an owner of similar types of real property assets located in the areas where our properties are located. We intend to obtain similar insurance coverage on subsequently acquired properties. The availability of insurance coverage may decrease and the prices for insurance may increase as a consequence of significant losses incurred by the insurance industry and other factors outside our control. As a result, we may be unable to renew or duplicate our current insurance coverage in adequate amounts or at reasonable prices. In addition, insurance companies may no longer offer coverage against certain types of losses, such as losses due to terrorist acts, pandemics, and toxic mold, or, if offered, the expense of obtaining these types of insurance may not be justified. We therefore may cease to have insurance coverage against certain types of losses and/or there may be decreases in the limits of insurance available. If an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of our insured limits occurs, we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property, but still remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial obligations related to the property. We cannot guarantee that material losses in excess of insurance proceeds will not occur in the future. If any of our properties were to experience a catastrophic loss, it could seriously disrupt our operations, delay revenue and result in large expenses to repair or rebuild the property. Also, due to inflation, changes in codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors, it may not be feasible to use insurance proceeds to replace a building after it has been damaged or destroyed. Further, we may be unable to collect insurance proceeds if our insurers are unable to pay or contest a claim. Events such as these could adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to meet our obligations, including distributions to our shareholders. Natural disasters, climate change and health crises, including the COVID-19 pandemic, could have an adverse impact on our cash flow and operating results. Climate change may add to the unpredictability and frequency of natural disasters and severe weather conditions and create additional uncertainty as to future trends and exposures. Certain of our operations are located in areas that are subject to natural disasters and severe weather conditions such as hurricanes, earthquakes, droughts, snow storms, floods and fires.  The impact of climate change or the occurrence of natural disasters can delay new development projects, increase investment costs to repair or replace damaged properties, increase operating costs, create additional investment costs to make improvements to existing properties to comply with climate change regulations, increase future property insurance costs, and negatively impact the tenant demand for space.  If insurance is unavailable to us or is unavailable on acceptable terms, or if our insurance is not adequate to cover business interruption or losses from these events, our earnings, liquidity or capital resources could be adversely affected. 12 In addition, our business is subject to risks related to the effects of public health crises, epidemics and pandemics, including the COVID-19 pandemic. Such events could: • inhibit global, national and local economic activity; • drive inflation, adversely affect trading activity in securities markets, which could negatively impact the trading prices of our common shares and debt securities and our ability to access the securities markets as a source of liquidity; • adversely affect our tenants’ financial condition by limiting foot traffic and staffing at their businesses, which could affect their ability to pay rent and willingness to make new leasing commitments; • reduce our cash flow, which could impact our ability to pay dividends at the current rate and in the current format or at all or to service our debt; • temporarily or permanently reduce the demand for retail or office space; • interfere with our business operations by requiring our personnel to work remotely; • increase the frequency of cyber-attacks; • disrupt supply chains that could be important in our development and redevelopment activities; • result in labor shortages; • interfere with potential purchases and sales of properties; • impact our ability to pay dividends at the current rate and in the current format or at all; and • have other direct and indirect effects that are difficult to predict. Such risks depend upon the nature and severity of the public health concern, as well as the extent and duration of government-mandated orders and personal decisions to limit travel, economic activity and personal interaction, none of which can be predicted with confidence. In particular, we cannot predict the impact of stay-at-home and other government orders instituted in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, which vary by jurisdiction, or the pandemics' short and long term economic effects, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. An increased focus on metrics and reporting related to corporate responsibility, specifically related to environmental, social and governance ("ESG") factors, may impose additional costs and expose us to new risks. Investors and other stakeholders have become more focused on understanding how companies address a variety of ESG factors. Many of those investors and shareholders look to ESG rating systems that have been developed by third party groups to allow comparisons between companies on ESG factors as they evaluate investment decisions as well as to company disclosures.  Although we participate in many of these ratings systems and generally score relatively well in those in which we do participate, we do not participate in, and would not necessarily score well in, all of the available ratings systems. Further, the criteria used in these ratings systems change frequently, and we cannot guaranty that we will be able to score well as criteria change. We supplement our participation in ratings systems with corporate disclosures of our ESG activities but many investors and stakeholders may look for specific disclosures that we do not provide. Failure to participate in certain of the third party ratings systems, failure to score well in those ratings systems or failure to provide certain ESG disclosures could result in reputational harm when investors or others compare us against similar companies in our industry and could cause certain investors to be unwilling to invest in our stock which could adversely impact our ability to raise capital. For more information about the Trust's Corporate Responsibility initiatives, see Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Corporate Responsibility." Risk Factors Related to our Funding Strategies and Capital Structure The amount of debt we have and the restrictions imposed by that debt could adversely affect our business and financial condition. As of December 31, 2021, we had approximately $4.1 billion of debt outstanding. Of that outstanding debt, approximately $341.6 million was secured by all or a portion of 7 of our real estate projects. As of December 31, 2021, approximately 92.6% of our debt is fixed rate or is fixed via interest rate swap agreements, which includes all of our property secured debt and our unsecured senior notes. Our organizational documents do not limit the level or amount of debt that we may incur. The amount of our debt outstanding from time to time could have important consequences to our shareholders. For example, it could: • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for operations, property acquisitions, redevelopments and other appropriate business opportunities that may arise in the future; • limit our ability to make distributions on our outstanding common shares and preferred shares; • make it difficult to satisfy our debt service requirements; • require us to dedicate increased amounts of our cash flow from operations to payments on debt upon refinancing or on our variable rate, unhedged debt, if interest rates rise; 13 • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the factors that affect the profitability of our business; • limit our ability to obtain any additional debt or equity financing we may need in the future for working capital, debt refinancing, capital expenditures, acquisitions, redevelopments or other general corporate purposes or to obtain such financing on favorable terms; and/or • limit our flexibility in conducting our business, which may place us at a disadvantage compared to competitors with less debt or debt with less restrictive terms. Our ability to make scheduled principal payments of, to pay interest on, or to refinance our indebtedness will depend primarily on our future performance, which to a certain extent is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. There can be no assurance that our business will continue to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt or meet our other cash needs. If we are unable to generate this cash flow from our business, we may be required to refinance all or a portion of our existing debt, sell assets or obtain additional financing to meet our debt obligations and other cash needs, including the payment of dividends required to maintain our status as a real estate investment trust. We cannot assure you that any such refinancing, sale of assets or additional financing would be possible on terms that we would find acceptable. We are obligated to comply with financial and other covenants pursuant to our debt obligations that could restrict our operating activities, and the failure to comply with such covenants could result in defaults that accelerate payment under our debt agreements. Our revolving credit facility, unsecured term loan, and certain series of notes include financial covenants that may limit our operating activities in the future. We are also required to comply with additional covenants that include, among other things, provisions: • relating to the maintenance of property securing a mortgage; • restricting our ability to pledge assets or create liens; • restricting our ability to incur additional debt; • restricting our ability to amend or modify existing leases at properties securing a mortgage; • restricting our ability to enter into transactions with affiliates; and • restricting our ability to consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets. As of December 31, 2021, we were in compliance with all of our default related financial covenants. If we were to breach any of our default related debt covenants, including the covenants listed above, and did not cure the breach within any applicable cure period, our lenders could require us to repay the debt immediately, and, if the debt is secured, could immediately begin proceedings to take possession of the property securing the loan. Many of our debt arrangements, including our public notes and our revolving credit facility, are cross-defaulted, which means that the lenders under those debt arrangements can put us in default and require immediate repayment of their debt if we breach and fail to cure a default under certain of our other debt obligations. As a result, any default under our debt covenants could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, our results of operations, our ability to meet our obligations and the market value of our shares. Adverse changes in our credit rating could affect our borrowing capacity and borrowing terms. Our credit worthiness is rated by nationally recognized credit rating agencies. The credit ratings assigned are based on our operating performance, liquidity and leverage ratios, financial condition and prospects, and other factors viewed by the credit rating agencies as relevant to our industry and the economic outlook in general. Our credit rating can affect the amount of capital we access, as well as the terms of certain existing and future financing we obtain. Since we depend on debt financing to fund the growth of our business, an adverse change in our credit rating, including actual changes in outlook, or even the initiation of review of our credit rating that could result in an adverse change, could have a material adverse effect on us. Our ability to grow will be limited if we cannot obtain additional capital. Our growth strategy is focused on the development and redevelopment of properties we already own and the acquisition of additional properties. We believe that it will be difficult to fund our expected growth with cash from operating activities because, in addition to other requirements, we are generally required to distribute to our shareholders at least 90% of our taxable income each year to continue to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. As a result, we must rely primarily upon the availability of debt or equity capital, which may or may not be available on favorable terms or at all. Debt could include the sale of debt securities and mortgage loans from third parties. If economic conditions and conditions in the capital markets are not favorable at the time we need to raise capital, we may need to obtain capital on less favorable terms.  Additionally, we cannot guarantee that additional financing, refinancing or other capital will be available in the amounts we desire or on favorable terms. Our access to debt or equity capital depends on a number of factors, including the market’s 14 perception of our growth potential and risk profile, our ability to pay dividends, and our current and potential future earnings. Depending on the outcome of these factors as well as the impact of the economic environment, we could experience delay or difficulty in implementing our growth strategy on satisfactory terms, or be unable to implement this strategy. Rising interest rates could adversely affect our cash flow and the market price of our outstanding debt and preferred shares. Of our $4.1 billion of debt outstanding as of December 31, 2021, approximately $356.5 million bears interest at a variable rate, of which, $300.0 million is our unsecured term loan that bears interest at a variable rate of LIBOR plus 80 basis points and $56.5 million in mortgages payable that bear interest at a variable rate of LIBOR plus 195 basis points and are effectively fixed through two interest rate swap agreements. We also have a $1.0 billion revolving credit facility, on which no balance was outstanding at December 31, 2021, that bears interest at LIBOR plus 77.5 basis points. We may borrow additional funds at variable interest rates in the future. Increases in interest rates would increase the interest expense on our variable rate debt and reduce our cash flow, which could adversely affect our ability to service our debt and meet our other obligations and also could reduce the amount we are able to distribute to our shareholders. We may enter into additional hedging arrangements or other transactions for all or a portion of our variable rate debt to limit our exposure to rising interest rates. However, the amounts we are required to pay under variable rate debt to which hedging or similar arrangements relate may increase in the event of non-performance by the counterparties to any such hedging arrangements. In addition, an increase in market interest rates may lead purchasers of our debt securities and preferred shares to demand a higher annual yield, which could adversely affect the market price of our outstanding debt securities and preferred shares and the cost and/or timing of refinancing or issuing additional debt securities or preferred shares. The phase-out of LIBOR could affect interest rates under our variable rate debt and interest rate swap arrangements. LIBOR is used as a reference rate for our revolving credit facility, certain mortgage payables, and in our interest rate swap arrangements. On July 27, 2017, the United Kingdom's Financial Conduct Authority announced it intends to stop compelling banks to submit rates for the calculation of LIBOR after 2021. On November 30, 2020, the ICE Benchmark Administration Limited announced its plan to extend the date that most U.S. LIBOR values would cease being computed and published from December 31, 2021 to June 30, 2023. The Federal Reserve Board and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York organized the Alternative Reference Rates Committee which identified the Secured Overnight Financing Rate ("SOFR") as its preferred alternative to U.S. dollar LIBOR in derivatives and other financial contracts. At this time, we can not predict the effect of any discontinuance, modification or other reforms to LIBOR, or if SOFR, or another alternative rate reference rate, attains market traction as a LIBOR replacement. As LIBOR phases out and ceases to exist, we will need to agree upon a benchmark replacement index with the bank, and as such the interest rate on our revolving credit facility and certain mortgage payables may change. The new rate may not be as favorable as those in effect prior to any LIBOR phase-out. Furthermore, the transition process may result in delays in funding, higher interest expense, additional expenses, and increased volatility in markets for instruments that currently rely on LIBOR, all of which could negatively impact our cash flow. Risk Factors Related to our REIT Status and Other Laws and Regulations Environmental laws and regulations could reduce the value or profitability of our properties. All real property and the operations conducted on real property are subject to federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations relating to hazardous materials, environmental protection and human health and safety.  Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, we and our tenants may be responsible for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances released on or in properties we own or operate, as well as certain other potential costs relating to hazardous or toxic substances (including governmental fines and injuries to persons and property). This liability may be imposed whether or not we knew about, or were responsible for, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances.  Further, the presence of contamination on our properties or the failure to properly remediate contamination at any of our properties may adversely affect our ability to sell or lease those properties or to borrow funds by using those properties as collateral. The costs or liabilities could exceed the value of the affected real estate.  We are not aware of any environmental condition with respect to any of our properties that management believes would have a material adverse effect on our business, assets or results of operations taken as a whole. In addition, changes in government legislation and regulation on climate change could result in increased capital expenditures to improve the energy efficiency of our existing properties and could also require us to spend more on our development or redevelopment projects without a corresponding increase in revenues, which may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 15 The Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 could require us to take remedial steps with respect to existing or newly acquired properties. Our existing properties, as well as properties we may acquire, as commercial facilities, are required to comply with Title III of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990. Investigation of a property may reveal non-compliance with this Act. The requirements of this Act, or of other federal, state or local laws or regulations, also may change in the future and restrict further renovations of our properties with respect to access for disabled persons. Future compliance with this Act may require expensive changes to the properties. The revenues generated by our tenants could be negatively affected by various federal, state and local laws to which they are subject. We and our tenants are subject to a wide range of federal, state and local laws and regulations, such as local licensing requirements, consumer protection laws and state and local fire, life-safety and similar requirements that affect the use of the properties. The leases typically require that each tenant comply with all laws and regulations. Failure to comply could result in fines by governmental authorities, awards of damages to private litigants, or restrictions on the ability to conduct business on such properties. Non-compliance of this sort could reduce our revenues from a tenant, could require us to pay penalties or fines relating to any non-compliance, and could adversely affect our ability to sell or lease a property. Failure to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes would cause the Parent Company to be taxed as a corporation, which would substantially reduce funds available for payment of distributions. We believe that we are organized and qualified as a REIT for federal income tax purposes and currently intend to operate in a manner that will allow us to continue to qualify as a REIT under the Code. However, we cannot assure you that we will remain qualified as such in the future. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions and applicable income tax regulations that have been issued under the Code. Certain facts and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to qualify as a REIT. For example, in order to qualify as a REIT, at least 95% of our gross income in any year must be derived from qualifying rents and certain other income. Satisfying this requirement could be difficult, for example, if defaults by tenants were to reduce the amount of income from qualifying rents. As a REIT, we must generally make annual distributions to shareholders of at least 90% of our taxable income. In addition, new legislation, new regulations, new administrative interpretations or new court decisions may significantly change the tax laws with respect to qualification as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences of such qualification. Any modification in the tax treatment of REITs could have a significant adverse impact to our net income. If we fail to qualify as a REIT: • we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to shareholders in computing taxable income; • we would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates; • unless we are entitled to relief under specific statutory provisions, we could not elect to be taxed as a REIT for four taxable years following the year during which we were disqualified; • we could be required to pay significant income taxes, which would substantially reduce the funds available for investment or for distribution to our shareholders for each year in which we failed or were not permitted to qualify; and • we would no longer be required by law to make any distributions to our shareholders. To maintain our status as a REIT, we limit the amount of shares any one shareholder of the Parent Company can own. The Code imposes certain limitations on the ownership of the stock of a REIT. For example, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding shares of capital stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Code) during the last half of any taxable year. To protect our REIT status, the Parent Company's declaration of trust prohibits any one shareholder from owning (actually or constructively) more than 9.8% in value of the outstanding common shares or of any class or series of outstanding preferred shares. The constructive ownership rules are complex. Shares of the Parent Company's capital stock owned, actually or constructively, by a group of related individuals and/or entities may be treated as constructively owned by one of those individuals or entities. As a result, the acquisition of less than 9.8% in value of the outstanding common shares and/or a class or series of preferred shares (or the acquisition of an interest in an entity that owns common shares or preferred shares) by an individual or entity could cause that individual or entity (or another) to own constructively more than 9.8% in value of the outstanding capital stock. If that happened, either the transfer of ownership would be void or the shares would be transferred to a charitable trust and then sold to someone who can own those shares without violating the 9.8% ownership limit. The Board of Trustees may waive these restrictions on a case-by-case basis. In addition, the Board of Trustees and two-thirds of our shareholders eligible to vote at a shareholder meeting may remove these restrictions if they determine it is no longer in our 16 best interests for the Parent Company to attempt to qualify, or to continue to qualify, as a REIT. The 9.8% ownership restrictions may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change of our control that might involve a premium price for the common shares or otherwise be in the shareholders’ best interest. Legislative, administrative, regulatory or other actions affecting REITs, including positions taken by the IRS, could have a material adverse effect on us and our investors. The rules dealing with U.S. federal income taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process, and by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) and the U.S. Department of the Treasury (“Treasury”). Changes to the tax laws or interpretations thereof by the IRS and the Treasury, with or without retroactive application, could materially and adversely affect us and our investors. In particular, additional technical corrections legislation and implementing regulations may be enacted or promulgated in response to the Tax Cuts and Job Acts of 2017 (the "Act"), and substantive legislative changes to the Act are also possible. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, multiple pieces of legislation have already been enacted, including the 2020 CARES Act, and there have also been significant issuances of regulatory and other guidance, and further legislative enactments and other IRS or Treasury action is possible. No prediction can be made as to the likelihood of passage of  new tax legislation or other provisions, or the direct or indirect effect on us and our shareholders. Accordingly, such new legislation, Treasury regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could significantly and negatively affect our ability to qualify to be taxed as a REIT and/or the U.S. federal income tax consequences to us and our investors of such qualification. Certain tax and anti-takeover provisions of the Parent Company's declaration of trust and bylaws, and certain restrictions in the Partnership's limited partnership agreement, may inhibit a change of our control. Certain provisions contained in the Parent Company's declaration of trust and bylaws and the Maryland General Corporation Law, as applicable to Maryland REITs, may discourage a third party from making a tender offer or acquisition proposal to us. If this were to happen, it could delay, deter or prevent a change in control or the removal of existing management. These provisions also may delay or prevent the shareholders from receiving a premium for their common shares over then-prevailing market prices. These provisions include: • the REIT ownership limit described above; • authorization of the issuance of our preferred shares with powers, preferences or rights to be determined by the Board of Trustees; • special meetings of our shareholders may be called only by the chairman of the board, the chief executive officer, the president, by one-third of the trustees or by shareholders possessing no less than 25% of all the votes entitled to be cast at the meeting; • the Board of Trustees, without a shareholder vote, can classify or reclassify unissued shares of beneficial interest, including the reclassification of common shares into preferred shares and vice-versa; • a two-thirds shareholder vote is required to approve some amendments to the declaration of trust; and • advance-notice requirements for proposals to be presented at shareholder meetings. In addition, if we elect to be governed by it in the future, the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Law could delay or prevent a change in control. Under Maryland law, unless a REIT elects not to be subject to this law, “control shares” acquired in a “control share acquisition” have no voting rights except to the extent approved by shareholders by a vote of two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding shares owned by the acquirer and by officers or trustees who are employees of the REIT. “Control shares” are voting shares that would entitle the acquirer to exercise voting power in electing trustees within specified ranges of voting power. A “control share acquisition” means the acquisition of control shares, with some exceptions. The Parent Company's bylaws state that the Maryland control share acquisition law will not apply to any acquisition by any person of our common shares. This bylaw provision may be repealed, in whole or in part, at any time, whether before or after an acquisition of control shares, by a vote of a majority of the shareholders entitled to vote, and, upon such repeal, may, to the extent provided by any successor bylaw, apply to any prior or subsequent control share acquisition. In addition, certain provisions in the Partnership’s limited partnership agreement (the “Partnership Agreement”) may delay or make more difficult unsolicited acquisitions of us or changes in our control. These provisions could discourage third parties from making proposals involving an unsolicited acquisition of us or change of our control, although some shareholders might consider such proposals, if made, desirable. These provisions also make it more difficult for third parties to alter the management structure of the Partnership without the concurrence of our Board of Trustees. These provisions include, among others: • redemption rights of limited partners and certain assignees of units of limited partnership interest ("OP Units"); • transfer restrictions on OP Units and restrictions on admissions of partners; • a requirement that the General Partner may not be removed as the general partner of the Partnership without its consent; 17 • the ability of the General Partner to issue preferred partnership interests in the Partnership with terms that it may determine, without the approval or consent of any Limited Partner; and • restrictions on the ability of the General Partner, the Partnership or the Parent Company to transfer its interests in the Partnership or otherwise engage in certain extraordinary transactions, including, among others, certain mergers, business combinations, sales of all or substantially all of their assets and recapitalizations. We may be required to incur additional debt to qualify as a REIT. As a REIT, we must generally make annual distributions to shareholders of at least 90% of our taxable income. We are subject to income tax on amounts of undistributed taxable income and net capital gain. In addition, we would be subject to a 4% excise tax if we fail to distribute sufficient income to meet a minimum distribution test based on our ordinary income, capital gain and aggregate undistributed income from prior years. We intend to make distributions to shareholders to comply with the Code’s distribution provisions and to avoid federal income and excise tax. We may need to borrow funds to meet our distribution requirements because: • our income may not be matched by our related expenses at the time the income is considered received for purposes of determining taxable income; and • non-deductible capital expenditures, creation of reserves, or debt service requirements may reduce available cash but not taxable income. In these circumstances, we might have to borrow funds on terms we might otherwise find unfavorable and we may have to borrow funds even if our management believes the market conditions make borrowing financially unattractive. Current tax law also allows us to pay a portion of our distributions in shares instead of cash. General Risk Factors The market value of our debt and equity securities is subject to various factors that may cause significant fluctuations or volatility. As with other publicly traded securities, the market price of our debt and equity securities depends on various factors, which may change from time to time and/or may be unrelated to our financial condition, operating performance or prospects that may cause significant fluctuations or volatility in such prices. These factors include, among others: • general economic and financial market conditions; • level and trend of interest rates; • our ability to access the capital markets to raise additional capital; • the issuance of additional equity or debt securities; • changes in our funds from operations (“FFO”) or earnings estimates; • changes in our credit or analyst ratings; • our financial condition and performance; • market perception of our business compared to other REITs; and • market perception of REITs, in general, compared to other investment alternatives. We cannot assure you we will continue to pay dividends in the current composition or at historical rates. Our ability to continue to pay dividends on our common shares at historical rates or to increase our common share dividend rate, and our ability to pay preferred share dividends and service our debt securities, will depend on a number of factors, including, among others, the following: • our financial condition and results of future operations; • the performance by our tenants under their contractual lease agreements; • the terms of our loan covenants; and • our ability to acquire, finance, develop or redevelop and lease additional properties at attractive rates. If we do not maintain or increase, or if we change the composition of the dividend on our common shares, it could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common shares and other securities. Any preferred shares we may offer in the future may have a fixed dividend rate that would not increase with any increases in the dividend rate of our common shares. Conversely, payment of dividends on our common shares may be subject to payment in full of the dividends on any preferred shares and payment of interest on any debt securities we may offer. 18 The Parent Company is a holding company with no direct operations, and it will rely on funds received from the Partnership to pay its obligations and make distributions to its shareholders. The Parent Company is a holding company and expects to conduct substantially all of its operations through the Partnership. The Parent Company will not have, apart from an interest in the Partnership, any independent operations. As a result, the Parent Company will rely on distributions from the Partnership to make any distributions we declare on our common shares. The Parent Company will also rely on distributions from the Partnership to meet its obligations, including any tax liability on taxable income allocated to the Parent Company from the Partnership. Through its ownership and control of the General Partner, the Parent Company exercises exclusive control over the Partnership, including the authority to cause the Partnership to make distributions, subject to certain limited approval and voting rights of the Partnership’s Limited Partners as described in the Partnership Agreement. In addition, because the Parent Company is a holding company, your claims as shareholders are structurally subordinated to all existing and future liabilities and obligations to preferred equity holders of the Partnership and its subsidiaries. Therefore, in the event of a bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation or reorganization of the Partnership or its subsidiaries, assets of the Partnership or the applicable subsidiary will be available to satisfy any claims of our shareholders only after such liabilities and obligations have been satisfied in full. We currently own 100% of the OP Units issued by the Partnership and are its sole Limited Partner. However, in connection with our future acquisition activities or otherwise, we may issue additional OP Units to third parties and admit additional Limited Partners. Such issuances would reduce the Parent Company’s percentage ownership in the Partnership. Loss of our key management could adversely affect performance and the value of our common shares. We are dependent on the efforts of our key management. Although we believe qualified replacements could be found for any departures of key executives, the loss of their services could adversely affect our performance and the value of our common shares. We may adjust our business policies without shareholder approval. We may modify our approach to investment, financing, borrowing, and other operating strategies without shareholder approval. A change in the approach to any of these items could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, and the market price of our securities. Our current business plan focuses on our investment in high quality retail based properties that are typically neighborhood and community shopping centers or mixed-use properties, principally through redevelopments and acquisitions. If this business plan is not successful, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Given these uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements that we make, including those in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Except as may be required by law, we make no promise to update any of the forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You should carefully review the above risks and the risk factors. We face risks relating to cyber attacks that could cause loss of confidential information and other business disruptions. We rely extensively on information technology systems to process transactions and manage our business, and our business is at risk from and may be impacted by cyber attacks. These could include attempts to gain unauthorized access to our data and computer systems as well as attacks on third party's information technology systems that we rely on to provide important information technology services relating to key business functions, such as payroll. Attacks can be both individual and/or highly organized attempts by very sophisticated hacking organizations. We employ a number of measures to prevent, detect and mitigate these threats, which include password encryption, multi-factor authentication, frequent password change events, firewall detection systems, anti-virus software in-place, frequent backups, a redundant data system for core applications and penetration testing; however, there is no guarantee such efforts will be successful in preventing a cyber attack. A cyber attack could compromise the confidential information of our employees, tenants and vendors. A successful attack could disrupt and otherwise adversely affect our business operations.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

This section generally discusses 2021 and 2020 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2021 and 2020. Discussions of 2019 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2020 and 2019 that are not included in this Form 10-K can be found in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2020 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 11, 2021. Forward-Looking Statements Certain statements in this section or elsewhere in this report may be deemed “forward-looking statements”. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors” in this report for important information regarding these forward-looking statements and certain risk and uncertainties that may affect us. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto appearing in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this report. Overview We are an equity real estate investment trust ("REIT") specializing in the ownership, management, and redevelopment of high quality retail and mixed-use properties located primarily in densely populated and affluent communities in strategically selected metropolitan markets in the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic regions of the United States, California, and South Florida. As of December 31, 2021, we owned or had a majority interest in community and neighborhood shopping centers and mixed-use properties which are operated as 104 predominantly retail real estate projects comprising approximately 25.1 million square feet. In total, the real estate projects were 93.6% leased and 91.1% occupied at December 31, 2021. We have paid quarterly dividends to our shareholders continuously since our founding in 1962 and have increased our dividends per common share for 54 consecutive years. Summary Financial Information The following table includes select financial information that is helpful in understanding the trends in financial condition and the results of operations discussed throughout this Item 7. and “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” 32 (1) Property operating income is a non-GAAP measure that consists of rental income and mortgage interest income, less rental expenses and real estate taxes. This measure is used internally to evaluate the performance of property operations and we consider it to be a significant measure. Property operating income should not be considered an alternative measure of operating results or cash flow from operations as determined in accordance with GAAP. The reconciliation of operating income to property operating income for 2021, 2020, and 2019 is as follows: (2) Funds from operations "FFO" is a supplemental non-GAAP measure. See "Liquidity and Capital Resources" in this Item 7. for further discussion. (3) EBITDA for Real Estate ("EBITDAre") is a non-GAAP measure that NAREIT defines as: net income computed in accordance with GAAP plus net interest expense, income tax expense, depreciation and amortization, gain or loss on sale of real estate, impairments of real estate, and adjustments to reflect the entity's share of EBITDAre of unconsolidated 33 affiliates. We calculate EBITDAre consistent with the NAREIT definition. As EBITDA is a widely known and understood measure of performance, management believes EBITDAre represents an additional non-GAAP performance measure, independent of a company's capital structure that will provide investors with a uniform basis to measure the enterprise value of a company. EBITDAre also approximates a key performance measure in our debt covenants, but it should not be considered an alternative measure of operating results or cash flow from operations as determined in accordance with GAAP. The reconciliation of net income to EBITDAre for the periods presented is as follows: (4) Fixed charges consist of interest on borrowed funds (including capitalized interest), amortization of debt discount/ premiums and debt costs, costs related to the early extinguishment of debt, and the portion of rent expense representing an interest factor. Excluding the $11.2 million early extinguishment of debt charge from fixed charges in 2020, the ratio of EBITDAre to combined fixed charges and preferred share dividends is 2.9x. Excluding the $11.9 million charge related to the buyout of the Kmart lease at Assembly Square Marketplace in 2019, our ratio of EBITDAre to combined fixed charges and preferred share dividends remained 4.2x. Impacts of COVID-19 Pandemic We continue to monitor and address risks related to the COVID-19 pandemic. Since March 2020 when the World Health Organization characterized COVID-19 as a global pandemic, we have been and continue to be impacted by COVID-19 and the actions taken by federal, state, and local government to prevent its spread. These actions included the closure of nonessential businesses and ordering residents to generally stay at home at the onset of the pandemic, phased reopenings and capacity limitations, and now generally lifted restrictions. While the overall economy is showing signs of recovery from the initial impacts of COVID-19, workforce shortages, global supply chain bottlenecks and shortages, inflation, as well as COVID-19 variants are impacting the pace of recovery. Closures and restrictions, along with general concern over the spread of COVID-19, required a significant number of tenants to close their operations or to significantly limit the amount of business they are able to conduct, which impacted their ability to timely pay rent as required under our leases and also caused many tenants to close their business permanently. While improving, our cash flow and results of operations in the year ended December 31, 2021 continued to be materially adversely impacted, with vacancy levels remaining above historical levels. Although virtually all of our leases required the tenants to pay rent even while they were not operating, we entered into numerous agreements to abate, defer, and/or restructure tenant rent payments for varying periods of time, all with the objective of collecting as much cash as reasonably possible and maintaining occupancy to the maximum extent. We believe those actions will position many of our tenants to be able to return to payment of contractual rent as soon as possible after the impacts from the pandemic have subsided. We believe that the actions we have taken to improve our financial position and maximize our liquidity, as described further in the "Management's  Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in our 2020 Annual Report on Form 10-K, will continue to mitigate the impact to our cash flow caused by tenants not timely paying contractual rent. Throughout 2021, we continued to maintain levels of cash significantly in excess of the cash balances we have historically maintained which has adversely impacted our financial results; however, we believe that such action was prudent to position us with what we expect to be sufficient liquidity to allow us to continue fully operating as our operating revenues begin to return to more typical levels. As of December 31, 2021, there is no outstanding balance on our $1.0 billion revolving credit facility, and we have cash and cash equivalents of $162.1 million. 34 Additional discussion of the impact of COVID-19 on our results and long-term operations can be found throughout Item 7 and . Risk Factors. Corporate Responsibility We actively endeavor to operate and develop our properties in a sustainable, responsible, and effective manner with the objective being to drive long-term growth and aid in value creation for our shareholders, tenants, employees, and local communities. We have aligned our program and efforts with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, as described in our ESG Policy and our 2020 Corporate Responsibility Report, which are provided only for informational purposes on our website and not incorporated herein. Our development activities have been heavily focused on owning, developing and operating properties that are certified under the U.S. Green Building Council’s® (“USGBC”) Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design™ (LEED®) rating system which serves as a third-party verification that a building or community was designed and built to mitigate its environmental footprint. We currently have 18 LEED certified buildings and our Pike & Rose project has achieved LEED for Neighborhood Development Stage 3 Gold certification. The COVID-19 pandemic has also increased our focus on owning, developing and operating healthier buildings. To that end, our new corporate headquarters space at our 909 Rose Avenue building has earned a Fitwel certification developed by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) together with the General Services Administration (GSA). This certification assesses a building’s impact on seven distinct categories related to overall health and well-being. We are also committed to implementing sustainable business practices at our operating properties that focus on energy efficiency, water conservation and waste minimization and have established energy and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions reduction targets. To achieve these targets, we are actively addressing energy efficiency projects on site such as upgrading to LED lighting; and to address emissions we are procuring green energy, reducing electric consumption, and increasing our onsite solar generation capacity.  We have installed on-site solar systems at 25 of our properties with a capacity of over 13 MW with more projects actively in progress. Our current capacity placed us in the top 5 among real estate companies for onsite capacity in the most recent Solar Energy Industry Association’s annual Solar Means Business Report. We are also actively installing electric vehicle car charging stations in numerous properties throughout our portfolio. We currently have over 300 charging stations in operation with more under construction. We also understand that we face risks presented by climate change and are working to evaluate our risk exposure. In our 2020 Corporate Responsibility Report, we provided a disclosure pursuant to the Task Force on Climate Related Financial Disclosure and we intend to provide that disclosure annually. We are also highly committed to our employees and fostering a work environment that promotes growth, development and personal well-being. Our four core values are accountability, excellence, innovation and integrity and we seek to attract and retain talented professionals who embrace those values. All of our efforts with respect to corporate responsibility are overseen by our Board of Trustees. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, referred to as “GAAP”, requires management to make estimates and assumptions that in certain circumstances affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities, and revenues and expenses. These estimates are prepared using management’s best judgment, after considering past and current events and economic conditions. In addition, information relied upon by management in preparing such estimates includes internally generated financial and operating information, external market information, when available, and when necessary, information obtained from consultations with third party experts. Actual results could differ from these estimates. A discussion of possible risks which may affect these estimates is included in “Item 1A. Risk Factors” of this report. Management considers an accounting estimate to be critical if changes in the estimate could have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. Our significant accounting policies are more fully described in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements; however, the most critical accounting policies, which are most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations, and involve the use of complex estimates and significant assumptions as to future uncertainties and, therefore, may result in actual amounts that differ from estimates, are as follows: 35 Collectibility of Lease Income Our leases with our tenants are classified as operating leases. When collection of substantially all lease payments during the lease term is considered probable, the lease qualifies for accrual accounting. When collection of substantially all lease payments during the lease term is not considered probable, total lease revenue is limited to the lesser of revenue recognized under accrual accounting or cash received. Determining the probability of collection of substantially all lease payments during a lease term requires significant judgment. This determination is impacted by numerous factors including our assessment of the tenant’s credit worthiness, economic conditions, tenant sales productivity in that location, historical experience with the tenant and tenants operating in the same industry, future prospects for the tenant and the industry in which it operates, and the length of the lease term. If leases currently classified as probable are subsequently reclassified as not probable, any outstanding lease receivables (including straight-line rent receivables) would be written-off with a corresponding decrease in rental income. For example, in the event that our collectibility determinations were not accurate and we were required to write off additional receivables equaling 1% of rental income, our rental income and net income would decrease by $9.5 million. If leases currently classified as not probable are subsequently changed to probable, any lease receivables (including straight-line rent receivables) are re-instated with a corresponding increase to rental income. Since March 2020, federal, state, and local governments have taken various actions to mitigate the spread of COVID-19. These actions included the closure of nonessential businesses and ordering residents to generally stay at home at the onset of the pandemic, phased re-openings and capacity limitations, and now generally lifted restrictions. While the overall economy is showing signs of recovery from the initial impacts of COVID-19, workforce shortages, global supply chain bottlenecks and shortages, inflation, as well as COVID-19 variants are impacting the recovery. Closures and restrictions, along with the general concern over the spread of COVID-19, required a significant number of tenants to close their operations or to significantly limit the amount of business they were able to conduct, which impacted their ability to timely pay rent as required under our leases and also caused many tenants to close their business permanently. As a result, we revised our collectibility assumptions for many of our tenants most significantly impacted by COVID-19. Accordingly, during the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, we recognized collectibility related adjustments of $24.0 million and $106.6 million, respectively. This includes changes in our collectibility assessments from probable to not probable, disputed rents, and any rent abatements directly related to COVID-19, as well as the write-off of $0.7 million and $12.7 million, respectively of straight-line rent receivables related to tenants changed to a cash basis of revenue recognition during the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020. As of December 31, 2021 and 2020, the revenue from approximately 34% and 35% of our tenants (based on total commercial leases), respectively, is being recognized on a cash basis. As of December 31, 2021 and 2020, our straight-line rent receivables balance was $110.7 million and $103.3 million, respectively, and is included in "accounts and notes receivable, net" on our consolidated balance sheet. Other revenue recognition policies When we enter into a transaction to sell a property or a portion of a property, we evaluate the recognition of the sale under ASC 610-20, "Other Income - Gains and Losses from the Derecognition of Nonfinancial Assets." In accordance with ASC 610-20, we apply the guidance in ASC 606, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers," to determine whether and when control transfers and how to measure the associated gain or loss. We determine the transaction price based on the consideration we expect to receive. Variable consideration is included in the transaction price to the extent it is probable that a significant reversal of a gain recognized will not occur. We analyze the risk of a significant gain reversal and if necessary limit the amount of variable consideration recognized in order to mitigate this risk. The estimation of variable consideration requires us to make assumptions and apply significant judgment. The existence and amount of variable consideration can vary significantly among transactions. Historically, our property sales have had variable consideration of less than 1% of total expected consideration; however, we had one transaction in 2019 where the variable consideration was approximately $45.5 million. Real Estate Acquisitions Upon acquisition of operating real estate properties, we estimate the fair value of assets and liabilities acquired including land, building, improvements, leasing costs, intangibles such as acquired leases, assumed debt, and current assets and liabilities, if any.  Based on these estimates, we allocate the purchase price to the applicable assets and liabilities. We utilize methods similar to those used by independent appraisers in estimating the fair value of acquired assets and liabilities. The value allocated to acquired leases is amortized over the related lease term and reflected as rental income in the statement of operations. We consider qualitative and quantitative factors in evaluating the likelihood of a tenant exercising a below market renewal option and include such renewal options in the calculation of in-place lease value when we consider these to be bargain renewal options. If the value of below market lease intangibles includes renewal option periods, we include such renewal periods in the amortization period utilized. If a tenant vacates its space prior to contractual termination of its lease, the unamortized balance of any acquired lease value is written off to rental income. 36 During 2021, we acquired properties with a total purchase price of $440.9 million. $4.6 million, or 1% of the total purchase price was allocated to above market lease assets and $57.3 million, or 13% was allocated to below market lease liabilities. If the amounts allocated in 2021 to below market lease liabilities and building assets were each reduced by 5% of the total purchase price, annual below market lease liability amortization increasing rental income would decrease by approximately $2.5 million (using the weighted average life of below market liabilities at each respective acquired property) and annual depreciation expense would decrease by approximately $0.6 million (using a depreciable life of 35 years). Long-Lived Assets and Impairment There are estimates and assumptions made by management in preparing the consolidated financial statements for which the actual results will be determined over long periods of time. This includes the recoverability of long-lived assets, including our properties that have been acquired or redeveloped and our investment in certain joint ventures. Management’s evaluation of impairment includes review for possible indicators of impairment as well as, in certain circumstances, undiscounted and discounted cash flow analysis. Since most of our investments in real estate are wholly-owned or controlled assets which are held for use, a property with impairment indicators is first tested for impairment by comparing the undiscounted cash flows, taking into account the anticipated hold period, including residual value, to the current net book value of the property. If the undiscounted cash flows are less than the net book value, the property is written down to expected fair value. The calculation of both discounted and undiscounted cash flows requires management to make estimates of future cash flows including revenues, operating expenses, required maintenance and development expenditures, market conditions, demand for space by tenants and rental rates over long periods. Because our properties typically have a long life, the assumptions used to estimate the future recoverability of book value requires significant management judgment. We are also required to estimate the anticipated hold period. A change in the expected holding period from a long term hold to a short term would cause a significant change in the undiscounted cash flows and could result in an impairment charge. Actual results could be significantly different from the estimates. These estimates have a direct impact on net income, because recording an impairment charge results in a negative adjustment to net income. Recently Adopted and Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. 2021 Acquisitions and Dispositions On January 4, 2021, we acquired our partner's 20% interest in our joint venture arrangement related to the Pike & Rose hotel for $2.3 million, and repaid the $31.5 million mortgage loan encumbering the hotel. As a result of the transaction, we gained control of the hotel, and effective January 4, 2021, we have consolidated this asset. We also recognized a gain on acquisition of the controlling interest of $2.1 million related to the difference between the carrying value and fair value of the previously held equity interest. On February 22, 2021, we acquired the fee interest at our Mount Vernon Plaza property in Alexandria, Virginia for $5.6 million. As a result of this transaction, the "operating lease right of use assets" and "operating lease liabilities" on our consolidated balance sheet decreased by $9.8 million. We now own the entire fee interest on this property. During the year ended December 31, 2021, we acquired the following properties: (1) These acquisitions were completed through newly formed joint ventures, for which we own the controlling interest listed above, and therefore, these properties are consolidated in our financial statements. (2) Approximately $1.9 million and $0.6 million of net assets acquired were allocated to other assets for "acquired lease costs" and "above market leases," respectively, and $8.0 million of net assets acquired were allocated to other liabilities for "below market leases." 37 (3) Approximately $12.3 million and $2.6 million of net assets acquired were allocated to other assets for "acquired lease costs" and "above market leases," respectively, and $14.7 million of net assets acquired were allocated to other liabilities for "below market leases." (4) Approximately $11.6 million of net assets acquired were allocated to other assets for "acquired lease costs" and $28.3 million were allocated to other liabilities for "below market leases." (5) The land is controlled under a long-term ground lease that expires on December 31, 2076, for which we have recorded a $10.4 million "operating lease right of use asset" (net of a $1.3 million above market liability) and an $11.6 million "operating lease liability." Approximately $2.7 million and $1.1 million of net assets acquired were allocated to other assets for "acquired lease costs" and "above market leases," respectively, and $3.6 million were allocated to other liabilities for "below market leases." (6) Approximately $1.2 million and $0.3 million of net assets acquired were allocated to other assets for "acquired lease costs" and "above market leases," respectively, and $2.7 million of net assets acquired were allocated to other liabilities for "below market leases." During the year ended December 31, 2021, we sold two properties and a portion of three properties for a total sales price of $141.6 million, which resulted in a net gain of $88.3 million. 2021 Significant Debt and Equity Transactions On February 24, 2021, we replaced our existing at-the-market (“ATM”) equity program with a new ATM equity program in which we may from time to time offer and sell common shares having an aggregate offering price of up to $500.0 million. On May 7, 2021, we amended this ATM equity program, which reset the limit to $500.0 million. The new ATM equity program also allows shares to be sold through forward sales contracts. We intend to use the net proceeds to fund potential acquisition opportunities, fund our development and redevelopment pipeline, repay indebtedness and/or for general corporate purposes. For the year ended December 31, 2021, we issued 847,471 common shares at a weighted average price per share of $104.19 for net cash proceeds of $87.0 million including paying $0.9 million in commissions and $0.4 million in additional offering expenses related to the sales of these common shares. We also entered into forward sales contracts for the year ended December 31, 2021 for 2,999,955 common shares under our ATM equity program at a weighted average offering price of $120.22. During 2021, we settled a portion of the forward sales agreements entered into during the year by issuing 796,300 common shares for net proceeds of $85.7 million. The forward price that we will receive upon physical settlement of the remaining forward sale agreements is subject to the adjustment for (i) commissions, (ii) a floating interest rate factor equal to a specified daily rate less a spread, (iii) the forward purchasers' stock borrowing costs and (iv) scheduled dividends during the term of the forward sale agreements. The remaining open forward shares may be settled at any time on or before multiple required settlement dates ranging from June 2022 to December 2022. As of December 31, 2021, we had the capacity to issue up to $175.0 million in common shares under our ATM equity program. On April 16, 2021, we repaid $100.0 million of our existing $400.0 million term loan, amended the agreement on the remaining $300.0 million to lower the current spread over LIBOR from 135 basis points to 80 basis points based on our current credit rating, and extended the initial maturity date to April 16, 2024, along with two one-year extensions, at our option. In 2021, we repaid the following mortgage loans, at par, prior to their original maturity date: Capitalized Costs Certain external and internal costs directly related to the development, redevelopment and leasing of real estate, including pre-construction costs, real estate taxes, insurance, and construction costs and salaries and related costs of personnel directly involved, are capitalized. We capitalized external and internal costs related to both development and redevelopment activities of $356 million and $10 million, respectively, for 2021 and $404 million and $9 million, respectively, for 2020. We capitalized external and internal costs related to other property improvements of $64 million and $4 million, respectively, for 2021 and $64 million and $3 million, respectively, for 2020. We capitalized external and internal costs related to leasing activities of $19 million and $3 million, respectively, for 2021 and $11 million and $2 million, respectively, for 2020. The amount of capitalized 38 internal costs for salaries and related benefits for development and redevelopment activities, other property improvements, and leasing activities were $10 million, $3 million, and $3 million, respectively, for 2021 and $9 million, $3 million, and $2 million, respectively, for 2020. Total capitalized costs were $456 million for 2021 and $494 million for 2020, respectively. Corporate Reorganization In January of 2022, we completed the UPREIT reorganization described in the Explanatory Note at the beginning of this Annual Report. Prior to the UPREIT Reorganization, our business was conducted through the Predecessor. This Annual Report pertains to the business and results of operations of the Predecessor for its fiscal year ended December 31, 2021. As a result of the UPREIT reorganization, the Parent Company became the successor issuer to the Predecessor under the Exchange Act. The Parent Company and the Partnership have elected to co-file this Annual Report of the Predecessor to ensure continuity of information to investors. For additional information on our UPREIT reorganization, please see our Current Reports on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on January 3, 2022 and January 5, 2022. Outlook Our long-term growth strategy is focused on growth in earnings, funds from operations, and cash flows primarily through a combination of the following: • growth in our comparable property portfolio, • growth in our portfolio from property development and redevelopments, and • expansion of our portfolio through property acquisitions. While the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic is impacting us in the short-term, our long-term focus has not changed. Our comparable property growth is primarily driven by increases in rental rates on new leases and lease renewals, changes in portfolio occupancy, and the redevelopment of those assets. Over the long-term, the infill nature and strong demographics of our properties provide a strategic advantage allowing us to maintain relatively high occupancy and generally increase rental rates. However, our occupancy levels and ability to increase rental rates will be adversely impacted in the short-term as a result of COVID-19. We believe the locations and nature of our centers and diverse tenant base partially mitigates any potential negative changes in the economic environment. However, any significant reduction in our tenants' abilities to pay base rent, percentage rent or other charges, will adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We seek to maintain a mix of strong national, regional, and local retailers. At December 31, 2021, no single tenant accounted for more than 2.7% of annualized base rent. Federal, state, and local governments have taken various actions to mitigate the spread of COVID-19, including initially ordering closures of non-essential businesses and ordering residents to generally stay at home. While many of these restrictions have since been lifted, they required a significant number of tenants to close their operations or to significantly limit the amount of business they were able to conduct in their stores. These closures and restrictions, along with general concerns over the spread of COVID-19 have impacted the tenants' ability to timely pay rent as required under our leases and also caused many tenants to close their business permanently. While we are seeing signs of considerable improvement, these economic hardships have adversely impacted our business, and continue to have a negative effect on our financial results during 2021 . With very few exceptions, our leases require tenants to continue to pay rent even while closed as a result of the pandemic, and while many tenants did not pay rents and other charges during a portion of 2020, the majority of our tenants have resumed paying all or a p ortion of their rent and/or other charges as their businesses were able to reopen. Our percentage of contractual rent actually collected has continued to increase since the low point in April 2020, including some tenants paying past due amounts. As of December 31, 2021, we have entered into agreements with approximately 32% of our tenants (based on total commercial leases) to defer rent payments to later periods, largely through 2022, although some extend beyond. While increasing monthly cash collection rates is a positive trend driven by government mandated restrictions gradually being lifted and improved outlook by some tenants, we expect that our rent collections will continue to be below our tenants' contractual rent obligations and historical levels into 2022, which will continue to adversely impact our results of operations. We are also experiencing a lower level of occupancy than in our past, largely due to the pandemic, which will adversely impact our results until we can release the space and the tenant commences paying rent as well as limit future vacancies caused by the pandemic. We are, however, experiencing strong demand for our commercial space as evidenced by the 2.1 million square feet of comparable space retail leasing we've completed in 2021, as well as our overall leased percentage at 93.6%, compared to our occupied percentage of only 91.1%. We have begun to see impacts of overall supply chain disruptions affecting the broader economy, including significantly longer lead times, limited availability, and increased costs for certain construction and other materials that support our leasing, development, and redevelopment activities. If disruptions continue to worsen, they could result in extended timeframes and/or increased costs for completion of our projects and tenant build-outs, which could delay the commencement of rent payments under new leases. Similarly, if our tenants experience significant disruptions in supply chains supporting their own products, or staffing issues due to labor shortages, their ability to pay rent may be adversely affected. We continue to 39 monitor these macroeconomic developments and are working with our tenants and our vendors to limit the overall impact to our business. The extent of such impact from COVID-19 will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted. Depending upon the duration of tenant closures, future operating restrictions, and the overall economic downturn resulting from COVID-19, we may find that even deferred rents are difficult to collect, and we may experience higher vacancy levels. While the duration and severity of the economic impact resulting from COVID-19 is unknown, we seek to position the Trust to continue to participate in the resulting economic recovery. We continue to have several development projects in process being delivered as follows: • Phase III of Assembly Row includes 277,000 square feet of office space, 56,000 square feet of retail space, and 500 residential units. The expected costs for Phase III are between $465 million and $485 million with spaces being delivered beginning in the second quarter of 2021. At December 31, 2021, 162,000 square feet of office space has been delivered, all of the units in the residential building have been delivered, and 23,000 square feet of retail space has opened. • Phase III at Pike & Rose includes a 212,000 square foot office building (which includes 7,000 square feet of ground floor retail space). The building is expected to cost between $128 million and $135 million. At December 31, 2021, approximately 162,000 square feet of office and retail space has been delivered, of which approximately 45,000 square feet is our new corporate headquarters. • Phase IV at Pike & Rose is a 276,000 square foot office building (which includes 10,000 square feet of ground floor retail space). Approximately 105,000 square feet of the office space is pre-leased to a single tenant. The building is expected to cost between $185 million and $200 million, and begin delivering in late 2023. • The first phase of construction on Santana West includes an eight story 376,000 square foot office building, which is expected to cost between $250 million and $270 million. • Throughout the portfolio, we currently have redevelopment projects underway with a projected total cost of approximately $313 million that we expect to stabilize over the next several years. The above includes our best estimates based on information currently known, however, the completion of construction, final costs, and the timing of leasing and openings may be further impacted by the current environment including the duration and severity of the economic impacts of COVID-19 and supply chain disruptions affecting the broader economy. The development of future phases of Assembly Row, Pike & Rose and Santana Row will be pursued opportunistically based on, among other things, market conditions, tenant demand, and our evaluation of whether those phases will generate an appropriate financial return. We continue to review acquisition opportunities that complement our portfolio and provide long-term growth opportunities. Initially, some of our acquisitions do not contribute significantly to earnings growth; however, we believe they provide long-term re-leasing growth, redevelopment opportunities, and other strategic opportunities. Any growth from acquisitions is contingent on our ability to find properties that meet our qualitative standards at prices that meet our financial hurdles. Changes in interest rates may affect our success in achieving earnings growth through acquisitions by affecting both the price that must be paid to acquire a property, as well as our ability to economically finance the property acquisition. Generally, our acquisitions are initially financed by available cash and/or borrowings under our revolving credit facility which may be repaid later with funds raised through the issuance of new equity or new long-term debt. We may also finance our acquisitions through the issuance of common shares, preferred shares, or units in our operating partnership (see "Corporate Reorganization" discussion in this Item 7), as well as through assumed mortgages and property sales. At December 31, 2021, the leasable square feet in our properties was 93.6% leased and 91.1% occupied. The leased rate is higher than the occupied rate due to leased spaces that are being redeveloped or improved or that are awaiting permits and, therefore, are not yet ready to be occupied. Our occupancy and leased rates are subject to variability over time due to factors including acquisitions, the timing of the start and stabilization of our redevelopment projects, lease expirations and tenant closings and bankruptcies. Comparable Properties Throughout this section, we have provided certain information on a “comparable property” basis. Information provided on a comparable property basis includes the results of properties that we owned and operated for the entirety of both periods being compared except for properties that are currently under development or are being repositioned for significant redevelopment and investment. For the year ended December 31, 2021 and the comparison of 2021 and 2020, all or a portion of 95 properties were considered comparable properties and seven were considered non-comparable properties. For the year ended December 31, 2021, two portions of properties were moved from non-comparable properties to comparable properties, one 40 property and two portions of properties were moved from acquisitions to comparable properties, one property was moved from comparable properties to non-comparable properties, two properties and one portion of a property were removed from comparable properties as they were sold, and two portions of properties were removed from non-comparable properties, as they were sold, compared to the designations as of December 31, 2020. While there is judgment surrounding changes in designations, we typically move non-comparable properties to comparable properties once they have stabilized, which is typically considered 90% physical occupancy or when the growth expected from the redevelopment has been included in the comparable periods. We typically remove properties from comparable properties when the repositioning of the asset has commenced and has or is expected to have a significant impact to property operating income within the calendar year. Acquisitions are moved to comparable properties once we have owned the property for the entirety of comparable periods and the property is not under development or being repositioned for significant redevelopment and investment. Comparable property information replaces our previous same center designations. 41 YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2021 COMPARED TO YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2020 (1) Property operating income is a non-GAAP measure. See "Summary Financial Information" in this Item 7 for further discussion. Property Revenues Total property revenue increased $115.7 million, or 13.9%, to $951.2 million in 2021 compared to $835.5 million in 2020. The percentage occupied at our shopping centers was 91.1% at December 31, 2021 compared to 90.2% at December 31, 2020. The most significant driver of the increase in property revenues is the generally lifted COVID-19 restrictions during 2021, as compared to 2020 when COVID-19 government imposed closures and restrictions were generally still in effect. Changes in the components of property revenue are discussed below. Rental Income Rental income consists primarily of minimum rent, cost reimbursements from tenants and percentage rent, and is net of collectibility related adjustments. Rental income increased $116.7 million, or 14.0%, to $948.8 million in 2021 compared to $832.2 million in 2020 due primarily to the following: • an $82.6 million decrease in collectibility related impacts including rent abatements across all properties, primarily due to higher collection rates in 2021 as tenants begin to recover from the initial impacts of COVID-19, and moving a large number of tenants from accrual basis to cash basis in 2020, • an increase of $32.2 million primarily from 2021 acquisitions (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information), and • an increase of $25.4 million from non-comparable properties driven by the opening of Phase III at Assembly Row in 2021 and our Phase III office building at Pike & Rose in 2020, redevelopment related occupancy increases at CocoWalk, the opening of our new office building at Santana Row in early 2020, higher net termination fees, and the opening of Freedom Plaza in 2020, partially offset by 42 • a decrease of $17.1 million from property sales, and • a decrease of $6.1 million at comparable properties due primarily to lower average occupancy of approximately $14.1 million, lower net termination fees and legal fee income of $5.1 million, and a $2.1 million decrease in recoveries primarily related to real estate tax recoveries, partially offset by higher percentage rent, specialty leasing, and parking income of $7.2 million, primarily due to the impact of COVID-19 related closures and restrictions in 2020, and higher rental rates of $6.7 million. Mortgage Interest Income Mortgage interest income decreased $0.9 million, or 28.3%, to $2.4 million in 2021 compared to $3.3 million in 2020 primarily due to the payoff of two mortgage notes receivable in May 2021 (see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information). Property Expenses Total property expenses increased $26.5 million, or 9.1%, to $316.6 million in 2021 compared to $290.2 million in 2020. Changes in the components of property expenses are discussed below. Rental Expenses Rental expenses increased $27.2 million, or 15.9%, to $198.1 million in 2021 compared to $170.9 million in 2020. This increase is primarily due to the following: • an increase of $19.3 million from comparable properties due to higher repairs and maintenance costs, demolition costs, and utilities, as 2020 had lower costs as a result of COVID-19 impacts, higher snow removal costs, and higher insurance costs, • an increase of $8.8 million primarily from 2021 acquisitions, and • an increase of $6.1 million from non-comparable properties driven by the opening of Phase III at Assembly Row in 2021, the Phase III office building at Pike & Rose in 2020, the CocoWalk redevelopment in late 2020, and the opening of our new office building at Santana Row in early 2020, partially offset by • a decrease of $5.0 million from our property sales. As a result of the changes in rental income and rental expenses as discussed above, rental expenses as a percentage of rental income increased to 20.9% for the year ended December 31, 2021 from 20.5% for the year ended December 31, 2020. Real Estate Taxes Real estate tax expense decreased $0.7 million, or 0.6% to $118.5 million in 2021 compared to $119.2 million in 2020 due primarily to the following: • a decrease of $3.5 million from our property sales, and • a decrease of $3.3 million from comparable properties primarily due to a true-up of supplemental taxes at several of our California properties billed in 2020 and prior year tax refunds recorded in 2021, partially offset by • an increase of $3.1 million from 2021 acquisitions, and • an increase of $2.9 million from non-comparable properties due primarily to the opening of Phase III at Assembly Row in 2021, the opening of our new office building at Santana Row in early 2020, increases in assessments as a result of our redevelopment activities, and the Phase III office building at Pike & Rose in 2020. Property Operating Income Property operating income increased $89.3 million, or 16.4%, to $634.6 million in 2021 compared to $545.3 million in 2020. This increase is primarily due to the lifting of COVID-19 restrictions during 2021, which resulted in lower collectibility related adjustments and higher specialty leasing, percentage rent, and parking income. Also contributing to the increases were property acquisitions, placing redevelopment properties into service, the opening of Phase III at Assembly Row in 2021, and the opening of our new office building at Santana Row in early 2020, partially offset by lower average occupancy, property dispositions, higher repairs and maintenance and utilities expense, and higher snow removal expense. 43 Other Operating General and Administrative Expense General and administrative expense increased $8.2 million, or 19.6%, to $49.9 million in 2021 from $41.7 million in 2020. This increase is due primarily to higher personnel related costs. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expense increased $24.9 million, or 9.8%, to $280.0 million in 2021 from $255.0 million in 2020. This increase is due primarily to 2021 property acquisitions, accelerated depreciation related to the demolition of one of our buildings in the early stages of redevelopment, the opening of Phase III of Assembly Row and the Pike & Rose, placing redevelopment properties into service, and the acquisition of the previously unconsolidated Pike & Rose hotel joint venture in January 2021, partially offset by 2020 property sales and the lower write-off of lease related assets for vacating tenants. Impairment Charge The $57.2 million impairment charge for the year ended December 31, 2020 relates to The Shops at Sunset Place. See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. Gain on Sale of Real Estate and Change in Control of Interest The $90.0 million gain on sale of real estate for the year ended December 31, 2021 is due to the sale of two properties and portions of three properties, as well as the $2.1 million gain relating to the acquisition of the previously unconsolidated Pike & Rose hotel join venture (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information). The $98.1 million gain on sale of real estate, net of tax for the year ended December 31, 2020 is due to the sale of three properties and one building. Operating Income Operating income increased $105.2 million, or 36.3%, to $394.7 million in 2021 compared to $289.5 million in 2020. This increase is primarily due to the lifting of COVID-19 restrictions, which resulted in lower collectibility related adjustments and higher specialty leasing, percentage rent, and parking income compared to 2020. Also contributing to the increases were the prior year impairment charge related to The Shops at Sunset Place, property acquisitions, placing redevelopment properties into service, the opening of Phase III at Assembly Row in 2021, and the opening of our new office building at Santana Row in early 2020, partially offset by lower average occupancy, higher personnel related costs, property dispositions, higher repairs and maintenance and utilities expense, a lower gain on sales of real estate, and higher snow removal expense. Other Interest Expense Interest expense decreased $8.6 million, or 6.3%, to $127.7 million in 2021 compared to $136.3 million in 2020. This decrease is due primarily to the following: • a decrease of $6.2 million due to a lower overall weighted average borrowing rate, and • a decrease of $3.2 million due to lower weighted average borrowings, partially offset by • a decrease of $0.8 million in capitalized interest. Gross interest costs were $150.3 million and $159.7 million in 2021 and 2020, respectively. Capitalized interest was $22.6 million and $23.4 million in 2021 and 2020, respectively. Early Extinguishment of Debt The $11.2 million early extinguishment of debt charge for the year ended December 31, 2020 relates to the make-whole premium paid as part of the early redemption of our $250 million 3.00% senior notes on December 31, 2020 and the related write-off of the unamortized discount and debt fees. 44 Income (loss) from Partnerships Income (loss) from partnerships increased $9.3 million or 115.4% to $1.2 million of income in 2021 compared to a loss of $8.1 million in 2020. This increase is due primarily to the acquisition of the previously unconsolidated Pike & Rose hotel joint venture in January 2021 and improved operating results at our restaurant joint ventures and at our Assembly Row hotel joint venture, largely the result of the easing of COVID-19 closures and restrictions. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests increased $3.4 million, or 81.3%, to $7.6 million in 2021 compared to $4.2 million in 2020. The increase is primarily due to The Shops at Sunset Place prior year impairment charge and 2021 acquisitions. Discussions of year-to-year comparisons between 2020 and 2019 can be found in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2020 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 11, 2021. Liquidity and Capital Resources Due to the nature of our business and strategy, we typically generate significant amounts of cash from operations which is largely paid to our common and preferred shareholders in the form of dividends because as a REIT, we are generally required to make annual distributions to shareholders of at least 90% of our taxable income (cash dividends paid in 2021 were approximately $337.4 million). Remaining cash flow from operations after dividend payments is used to fund recurring and non-recurring capital projects (such as tenant improvements and redevelopments), and regular debt service requirements (including debt service relating to additional or replacement debt, as well as scheduled debt maturities). We maintain a $1.0 billion revolving credit facility to fund short term cash flow needs and also look to the public and private debt and equity markets, joint venture relationships, and property dispositions to fund capital expenditures on a long-term basis. During 2021, we have continued to see improvements in overall cash collections from tenants as compared to 2020, although not yet at pre-COVID-19 levels (see further discussion  under the "Outlook" section of this Item 2). While the overall economic impacts of the pandemic are unknown, we have taken multiple steps to strengthen our financial position, maximize liquidity, and to provide maximum flexibility during these uncertain times, including maintaining levels of cash in excess of the cash balances we have historically maintained. As of December 31, 2021, there is no balance outstanding on our $1.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility and we had cash and cash equivalents of $162.1 million. We also had outstanding forward sales agreements for net proceeds of $264.0 million as of December 31, 2021, and the capacity to issue up to $175.0 million in common shares under the ATM program. We have no debt maturing until June 2023. For the year ended 2021, the weighted average amount of borrowings outstanding on our revolving credit facility was $19.6 million, and the weighted average interest rate, before amortization of debt fees, was 0.9%. Our overall capital requirements during 2022 will be impacted by the extent and duration of COVID-19 related closures and restrictions, impacts on our cash collections, and overall economic impacts that might occur including supply chain issues. Cash requirements will also be impacted by acquisition opportunities and the level and general timing of our redevelopment and development activities. While the amount of future expenditures will depend on numerous factors, we expect to continue to see elevated levels of investment as we continue to invest in our overall portfolio to better position our properties for a post-COVID environment, costs to prepare vacant space for new tenants, and investments to complete the current phase and start on the next phase of our larger mixed-use development projects although at a slightly reduced level from 2021, largely due to deliveries in 2021 of our third phase of Assembly Row. We believe that the cash on our balance sheet together with rents we collect, as well as our $1.0 billion revolving credit facility will allow us to continue to operate our business through the remainder of the COVID-19 pandemic. Given our ability to access the capital markets, we also expect debt or equity to be available to us. We also have the ability to delay the timing of certain development and redevelopment projects as well as limit future acquisitions, reduce our operating expenditures, or re-evaluate our dividend policy. While we have seen improvements from the initial negative impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic, it has continued to affect our overall business during the year ended December 31, 2021, and we expect it will continue to negatively impact our business in the short term, we intend to operate with and to maintain our long term commitment to a conservative capital structure that will 45 allow us to maintain strong debt service coverage and fixed-charge coverage ratios as part of our commitment to investment-grade debt ratings. Summary of Cash Flows Net cash provided by operating activities increased $101.4 million to $471.4 million during 2021 from $369.9 million during 2020. The increase was primarily attributable to higher net income before non-cash items and the timing of cash receipts including higher accounts receivable and lower prepaid rent balances in 2020 as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Net cash used in investing activities increased $291.7 million to $660.1 million during 2021 from $368.4 million during 2020. The increase was primarily attributable to: • a $356.9 million increase in acquisition of real estate primarily due to 2021 property acquisitions (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information), and • a $45.6 million decrease in proceeds from sales of real estate, resulting from the sale of two properties and a portion of three properties in 2021, as compared to the sale of three properties, one building, and the two remaining condominium units at our Pike & Rose property in 2020, partially offset by • a $54.5 million decrease in net capital expenditures and leasing costs, • a $41.4 million increase in net repayments and acquisitions of mortgages and other notes receivable primarily due to the $31.1 million payoff of two mortgage notes receivable in May 2021, as compared to the $9.6 million acquisition of two mortgage notes receivable in September 2020, and • $12.9 million paid in 2020 relating to the partial sale under threat of condemnation at San Antonio Center in 2019. Net cash provided by financing activities decreased $1.1 billion to $453.0 million used during 2021 from $661.7 million provided during 2020. The decrease was primarily attributable to: • a $1.1 billion decrease due to net proceeds of $700.1 million from the issuance of $400.0 million of 3.50% unsecured senior notes and the $300.0 million reopening of our 3.95% unsecured senior notes in May 2020, and $394.2 million in net proceeds from our $400.0 million of 1.25% unsecured senior notes in October 2020, • $398.7 million in net proceeds from our unsecured term loan in May 2020, • a $207.4 million increase in repayment of mortgages, finance leases, and notes payable primarily due to the $140.9 million net repayments of four mortgage loans in 2021 (see Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements for more information), the $100.0 million repayment of our $400.0 million term loan which was amended in April 2021, and the $31.5 million repayment of the mortgage loan encumbering the Pike & Rose hotel in January 2021, partially offset by the $60.6 million payoff of the mortgage loan on The Shops at Sunset Place in December 2020 and the $3.6 million payoff of the mortgage loan on 29th Place, both in December 2020, and • an $11.1 million increase in dividends paid to shareholders due to an increase in the common share dividend rate and an increase in the number of common shares outstanding, partially offset by, • $510.4 million from the December 2020 redemptions of our $250.0 million 2.55% unsecured senior notes and our $250.0 million 3.00% unsecured senior notes, with a make-whole premium of $10.4 million, 46 • $73.8 million increase in net proceeds from the issuance of 1.6 million common shares under our ATM program for net proceeds of $172.7 million (see Note 8 to our consolidated financial statements for additional details on these transactions), as compared to 1.1 million common shares for net proceeds of $98.8 million in 2020, and • a $10.8 million decrease in distributions to and redemptions of noncontrolling interests primarily due to the 2020 acquisition of one of our partner's interests in the partnership that owns our Plaza El Segundo property for $7.3 million. Cash Requirements The following table provides a summary of material cash requirements comprising our fixed, noncancelable obligations as of December 31, 2021: _____________________ (1) The weighted average interest rate on our fixed and variable rate debt is 3.3% as of December 31, 2021. (2) The weighted average interest rate on the fixed and variable rate debt related to our unconsolidated real estate partnerships is 4.24% as of December 31, 2021. (3) This includes minimum rental payments related to both finance and operating leases. (4) This includes the liability related to the sale under threat of condemnation at San Antonio Center as further discussed in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements. In addition to the amounts set forth in the table above and other liquidity requirements previously discussed, the following potential commitments exist: (a) Under the terms of the Congressional Plaza partnership agreement, a minority partner has the right to require us and the other minority partner to purchase its 26.63% interest in Congressional Plaza at the interest’s then-current fair market value. If the other minority partner defaults in their obligation, we must purchase the full interest. Based on management’s current estimate of fair market value as of December 31, 2021, our estimated liability upon exercise of the put option would range from approximately $67 million to $71 million. (b) Under the terms of various other partnership agreements, the partners have the right to exchange their operating partnership units for cash or the same number of our common shares, at our option. As of December 31, 2021, a total of 666,831 downREIT operating partnership units are outstanding. (c) Two of the members in Plaza El Segundo have the right to require us to purchase their 10.0% and 11.8% ownership interests at the interests' then-current fair market value. If the members fail to exercise their put options, we have the right to purchase each of their interests on or after December 30, 2026 at fair market value.  Based on management’s current estimate of fair market value as of December 31, 2021, our estimated maximum liability upon exercise of the put option would range from approximately $25 million to $28 million. (d) The other member in The Grove at Shrewsbury and Brook 35 has the right to require us to purchase all of its approximately 4.1% interest in The Grove at Shrewsbury and approximately 6.5% interest in Brook 35 at the interests' then-current fair market value. Based on management's current estimate of fair market value as of December 31, 2021, our estimated maximum liability upon exercise of the put option would range from $6 million to $7 million. (e) Effective September 18, 2023, the other member in Hoboken has the right to require us to purchase all of its 10% ownership interest at the interest's then-current fair market value. Based on management's current estimate of fair market value as of December 31, 2021, our estimated maximum liability upon exercise of the put option would range from $9 million to $10 million. 47 (f) Effective June 14, 2026, the other member in Cambelback Colonnade and Hilton Village has the right to require us to purchase all of its 2.0% ownership interest at the interest's then-current fair market value. Based on management's current estimate of fair value as of December 31, 2021, our estimated maximum liability upon exercise of the put option would range from $4 million to $5 million. (g) Effective June 1, 2029, the other member in Grossmont Center has the right to require us to purchase all of its 40.0% ownership interest at the  interest's then-current fair market value. Based on management's current estimate of fair value as of December 31, 2021, our estimated maximum liability upon exercise of the put option would range from $68 million to $73 million. (h) At December 31, 2021, we had letters of credit outstanding of approximately $4.8 million. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements At December 31, 2021, we have two real estate related equity method investments with total debt outstanding of $79.8 million, of which our share is $28.6 million. Our investment in these ventures at December 31, 2021 was $8.9 million. Other than the items disclosed in the Cash Requirements table, we have no off-balance sheet arrangements as of December 31, 2021 that are reasonably likely to have a current or future material effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, cash requirements, or capital resources. 48 Debt Financing Arrangements The following is a summary of our total debt outstanding as of December 31, 2021: _____________________ 1) On November 26, 2019, we entered into two interest rate swap agreements that fix the interest rate on the mortgage loan at 3.67%. 2) The interest rates on these mortgages range from 3.91% to 5.00%. 3) This mortgage loan has a fixed interest rate, however, the rate resets every five years until maturity. The current interest rate is fixed until July 1, 2022, and the loan is prepayable at par anytime after this date. 4) The maximum amount drawn under our revolving credit facility during 2021 was $150.0 million and the weighted average effective interest rate on borrowings under our revolving credit facility, before amortization of debt fees, was 0.9%. Our revolving credit facility, unsecured term loan, and other debt agreements include financial and other covenants that may limit our operating activities in the future. As of December 31, 2021, we were in compliance with all of the financial and other covenants related to our revolving credit facility, term loan, and senior notes. Additionally, we were in compliance with all of the financial and other covenants that could trigger a loan default on our mortgage loans. If we were to breach any of these financial and other covenants and did not cure the breach within an applicable cure period, our lenders could require us to repay 49 the debt immediately and, if the debt is secured, could immediately begin proceedings to take possession of the property securing the loan. Many of our debt arrangements, including our public notes and our revolving credit facility, are cross-defaulted, which means that the lenders under those debt arrangements can put us in default and require immediate repayment of their debt if we breach and fail to cure a default under certain of our other debt obligations. As a result, any default under our debt covenants could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, our results of operations, our ability to meet our obligations and the market value of our shares. Our organizational documents do not limit the level or amount of debt that we may incur. The following is a summary of our scheduled principal repayments as of December 31, 2021: _____________________ 1) Our $300.0 million term loan matures on April 16, 2024, plus two one-year extensions, at our option. 2) Our $1.0 billion revolving credit facility matures on January 19, 2024, plus two six-month extensions at our option. As of December 31, 2021, there was no outstanding balance under this credit facility. 3) The total debt maturities differ from the total reported on the consolidated balance sheet due to the unamortized net debt issuance costs and premium/discount on mortgage loans, notes payable, and senior notes as of December 31, 2021. Interest Rate Hedging We may use derivative instruments to manage exposure to variable interest rate risk. We generally enter into interest rate swaps to manage our exposure to variable interest rate risk and treasury locks to manage the risk of interest rates rising prior to the issuance of debt. We enter into derivative instruments that qualify as cash flow hedges and do not enter into derivative instruments for speculative purposes. Interest rate swaps associated with cash flow hedges are recorded at fair value on a recurring basis. Effectiveness of cash flow hedges is assessed both at inception and on an ongoing basis. The effective portion of changes in fair value of the interest rate swaps associated with cash flow hedges is recorded in other comprehensive income (loss) which is included in "accumulated other comprehensive loss" on the balance sheet and statement of shareholders' equity. Cash flow hedges become ineffective if critical terms of the hedging instrument and the debt instrument do not perfectly match such as notional amounts, settlement dates, reset dates, calculation period and LIBOR rate. In addition, the default risk of the counterparty is evaluated by monitoring the credit worthiness of the counterparty which includes reviewing debt ratings and financial performance. If a cash flow hedge is deemed ineffective, the ineffective portion of changes in fair value of the interest rate swaps associated with cash flow hedges is recognized in earnings in the period affected. As of December 31, 2021, we have two interest rate swap agreements that effectively fix the interest rate on a mortgage payable associated with our Hoboken portfolio at 3.67%. Our Assembly Row hotel joint venture is also a party to two interest rate swap agreements that effectively fix their debt at 5.206%. All swaps were designated and qualify as cash flow hedges. Hedge ineffectiveness has not impacted our earnings in 2021, 2020 and 2019. REIT Qualification We intend to maintain our qualification as a REIT under Section 856(c) of the Code. As a REIT, we generally will not be subject to corporate federal income taxes on income we distribute to our shareholders as long as we satisfy certain technical requirements of the Code, including the requirement to distribute at least 90% of our taxable income to our shareholders. 50 Funds From Operations Funds from operations (“FFO”) is a supplemental non-GAAP financial measure of real estate companies’ operating performance. The National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (“NAREIT”) defines FFO as follows: net income, computed in accordance with U.S. GAAP, plus real estate related depreciation and amortization, and excluding gains and losses on the sale of real estate or changes in control, net of tax, and impairment write-downs of certain real estate assets and investments in entities when the impairment is directly attributable to decreases in the value of depreciable real estate held by the entity. We compute FFO in accordance with the NAREIT definition, and we have historically reported our FFO available for common shareholders in addition to our net income and net cash provided by operating activities. It should be noted that FFO: • does not represent cash flows from operating activities in accordance with GAAP (which, unlike FFO, generally reflects all cash effects of transactions and other events in the determination of net income); • should not be considered an alternative to net income as an indication of our performance; and • is not necessarily indicative of cash flow as a measure of liquidity or ability to fund cash needs, including the payment of dividends. We consider FFO available for common shareholders a meaningful, additional measure of operating performance primarily because it excludes the assumption that the value of the real estate assets diminishes predictably over time, as implied by the historical cost convention of GAAP and the recording of depreciation. We use FFO primarily as one of several means of assessing our operating performance in comparison with other REITs. Comparison of our presentation of FFO to similarly titled measures for other REITs may not necessarily be meaningful due to possible differences in the application of the NAREIT definition used by such REITs. An increase or decrease in FFO available for common shareholders does not necessarily result in an increase or decrease in aggregate distributions because our Board of Trustees is not required to increase distributions on a quarterly basis. However, we must distribute at least 90% of our annual taxable income to remain qualified as a REIT. Therefore, a significant increase in FFO will generally require an increase in distributions to shareholders although not necessarily on a proportionate basis. The reconciliation of net income to FFO available for common shareholders is as follows: _____________________ (1) For the year ended December 31, 2019, dividends on our Series 1 preferred stock were not deducted in the calculation of FFO available to common shareholders, as the related shares were dilutive and included in "weighted average common shares, diluted." (2) For the year ended December 31, 2020, FFO available for common shareholders includes a $11.2 million charge related to early extinguishment of debt. If this charge was excluded, our FFO available for common shareholders for 2020 would have been $345.0 million, and FFO available for common shareholders, per diluted share would have been $4.52. For the year ended December 31, 2019, FFO available for common shareholders includes an $11.9 million charge relating to the buyout of a lease at Assembly Square Marketplace. If this charge was excluded, our FFO 51 available for common shareholders for 2019 would have been $477.7 million, and FFO available for common shareholders, per diluted share would have been $6.33. (3) The weighted average common shares used to compute FFO per diluted common share includes operating partnership units that were excluded from the computation of diluted EPS. Conversion of these operating partnership units is dilutive in the computation of FFO per diluted common share but is anti-dilutive for the computation of diluted EPS for the periods presented.