********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, Section 21E of the Exchange Act and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Also, documents that we “incorporate by reference” into this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including documents that we subsequently file with the SEC will contain forward-looking statements. When we refer to forward-looking statements or information, sometimes we use words such as “may,” “will,” “could,” “should,” “plans,” “intends,” “expects,” “believes,” “estimates,” “anticipates” and “continues.” In particular, the below risk factors describe forward-looking information. The risk factors describe risks that may affect these statements but are not all-inclusive, particularly with respect to possible future events. Many things can happen that can cause actual results to be different from those we describe. These factors include, but are not limited to the following: Risk Factors Related to our Real Estate Investments and Operations Revenue from our properties may be reduced or limited if the retail operations of our tenants are not successful. Revenue from our properties depends primarily on the ability of our tenants to pay the full amount of rent and other charges due under their leases on a timely basis. Some of our leases provide for the payment, in addition to base rent, of additional rent above the base amount according to a specified percentage of the gross sales generated by the tenants and generally provide for reimbursement of real estate taxes and expenses of operating the property. Economic, legal, and/or competitive conditions, as well as COVID-19, may impact the success of our tenants’ retail operations and therefore the amount of rent and expense reimbursements we receive from our tenants. Any reduction in our tenants' abilities to pay base rent, percentage rent, or other charges on a timely basis, including the closing of stores prior to the end of the lease term or the filing by any of our tenants for bankruptcy protection, will adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In the event of default by a tenant, we may experience delays and unexpected costs in enforcing our rights as landlord under lease terms, which may also adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. Our net income depends on the success and continued presence of our “anchor” tenants. Our net income could be adversely affected in the event of a downturn in the business, or the bankruptcy or insolvency, of any anchor store or anchor tenant. Anchor tenants generally occupy large amounts of square footage, pay a significant portion of the total rents at a property and contribute to the success of other tenants by drawing significant numbers of customers to a property. The closing of one or more anchor stores at a property could adversely affect that property and result in lease terminations by, or reductions in rent from, other tenants whose leases may permit termination or rent reduction in those circumstances or whose own operations may suffer as a result. Over the past several years, we have seen higher levels of anchor turnover and closings in some markets, which has caused an oversupply of larger retail spaces. Therefore, tenant demand for certain of our anchor spaces may decrease and as a result, we may see an increase in vacancy and/or a decrease in rents for those spaces that could have a negative impact to our net income. As of December 31, 2020, our anchor tenant space is 96.2% leased and 94.1% occupied. A shift in retail shopping from brick and mortar stores to online shopping may have an adverse impact on our cash flow, financial condition and results of operations. Many retailers operating brick and mortar stores have made online sales a vital piece of their business. The shift to online shopping may cause declines in brick and mortar sales generated by certain of our tenants and may cause certain of our tenants to reduce the size or number of their retail locations in the future. This risk is partially mitigated by our strategy of maintaining a diverse portfolio of retail properties. The trend of retailers utilizing brick and mortar locations for ‘showroom’ and on-line sales distribution purposes (particularly at shopping centers in densely populated areas like ours) may further mitigate this risk. However, there can be no assurance that our shopping centers will not be further impacted by the shift to online shopping. As a result, our cash flow, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. 8 We have properties that are geographically concentrated, and adverse economic or real estate market declines in these areas could have a material adverse effect on us. As of December 31, 2020, our tenants operated in 11 states and the District of Columbia. Any adverse situation that disproportionately affects the the markets where our properties are concentrated may have a magnified adverse effect on our portfolio. Refer to “Properties” (Item 2 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K) for additional discussion of the geographic concentration. Real estate markets are subject to economic downturns, as they have been in the past, and we cannot predict how economic conditions will impact this market in both the short and long term. Declines in the economy or a decline in the real estate market in these states could hurt our financial performance and the value of our properties. Factors that may negatively affect economic conditions in these states include: • business layoffs or downsizing; • industry slowdowns; • increased business restrictions due to health crises • relocations of businesses; • changing demographics; • increased telecommuting and use of alternative work places; • infrastructure quality; • any oversupply of, or reduced demand for, real estate; • concessions or reduced rental rates under new leases for properties where tenants defaulted; and • increased operating costs including insurance premiums and real estate taxes. We may be unable to collect balances due from tenants that file for bankruptcy protection. If a tenant or lease guarantor files for bankruptcy, we may not be able to collect all pre-petition amounts owed by that party. In addition, a tenant that files for bankruptcy protection may terminate our lease in which event we would have a general unsecured claim that would likely be for less than the full amount owed to us for the remainder of the lease term, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We may experience difficulty or delay in renewing leases or re-leasing space. We derive most of our revenue directly or indirectly from rent received from our tenants. We are subject to the risks that, upon expiration or termination of leases, whether by their terms, as a result of a tenant bankruptcy, general economic conditions or otherwise, leases for space in our properties may not be renewed, space may not be re-leased, or the terms of renewal or re-lease, including the cost of required renovations or concessions to tenants, may be less favorable than current lease terms and may include decreases in rental rates. As a result, our net income could be reduced. Our development activities have inherent risks. The ground-up development of improvements on real property, as opposed to the renovation and redevelopment of existing improvements, presents substantial risks. We generally do not look to acquire raw land for future development; however, we do intend to complete the development and construction of future phases of projects we already own. We may undertake development of these and other projects on our own or bring in third parties if it is justifiable on a risk-adjusted return basis. We may also choose to delay completion of a project if market conditions do not allow an appropriate return. If conditions arise and we are not able or decide not to complete a project or if the expected cash flows of our project do not exceed the book value, an impairment of the project may be required. If additional phases of any of our existing projects or if any new projects are not successful, it may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. In addition to the risks associated with real estate investment in general, as described elsewhere and the specific risks above, the risks associated with our remaining development activities include: • contractor changes may delay the completion of development projects and increase overall costs; • significant time lag between commencement and stabilization subjects us to greater risks due to fluctuations in the general economy; • delivery of residential product into uncertain residential environments may result in lower rents or longer time periods to reach economic stabilization; • substantial amount of our investment is related to infrastructure and the overall value of the project may be negatively impacted if we do not complete subsequent phases; • failure or inability to obtain construction or permanent financing on favorable terms; • expenditure of money and time on projects that may never be completed; 9 • difficulty securing key anchor or other tenants may impact occupancy rates and projected revenue; • inability to achieve projected rental rates or anticipated pace of lease-up; • higher than estimated construction or operating costs, including labor and material costs; and • possible delay in completion of a project because of a number of factors, including COVID-19, weather, labor disruptions, construction delays or delays in receipt of zoning or other regulatory approvals, acts of terror or other acts of violence, or acts of God (such as fires, earthquakes or floods). Redevelopments and acquisitions may fail to perform as expected. Our investment strategy includes the redevelopment and acquisition of high quality, retail focused properties in densely populated areas with high average household incomes and significant barriers to adding competitive retail supply. The redevelopment and acquisition of properties entail risks that include the following, any of which could adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to meet our obligations: • our estimate of the costs to improve, reposition or redevelop a property may prove to be too low, or the time we estimate to complete the improvement, repositioning or redevelopment may be too short. As a result, the property may fail to achieve the returns we have projected, either temporarily or for a longer period; • we may not be able to identify suitable properties to acquire or may be unable to complete the acquisition of the properties we identify; • we may not be able to integrate an acquisition into our existing operations successfully; • properties we redevelop or acquire may fail to achieve the occupancy or rental rates we project, within the time frames we project, at the time we make the decision to invest, which may result in the properties’ failure to achieve the returns we projected; • our pre-acquisition evaluation of the physical condition of each new investment may not detect certain defects or identify necessary repairs until after the property is acquired, which could significantly increase our total acquisition costs or decrease cash flow from the property; and • our investigation of a property or building prior to our acquisition, and any representations we may receive from the seller of such building or property, may fail to reveal various liabilities, which could reduce the cash flow from the property or increase our acquisition cost. Our performance and value are subject to general risks associated with the real estate industry. Our economic performance and the value of our real estate assets, and consequently, the value of our investments, are subject to the risk that if our properties do not generate revenues sufficient to meet our operating expenses, including debt service and capital expenditures, our cash flow and ability to pay distributions to our shareholders will be adversely affected. As a real estate company, we are susceptible to the following real estate industry risks: • economic downturns in general, or in the areas where our properties are located; • adverse changes in local real estate market conditions, such as an oversupply or reduction in demand; • changes in tenant preferences that reduce the attractiveness of our properties to tenants; • zoning or regulatory restrictions; • decreases in market rental rates; • weather conditions that may increase or decrease energy costs and other weather-related expenses; • costs associated with the need to periodically repair, renovate and re-lease space; and • increases in the cost of adequate maintenance, insurance and other operating costs, including real estate taxes, associated with one or more properties, which may occur even when circumstances such as market factors and competition cause a reduction in revenues from one or more properties, although real estate taxes typically do not increase upon a reduction in such revenues. Each of these risks could result in decreases in market rental rates and increases in vacancy rates, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation. Many real estate costs are fixed, even if income from our properties decreases. Our financial results depend primarily on leasing space in our properties to tenants on terms favorable to us. Costs associated with real estate investment, such as real estate taxes, insurance and maintenance costs, generally are not reduced even when a property is not fully occupied, rental rates decrease, or other circumstances cause a reduction in income from the property. As a result, cash flow from the operations of our properties may be reduced if a tenant does not pay its rent or we are unable to rent our properties on favorable terms. Under those circumstances, we might not be able to enforce our rights as landlord without delays and may incur substantial legal costs. Additionally, new properties that we may acquire or redevelop may not produce any significant revenue immediately, and the cash flow from existing operations may be insufficient to pay the operating expenses and debt service associated with such new properties until they are fully occupied. 10 Competition may limit our ability to purchase new properties and generate sufficient income from tenants. Numerous commercial developers and real estate companies compete with us in seeking tenants for our existing properties and properties for acquisition. This competition may: • reduce properties available for acquisition; • increase the cost of properties available for acquisition; • reduce rents payable to us; • interfere with our ability to attract and retain tenants; • lead to increased vacancy rates at our properties; and • adversely affect our ability to minimize expenses of operation. Retailers at our properties also face increasing competition from online retailers, outlet stores, discount shopping clubs and other forms of sales and marketing of goods, such as direct mail. This competition could contribute to lease defaults and insolvency of tenants. If we are unable to continue to attract appropriate retail tenants to our properties, or to purchase new properties in our geographic markets, it could materially affect our ability to generate net income, service our debt and make distributions to our shareholders. We may be unable to sell properties when appropriate because real estate investments are illiquid. Real estate investments generally cannot be sold quickly. In addition, there are some limitations under federal income tax laws applicable to real estate and to REITs in particular that may limit our ability to sell our assets. We may not be able to alter our portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions including being unable to sell a property at a return we believe is appropriate due to the economic environment. Our inability to respond quickly to adverse changes in the performance of our investments could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our obligations and make distributions to our shareholders. We may have limited flexibility in dealing with our jointly owned investments. Our organizational documents do not limit the amount of funds that we may invest in properties and assets owned jointly with other persons or entities. As of December 31, 2020, we held 15 predominantly retail real estate projects jointly with other persons in addition to properties owned in a “downREIT” structure. Additionally, as of December 31, 2020, we owned an interest in the joint ventures that own the hotel components of Pike & Rose and Assembly Row. On January 4, 2021, we acquired our partner's 20% interest in our joint venture arrangement related to the Pike & Rose hotel. We may make additional joint investments in the future. Our existing and future joint investments may subject us to special risks, including the possibility that our partners or co-investors might become bankrupt, that those partners or co-investors might have economic or other business interests or goals which are unlike or incompatible with our business interests or goals, that those partners or co-investors might be in a position to take action contrary to our suggestions or instructions, or in opposition to our policies or objectives, and that disputes may develop with our joint venture partners over decisions affecting the property or the joint venture, which may result in litigation or arbitration or some other form of dispute resolution. Although as of December 31, 2020, we held the controlling interests in all of our existing co-investments (except the hotel investments discussed above and the investment in the La Alameda shopping center acquired in 2017), we generally must obtain the consent of the co-investor or meet defined criteria to sell or to finance these properties. Joint ownership gives a third party the opportunity to influence the return we can achieve on some of our investments and may adversely affect our ability to make distributions to our shareholders. We may also be liable for the actions of our co-investors. Our insurance coverage on our properties may be inadequate. We currently carry comprehensive insurance on all of our properties, including insurance for liability, fire, flood, earthquake, environmental matters, rental loss and acts of terrorism. All of these policies contain coverage limitations. We believe these coverages are of the types and amounts customarily obtained for or by an owner of similar types of real property assets located in the areas where our properties are located. We intend to obtain similar insurance coverage on subsequently acquired properties. The availability of insurance coverage may decrease and the prices for insurance may increase as a consequence of significant losses incurred by the insurance industry and other factors outside our control. As a result, we may be unable to renew or duplicate our current insurance coverage in adequate amounts or at reasonable prices. In addition, insurance companies may no longer offer coverage against certain types of losses, such as losses due to terrorist acts, pandemics, and toxic mold, or, if offered, the expense of obtaining these types of insurance may not be justified. We therefore may cease to have insurance coverage against certain types of losses and/or there may be decreases in the limits of insurance available. If an uninsured loss or a loss in excess of our insured limits occurs, we could lose all or a portion of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property, but still remain obligated for any mortgage debt or other financial 11 obligations related to the property. We cannot guarantee that material losses in excess of insurance proceeds will not occur in the future. If any of our properties were to experience a catastrophic loss, it could seriously disrupt our operations, delay revenue and result in large expenses to repair or rebuild the property. Also, due to inflation, changes in codes and ordinances, environmental considerations and other factors, it may not be feasible to use insurance proceeds to replace a building after it has been damaged or destroyed. Further, we may be unable to collect insurance proceeds if our insurers are unable to pay or contest a claim. Events such as these could adversely affect our results of operations and our ability to meet our obligations, including distributions to our shareholders. Natural disasters, climate change and health crises, including the COVID-19 pandemic, could have an adverse impact on our cash flow and operating results. Climate change may add to the unpredictability and frequency of natural disasters and severe weather conditions and create additional uncertainty as to future trends and exposures. Certain of our operations are located in areas that are subject to natural disasters and severe weather conditions such as hurricanes, earthquakes, droughts, snow storms, floods and fires.  The impact of climate change or the occurrence of natural disasters can delay new development projects, increase investment costs to repair or replace damaged properties, increase operating costs, create additional investment costs to make improvements to existing properties to comply with climate change regulations, increase future property insurance costs, and negatively impact the tenant demand for space.  If insurance is unavailable to us or is unavailable on acceptable terms, or if our insurance is not adequate to cover business interruption or losses from these events, our earnings, liquidity or capital resources could be adversely affected. In addition, our business is subject to risks related to the effects of public health crises, epidemics and pandemics, including the COVID-19 pandemic. Such events could inhibit global, national and local economic activity; adversely affect trading activity in securities markets, which could negatively impact the trading prices of our common shares and debt securities and our ability to access the securities markets as a source of liquidity; adversely affect our tenants’ financial condition by limiting foot traffic and staffing at their businesses, which could affect their ability to pay rent and willingness to make new leasing commitments; reduce our cash flow, which could impact our ability to pay dividends at the current rate and in the current format or at all or to service our debt; temporarily or permanently reduce the demand for retail or office space; interfere with our business operations by requiring our personnel to work remotely; increase the frequency of cyber-attacks; disrupt supply chains that could be important in our development and redevelopment activities; interfere with potential purchases and sales of properties; impact our ability to pay dividends at the current rate and in the current format or at all; and have other direct and indirect effects that are difficult to predict. Such risks depend upon the nature and severity of the public health concern, as well as the extent and duration of government-mandated orders and personal decisions to limit travel, economic activity and personal interaction, none of which can be predicted with confidence. In particular, we cannot predict the duration of stay-at-home and other government orders instituted in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, which vary by jurisdiction, or the pandemics' short and long term economic effects, each of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. An increased focus on metrics and reporting related to corporate responsibility, specifically related to environmental, social and governance ("ESG") factors, may impose additional costs and expose us to new risks. Investors and other stakeholders have become more focused on understanding how companies address a variety of ESG factors. Many of those investors and shareholders look to ESG rating systems that have been developed by third party groups to allow comparisons between companies on ESG factors as they evaluate investment decisions as well as to company disclosures.  Although we participate in many of these ratings systems and generally score relatively well in those in which we do participate, we do not participate in, and would not necessarily score well in, all of the available ratings systems. Further, the criteria used in these ratings systems change frequently, and we cannot guaranty that we will be able to score well as criteria change. We supplement our participation in ratings systems with corporate disclosures of our ESG activities but many investors and stakeholders may look for specific disclosures that we do not provide. Failure to participate in certain of the third party ratings systems, failure to score well in those ratings systems or failure to provide certain ESG disclosures could result in reputational harm when investors or others compare us against similar companies in our industry and could cause certain investors to be unwilling to invest in our stock which could adversely impact our ability to raise capital. For more information about the Trust's Corporate Responsibility initiatives, see Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Corporate Responsibility." Risk Factors Related to our Funding Strategies and Capital Structure The amount of debt we have and the restrictions imposed by that debt could adversely affect our business and financial condition. 12 As of December 31, 2020, we had approximately $4.3 billion of debt outstanding. Of that outstanding debt, approximately $486.0 million was secured by all or a portion of 11 of our real estate projects. As of December 31, 2020, approximately 90.7% of our debt is fixed rate or is fixed via interest rate swap agreements, which includes all of our property secured debt and our unsecured senior notes. Our organizational documents do not limit the level or amount of debt that we may incur. The amount of our debt outstanding from time to time could have important consequences to our shareholders. For example, it could: • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, thereby reducing funds available for operations, property acquisitions, redevelopments and other appropriate business opportunities that may arise in the future; • limit our ability to make distributions on our outstanding common shares and preferred shares; • make it difficult to satisfy our debt service requirements; • require us to dedicate increased amounts of our cash flow from operations to payments on debt upon refinancing or on our variable rate, unhedged debt, if interest rates rise; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the factors that affect the profitability of our business; • limit our ability to obtain any additional debt or equity financing we may need in the future for working capital, debt refinancing, capital expenditures, acquisitions, redevelopments or other general corporate purposes or to obtain such financing on favorable terms; and/or • limit our flexibility in conducting our business, which may place us at a disadvantage compared to competitors with less debt or debt with less restrictive terms. Our ability to make scheduled principal payments of, to pay interest on, or to refinance our indebtedness will depend primarily on our future performance, which to a certain extent is subject to economic, financial, competitive and other factors beyond our control. There can be no assurance that our business will continue to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt or meet our other cash needs. If we are unable to generate this cash flow from our business, we may be required to refinance all or a portion of our existing debt, sell assets or obtain additional financing to meet our debt obligations and other cash needs, including the payment of dividends required to maintain our status as a real estate investment trust. We cannot assure you that any such refinancing, sale of assets or additional financing would be possible on terms that we would find acceptable. We are obligated to comply with financial and other covenants pursuant to our debt obligations that could restrict our operating activities, and the failure to comply with such covenants could result in defaults that accelerate payment under our debt agreements. Our revolving credit facility, unsecured term loan, and certain series of notes include financial covenants that may limit our operating activities in the future. We are also required to comply with additional covenants that include, among other things, provisions: • relating to the maintenance of property securing a mortgage; • restricting our ability to pledge assets or create liens; • restricting our ability to incur additional debt; • restricting our ability to amend or modify existing leases at properties securing a mortgage; • restricting our ability to enter into transactions with affiliates; and • restricting our ability to consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets. As of December 31, 2020, we were in compliance with all of our default related financial covenants. If we were to breach any of our default related debt covenants, including the covenants listed above, and did not cure the breach within any applicable cure period, our lenders could require us to repay the debt immediately, and, if the debt is secured, could immediately begin proceedings to take possession of the property securing the loan. Many of our debt arrangements, including our public notes and our revolving credit facility, are cross-defaulted, which means that the lenders under those debt arrangements can put us in default and require immediate repayment of their debt if we breach and fail to cure a default under certain of our other debt obligations. As a result, any default under our debt covenants could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, our results of operations, our ability to meet our obligations and the market value of our shares. Adverse changes in our credit rating could affect our borrowing capacity and borrowing terms. Our credit worthiness is rated by nationally recognized credit rating agencies. The credit ratings assigned are based on our operating performance, liquidity and leverage ratios, financial condition and prospects, and other factors viewed by the credit rating agencies as relevant to our industry and the economic outlook in general. Our credit rating can affect the amount of capital we access, as well as the terms of certain existing and future financing we obtain. Since we depend on debt financing to fund the growth of our business, an adverse change in our credit rating, including actual changes in outlook, or even the initiation of review of our credit rating that could result in an adverse change, could have a material adverse effect on us. 13 Our ability to grow will be limited if we cannot obtain additional capital. Our growth strategy is focused on the redevelopment of properties we already own and the acquisition of additional properties. We believe that it will be difficult to fund our expected growth with cash from operating activities because, in addition to other requirements, we are generally required to distribute to our shareholders at least 90% of our taxable income each year to continue to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. As a result, we must rely primarily upon the availability of debt or equity capital, which may or may not be available on favorable terms or at all. Debt could include the sale of debt securities and mortgage loans from third parties. If economic conditions and conditions in the capital markets are not favorable at the time we need to raise capital, we may need to obtain capital on less favorable terms.  Additionally, we cannot guarantee that additional financing, refinancing or other capital will be available in the amounts we desire or on favorable terms. Our access to debt or equity capital depends on a number of factors, including the market’s perception of our growth potential and risk profile, our ability to pay dividends, and our current and potential future earnings. Depending on the outcome of these factors as well as the impact of the economic environment, we could experience delay or difficulty in implementing our growth strategy on satisfactory terms, or be unable to implement this strategy. Rising interest rates could adversely affect our cash flow and the market price of our outstanding debt and preferred shares. Of our $4.3 billion of debt outstanding as of December 31, 2020, approximately $456.5 million bears interest at a variable rate, of which, $400.0 million is our unsecured term loan that bears interest at a variable rate of LIBOR plus 135 basis points and $56.5 million in mortgages payable that bear interest at a variable rate of LIBOR plus 195 basis points and are effectively fixed through two interest rate swap agreements. We also have a $1.0 billion revolving credit facility, on which no balance was outstanding at December 31, 2020, that bears interest at LIBOR plus 77.5 basis points. We may borrow additional funds at variable interest rates in the future. Increases in interest rates would increase the interest expense on our variable rate debt and reduce our cash flow, which could adversely affect our ability to service our debt and meet our other obligations and also could reduce the amount we are able to distribute to our shareholders. We may enter into additional hedging arrangements or other transactions for all or a portion of our variable rate debt to limit our exposure to rising interest rates. However, the amounts we are required to pay under variable rate debt to which hedging or similar arrangements relate may increase in the event of non-performance by the counterparties to any such hedging arrangements. In addition, an increase in market interest rates may lead purchasers of our debt securities and preferred shares to demand a higher annual yield, which could adversely affect the market price of our outstanding debt securities and preferred shares and the cost and/or timing of refinancing or issuing additional debt securities or preferred shares. The phase-out of LIBOR could affect interest rates under our variable rate debt and interest rate swap arrangements. LIBOR is used as a reference rate for our revolving credit facility, certain mortgage payables, and in our interest rate swap arrangements. On July 27, 2017, the United Kingdom's Financial Conduct Authority announced it intends to stop compelling banks to submit rates for the calculation of LIBOR after 2021. On November 30, 2020, the ICE Benchmark Administration Limited announced its plan to extend the date that most U.S. LIBOR values would cease being computed and published from December 31, 2021 to June 30, 2023. The Federal Reserve Board and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York organized the Alternative Reference Rates Committee which identified the Secured Overnight Financing Rate ("SOFR") as its preferred alternative to U.S. dollar LIBOR in derivatives and other financial contracts. At this time, we can not predict the effect of any discontinuance, modification or other reforms to LIBOR, or if SOFR, or another alternative rate reference rate, attains market traction as a LIBOR replacement. As LIBOR phases out and ceases to exist, we will need to agree upon a benchmark replacement index with the bank, and as such the interest rate on our revolving credit facility and certain mortgage payables may change. The new rate may not be as favorable as those in effect prior to any LIBOR phase-out. Furthermore, the transition process may result in delays in funding, higher interest expense, additional expenses, and increased volatility in markets for instruments that currently rely on LIBOR, all of which could negatively impact our cash flow. Risk Factors Related to our REIT Status and Other Laws and Regulations Environmental laws and regulations could reduce the value or profitability of our properties. All real property and the operations conducted on real property are subject to federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations relating to hazardous materials, environmental protection and human health and safety.  Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, we and our tenants may be responsible for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances released on or in properties we own or operate, as well as certain other potential costs relating to hazardous or toxic substances (including governmental fines and injuries to persons and property). This liability may be imposed whether or not we knew about, or were responsible for, the presence of hazardous or toxic substances.  Further, the presence of contamination on our properties or the failure to properly remediate contamination at any of our properties may adversely affect 14 our ability to sell or lease those properties or to borrow funds by using those properties as collateral. The costs or liabilities could exceed the value of the affected real estate.  We are not aware of any environmental condition with respect to any of our properties that management believes would have a material adverse effect on our business, assets or results of operations taken as a whole. In addition, changes in government legislation and regulation on climate change could result in increased capital expenditures to improve the energy efficiency of our existing properties and could also require us to spend more on our development or redevelopment projects without a corresponding increase in revenues, which may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 could require us to take remedial steps with respect to existing or newly acquired properties. Our existing properties, as well as properties we may acquire, as commercial facilities, are required to comply with Title III of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990. Investigation of a property may reveal non-compliance with this Act. The requirements of this Act, or of other federal, state or local laws or regulations, also may change in the future and restrict further renovations of our properties with respect to access for disabled persons. Future compliance with this Act may require expensive changes to the properties. The revenues generated by our tenants could be negatively affected by various federal, state and local laws to which they are subject. We and our tenants are subject to a wide range of federal, state and local laws and regulations, such as local licensing requirements, consumer protection laws and state and local fire, life-safety and similar requirements that affect the use of the properties. The leases typically require that each tenant comply with all laws and regulations. Failure to comply could result in fines by governmental authorities, awards of damages to private litigants, or restrictions on the ability to conduct business on such properties. Non-compliance of this sort could reduce our revenues from a tenant, could require us to pay penalties or fines relating to any non-compliance, and could adversely affect our ability to sell or lease a property. Failure to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes would cause us to be taxed as a corporation, which would substantially reduce funds available for payment of distributions. We believe that we are organized and qualified as a REIT for federal income tax purposes and currently intend to operate in a manner that will allow us to continue to qualify as a REIT under the Code. However, we cannot assure you that we will remain qualified as such in the future. Qualification as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex Code provisions and applicable income tax regulations that have been issued under the Code. Certain facts and circumstances not entirely within our control may affect our ability to qualify as a REIT. For example, in order to qualify as a REIT, at least 95% of our gross income in any year must be derived from qualifying rents and certain other income. Satisfying this requirement could be difficult, for example, if defaults by tenants were to reduce the amount of income from qualifying rents. As a REIT, we must generally make annual distributions to shareholders of at least 90% of our taxable income. In addition, new legislation, new regulations, new administrative interpretations or new court decisions may significantly change the tax laws with respect to qualification as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences of such qualification. Any modification in the tax treatment of REITs could have a significant adverse impact to our net income. If we fail to qualify as a REIT: • we would not be allowed a deduction for distributions to shareholders in computing taxable income; • we would be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate rates; • unless we are entitled to relief under specific statutory provisions, we could not elect to be taxed as a REIT for four taxable years following the year during which we were disqualified; • we could be required to pay significant income taxes, which would substantially reduce the funds available for investment or for distribution to our shareholders for each year in which we failed or were not permitted to qualify; and • we would no longer be required by law to make any distributions to our shareholders. To maintain our status as a REIT, we limit the amount of shares any one shareholder can own. The Code imposes certain limitations on the ownership of the stock of a REIT. For example, not more than 50% in value of our outstanding shares of capital stock may be owned, directly or indirectly, by five or fewer individuals (as defined in the Code) during the last half of any taxable year. To protect our REIT status, our declaration of trust prohibits any one shareholder from 15 owning (actually or constructively) more than 9.8% in value of the outstanding common shares or of any class or series of outstanding preferred shares. The constructive ownership rules are complex. Shares of our capital stock owned, actually or constructively, by a group of related individuals and/or entities may be treated as constructively owned by one of those individuals or entities. As a result, the acquisition of less than 9.8% in value of the outstanding common shares and/or a class or series of preferred shares (or the acquisition of an interest in an entity that owns common shares or preferred shares) by an individual or entity could cause that individual or entity (or another) to own constructively more than 9.8% in value of the outstanding capital stock. If that happened, either the transfer of ownership would be void or the shares would be transferred to a charitable trust and then sold to someone who can own those shares without violating the 9.8% ownership limit. The Board of Trustees may waive these restrictions on a case-by-case basis. In addition, the Board of Trustees and two-thirds of our shareholders eligible to vote at a shareholder meeting may remove these restrictions if they determine it is no longer in our best interests to attempt to qualify, or to continue to qualify, as a REIT. The 9.8% ownership restrictions may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change of our control that might involve a premium price for the common shares or otherwise be in the shareholders’ best interest. Legislative, administrative, regulatory or other actions affecting REITs, including positions taken by the IRS, could have a material adverse effect on us and our investors. The rules dealing with U.S. federal income taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process, and by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) and the U.S. Department of the Treasury (“Treasury”). Changes to the tax laws or interpretations thereof by the IRS and the Treasury, with or without retroactive application, could materially and adversely affect us and our investors. In particular, additional technical corrections legislation and implementing regulations may be enacted or promulgated in response to the Tax Cuts and Job Acts of 2017 (the "Act"), and substantive legislative changes to the Act are also possible. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, multiple pieces of legislation have already been enacted, including the 2020 CARES Act, and there have also been significant issuances of regulatory and other guidance, and further legislative enactments and other IRS or Treasury action is possible. No prediction can be made as to the likelihood of passage of  new tax legislation or other provisions, or the direct or indirect effect on us and our shareholders. Accordingly, such new legislation, Treasury regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could significantly and negatively affect our ability to qualify to be taxed as a REIT and/or the U.S. federal income tax consequences to us and our investors of such qualification. Certain tax and anti-takeover provisions of our declaration of trust and bylaws may inhibit a change of our control. Certain provisions contained in our declaration of trust and bylaws and the Maryland General Corporation Law, as applicable to Maryland REITs, may discourage a third party from making a tender offer or acquisition proposal to us. If this were to happen, it could delay, deter or prevent a change in control or the removal of existing management. These provisions also may delay or prevent the shareholders from receiving a premium for their common shares over then-prevailing market prices. These provisions include: • the REIT ownership limit described above; • authorization of the issuance of our preferred shares with powers, preferences or rights to be determined by the Board of Trustees; • special meetings of our shareholders may be called only by the chairman of the board, the chief executive officer, the president, by one-third of the trustees or by shareholders possessing no less than 25% of all the votes entitled to be cast at the meeting; • the Board of Trustees, without a shareholder vote, can classify or reclassify unissued shares of beneficial interest, including the reclassification of common shares into preferred shares and vice-versa; • a two-thirds shareholder vote is required to approve some amendments to the declaration of trust; and • advance-notice requirements for proposals to be presented at shareholder meetings. In addition, if we elect to be governed by it in the future, the Maryland Control Share Acquisition Law could delay or prevent a change in control. Under Maryland law, unless a REIT elects not to be subject to this law, “control shares” acquired in a “control share acquisition” have no voting rights except to the extent approved by shareholders by a vote of two-thirds of the votes entitled to be cast on the matter, excluding shares owned by the acquirer and by officers or trustees who are employees of the REIT. “Control shares” are voting shares that would entitle the acquirer to exercise voting power in electing trustees within specified ranges of voting power. A “control share acquisition” means the acquisition of control shares, with some exceptions. Our bylaws state that the Maryland control share acquisition law will not apply to any acquisition by any person of our common shares. This bylaw provision may be repealed, in whole or in part, at any time, whether before or after an acquisition of control shares, by a vote of a majority of the shareholders entitled to vote, and, upon such repeal, may, to the extent provided by any successor bylaw, apply to any prior or subsequent control share acquisition. 16 We may be required to incur additional debt to qualify as a REIT. As a REIT, we must generally make annual distributions to shareholders of at least 90% of our taxable income. We are subject to income tax on amounts of undistributed taxable income and net capital gain. In addition, we would be subject to a 4% excise tax if we fail to distribute sufficient income to meet a minimum distribution test based on our ordinary income, capital gain and aggregate undistributed income from prior years. We intend to make distributions to shareholders to comply with the Code’s distribution provisions and to avoid federal income and excise tax. We may need to borrow funds to meet our distribution requirements because: • our income may not be matched by our related expenses at the time the income is considered received for purposes of determining taxable income; and • non-deductible capital expenditures, creation of reserves, or debt service requirements may reduce available cash but not taxable income. In these circumstances, we might have to borrow funds on terms we might otherwise find unfavorable and we may have to borrow funds even if our management believes the market conditions make borrowing financially unattractive. Current tax law also allows us to pay a portion of our distributions in shares instead of cash. General Risk Factors The market value of our debt and equity securities is subject to various factors that may cause significant fluctuations or volatility. As with other publicly traded securities, the market price of our debt and equity securities depends on various factors, which may change from time to time and/or may be unrelated to our financial condition, operating performance or prospects that may cause significant fluctuations or volatility in such prices. These factors include, among others: • general economic and financial market conditions; • level and trend of interest rates; • our ability to access the capital markets to raise additional capital; • the issuance of additional equity or debt securities; • changes in our funds from operations (“FFO”) or earnings estimates; • changes in our credit or analyst ratings; • our financial condition and performance; • market perception of our business compared to other REITs; and • market perception of REITs, in general, compared to other investment alternatives. We cannot assure you we will continue to pay dividends in the current composition or at historical rates. Our ability to continue to pay dividends on our common shares at historical rates or to increase our common share dividend rate, and our ability to pay preferred share dividends and service our debt securities, will depend on a number of factors, including, among others, the following: • our financial condition and results of future operations; • the performance by our tenants under their contractual lease agreements; • the terms of our loan covenants; and • our ability to acquire, finance, develop or redevelop and lease additional properties at attractive rates. If we do not maintain or increase, or if we change the composition of the dividend on our common shares, it could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common shares and other securities. Any preferred shares we may offer in the future may have a fixed dividend rate that would not increase with any increases in the dividend rate of our common shares. Conversely, payment of dividends on our common shares may be subject to payment in full of the dividends on any preferred shares and payment of interest on any debt securities we may offer. Loss of our key management could adversely affect performance and the value of our common shares. We are dependent on the efforts of our key management. Although we believe qualified replacements could be found for any departures of key executives, the loss of their services could adversely affect our performance and the value of our common shares. 17 We may adjust our business policies without shareholder approval. We may modify our approach to investment, financing, borrowing, and other operating strategies without shareholder approval. A change in the approach to any of these items could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, and the market price of our securities. Our current business plan focuses on our investment in high quality retail based properties that are typically neighborhood and community shopping centers or mixed-use properties, principally through redevelopments and acquisitions. If this business plan is not successful, it could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Given these uncertainties, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on any forward-looking statements that we make, including those in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Except as may be required by law, we make no promise to update any of the forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. You should carefully review the above risks and the risk factors. We face risks relating to cyber attacks that could cause loss of confidential information and other business disruptions. We rely extensively on information technology systems to process transactions and manage our business, and our business is at risk from and may be impacted by cyber attacks. These could include attempts to gain unauthorized access to our data and computer systems as well as attacks on third party's information technology systems that we rely on to provide important information technology services relating to key business functions, such as payroll. Attacks can be both individual and/or highly organized attempts by very sophisticated hacking organizations. We employ a number of measures to prevent, detect and mitigate these threats, which include password encryption, multi-factor authentication, frequent password change events, firewall detection systems, anti-virus software in-place, frequent backups, a redundant data system for core applications and penetration testing; however, there is no guarantee such efforts will be successful in preventing a cyber attack. A cyber attack could compromise the confidential information of our employees, tenants and vendors. A successful attack could disrupt and otherwise adversely affect our business operations.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

This section generally discusses 2020 and 2019 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2020 and 2019. Discussions of 2018 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2019 and 2018 that are not included in this Form 10-K can be found in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 10, 2020. Forward-Looking Statements Certain statements in this section or elsewhere in this report may be deemed “forward-looking statements”. See “Item 1A. Risk Factors” in this report for important information regarding these forward-looking statements and certain risk and uncertainties that may affect us. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto appearing in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this report. Overview We are an equity real estate investment trust ("REIT") specializing in the ownership, management, and redevelopment of high quality retail and mixed-use properties located primarily in densely populated and affluent communities in strategically selected metropolitan markets in the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic regions of the United States, California, and South Florida. As of December 31, 2020, we owned or had a majority interest in community and neighborhood shopping centers and mixed-use properties which are operated as 101 predominantly retail real estate projects comprising approximately 23.4 million square feet. In total, the real estate projects were 92.2% leased and 90.2% occupied at December 31, 2020. We have paid quarterly dividends to our shareholders continuously since our founding in 1962 and have increased our dividends per common share for 53 consecutive years. Summary Financial Information The following table includes select financial information that is helpful in understanding the trends in financial condition and the results of operations discussed throughout this Item 7. and “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” 30 (1) Property operating income is a non-GAAP measure. See "Results of Operations" in this Item 7. for further discussion. (2) Funds from operations "FFO" is a supplemental non-GAAP measure. See "Liquidity and Capital Resources" in this Item 7. for further discussion. (3)  EBITDA for Real Estate ("EBITDAre") is a non-GAAP measure that NAREIT defines as: net income computed in accordance with GAAP plus net interest expense, income tax expense, depreciation and amortization, gain or loss on sale of real estate, impairments of real estate, and adjustments to reflect the entity's share of EBITDAre of unconsolidated affiliates. We calculate EBITDAre consistent with the NAREIT definition. As EBITDA is a widely known and understood measure of performance, management believes EBITDAre represents an additional non-GAAP performance measure, independent of a company's capital structure that will provide investors with a uniform basis to measure the enterprise value of a company. EBITDAre also approximates a key performance measure in our debt covenants, but it should not be considered an alternative measure of operating results or cash flow from operations as determined in accordance with GAAP. The reconciliation of net income to EBITDAre for the periods presented is as follows: 31 (4)   Fixed charges consist of interest on borrowed funds (including capitalized interest), amortization of debt discount/ premiums and debt costs, costs related to the early extinguishment of debt, and the portion of rent expense representing an interest factor. Excluding the $11.2 million early extinguishment of debt charge from fixed charges in 2020, the ratio of EBITDAre to combined fixed charges and preferred share dividends is 2.9x. Excluding the $11.9 million charge related to the buyout of the Kmart lease at Assembly Square Marketplace in 2019, our ratio of EBITDAre to combined fixed charges and preferred share dividends remained 4.2x. Impacts of COVID-19 Pandemic We continue to monitor and address risks related to the COVID-19 pandemic. In March 2020, the World Health Organization characterized COVID-19 as a global pandemic and in response to the rapid spread of the virus, state, and local governments issued orders and recommendations to attempt to reduce the further spread of the disease. Such orders included shelter-in-place orders, travel restrictions, limitations on public gatherings, school closures, social distancing requirements and the closure of all but critical and essential businesses and services. These orders required closure of all of our corporate offices as non-essential businesses. Except for those employees who were critical to providing the necessary day-to-day property management functions required to keep our properties open and operating for essential businesses such as grocery stores and drug stores, and a few employees who were needed to carry out critical corporate functions, we transitioned our entire workforce to remote work in March 2020. Although some of our corporate offices have reopened with capacity limitations, approximately 75% of our workforce continues to work remotely on a regular basis. We have not laid off, furloughed, or terminated any employees nor have we modified the compensation of any or our employees as a result of COVID-19, and the transition to a largely remote workforce has not had any material adverse impact on our financial reporting systems, our internal controls, or disclosure controls and procedures. The government imposed restrictions also required a significant number of tenants who do business in our properties, but were considered non-essential, to close their operations or to significantly limit the amount of business they are able to conduct in their stores. These closures and restrictions have impacted the tenants’ ability to timely pay rent as required under our leases and also caused many tenants to close their business permanently. As a result, our cash flow and results of operations in 2020 were materially adversely impacted and our vacancy increased above historical levels. Although virtually all of our leases required the tenants to pay rent even while they were not operating, we entered into numerous agreements to abate, defer and/or restructure tenant rent payments for varying periods of time, all with the objective of collecting as much cash as reasonably possible and maintaining occupancy to the maximum extent. We believe those actions will position many of our tenants to be able to return to payment of contractual rent as soon as possible after the impacts from the pandemic have subsided. Given the impact to our cash flow caused by tenants not timely paying contractual rent, we took actions to improve our financial position and maximize our liquidity. Those actions included raising $1.1 billion in May 2020 through a $400.0 million term loan and the issuance of $700.0 million of senior unsecured notes, amending the covenants on our revolving credit facility to provide us operating flexibility during the expected period during which our cash flow will be impacted, and raising an additional $400.0 million of senior unsecured notes in October 2020. Throughout the last three quarters of 2020, we maintained levels of cash significantly in excess of the cash balances we have historically maintained which has adversely impacted our financial results; however, we believe that such action was prudent to position us with what we expect to be sufficient liquidity to allow us to continue fully operating until our operating revenues return to more typical levels. As of December 31, 2020, there is no outstanding balance on our $1.0 billion revolving credit facility, and we have cash and cash equivalents of $798.3 million. 32 Given the adverse impact on our cash flow, we did not commence any significant new capital projects during 2020 and we stopped, at least temporarily, portions of our capital spend that could be stopped. We did, however, continue investing in a number of our larger projects which were in the middle of construction and could not be stopped without causing material adverse financial impact to the company. Additional discussion of the impact of COVID-19 on our results in 2020 and long-term operations can be found throughout Item 7 and . Risk Factors. Corporate Responsibility We actively endeavor to operate and develop our properties in a sustainable, responsible, and effective manner with the objective being to drive long-term growth and aid in value creation for our shareholders, tenants, employees, and local communities. Our development activities have been heavily focused on owning, developing and operating properties that are certified under the U.S. Green Building Council’s® (“USGBC”) Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design™ (LEED®) rating system which serves as a third-party verification that a building or community was designed and built to mitigate its environmental footprint. We currently have 15 LEED certified buildings and our Pike & Rose project has achieved LEED for Neighborhood Development Stage 3 Gold certification. The COVID-19 pandemic has also increased our focus on owning, developing and operating healthier buildings. To that end, our new corporate headquarters space at our 909 Rose Avenue building has earned a Fitwel certification developed by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) together with the General Services Administration (GSA). This certification assesses a building’s impact on seven distinct categories related to overall health and well-being. These development efforts earned us the Sector Leader Development designation in 2020 from the Global Real Estate Environmental Sustainability Benchmark (“GRESB”) and enabled us to issue our first green bond in 2020, a $400.0 million offering that will be supported by certain of our LEED gold and silver certified buildings. See Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements. We are also committed to implementing sustainable business practices at our operating properties that focus on energy efficiency, water conservation and waste minimization. As an example, under our solar program that we started in 2012, we have installed on-site solar systems at 25 of our properties with a capacity of over 13 MW and we anticipate adding solar installations at several more of our properties over the next few years to further our ability to source energy from renewable sources. Our current capacity placed us in the top 5 among real estate companies for onsite capacity in the Solar Energy Industry Association’s annual Solar Means Business Report. We are also actively upgrading lighting at our properties with energy efficient LED lighting and installing electric vehicle car charging stations in numerous properties throughout our portfolio. Currently, we are evaluating the risks presented by climate change to help us better understand potential actions we could take to help mitigate our portfolio’s environmental footprint while protecting our long-term investments. We are also highly committed to our employees and fostering a work environment that promotes growth, development and personal well-being. Our four core values are accountability, excellence, innovation and integrity and we seek to attract and retain talented professionals who embrace those values. All of our efforts with respect to corporate responsibility are overseen by our Board of Trustees. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, referred to as “GAAP”, requires management to make estimates and assumptions that in certain circumstances affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities, and revenues and expenses. These estimates are prepared using management’s best judgment, after considering past and current events and economic conditions. In addition, information relied upon by management in preparing such estimates includes internally generated financial and operating information, external market information, when available, and when necessary, information obtained from consultations with third party experts. Actual results could differ from these estimates. A discussion of possible risks which may affect these estimates is included in “Item 1A. Risk Factors” of this report. Management considers an accounting estimate to be critical if changes in the estimate could have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. Our significant accounting policies are more fully described in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements; however, the most critical accounting policies, which involve the use of estimates and assumptions as to future uncertainties and, therefore, may result in actual amounts that differ from estimates, are as follows: Revenue Recognition and Accounts Receivable Our leases with our tenants are classified as operating leases. When collection of substantially all lease payments during the lease term is considered probable, the lease qualifies for accrual accounting. Lease payments are recognized on a straight-line 33 basis from the point in time when the tenant controls the space through the term of the related lease. Variable lease payments relating to percentage rent are recognized at the end of the lease year or earlier if we have determined the required sales level is achieved. Real estate tax and other cost reimbursements are recognized on an accrual basis over the periods in which the related expenditures are incurred. Many of our leases contain tenant options that enable the tenant to extend the term of the lease at expiration at pre-established rental rates that often include fixed rent increases, consumer price index adjustments or other market rate adjustments from the prior base rent. For a tenant to terminate its lease agreement prior to the end of the agreed term, we may require that they pay a fee to cancel the lease agreement. Lease termination fees are generally recognized on the termination date if the tenant has relinquished control of the space. When a lease is terminated early but the tenant continues to control the space under a modified lease agreement, the lease termination fee is generally recognized evenly over the remaining term of the modified lease agreement. Lease concessions (unrelated to the COVID-19 pandemic) are evaluated to determine whether the concession represents a modification of the original lease contract. Modifications generally result in a reassessment of the lease term and lease classification, and remeasurement of lease payments received. Remeasured lease payments are recognized on a straight-line basis over the remaining term of the modified lease contract. In April 2020, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued interpretive guidance relating to the accounting for lease concessions provided as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic that allows entities to treat the concession as if it was a part of the existing contract instead of applying lease modification accounting. This guidance is only applicable to the COVID-19 pandemic related lease concessions that do not result in a substantial increase in the rights of the lessor or the obligations of the lessee. We have elected this option relating to qualifying rent deferral and rent abatement agreements. For qualifying lease modifications with rent deferrals, this results in no change to our revenue recognition but an increase in the lease receivable balance until the deferred rent has been repaid. For qualifying lease modifications that include rent abatement concessions, this results in a direct reduction of rental income in the current period. As of December 31, 2020, we have entered into rent deferral agreements and rent abatement agreements related to the COVID-19 pandemic representing approximately $36 million and $35 million, respectively, of rent otherwise owed during the year ended December 31, 2020, and continue negotiations with other tenants. When collection of substantially all lease payments during the lease term is not considered probable, total lease revenue is limited to the lesser of revenue recognized under accrual accounting or cash received. Determining the probability of collection of substantially all lease payments during a lease term requires significant judgment. This determination is impacted by numerous factors including our assessment of the tenant’s credit worthiness, economic conditions, tenant sales productivity in that location, historical experience with the tenant and tenants operating in the same industry, future prospects for the tenant and the industry in which it operates, and the length of the lease term. If leases currently classified as probable are subsequently reclassified as not probable, any outstanding lease receivables (including straight-line rent receivables) would be written-off with a corresponding decrease in rental income. For example, in the event that our collectibility determinations were not accurate and we were required to write off additional receivables equaling 1% of rental income, our rental income and net income would decrease by $8.3 million. If leases currently classified as not probable are subsequently changed to probable, any lease receivables (including straight-line rent receivables) are re-instated with a corresponding increase to rental income. Since March 2020, federal, state, and local governments have taken various actions to mitigate the spread of COVID-19. This includes initially ordering closures of nonessential business and ordering residents to generally stay at home, subsequent phased re-openings, and during the fourth quarter of 2020, additional closures and capacity limitations as infection levels increased in certain areas. These actions, along with the general concern over the spread of COVID-19, have resulted in many of our tenants temporarily or even permanently closing their businesses, and for some, it has impacted their ability to pay rent. As a result, we revised our collectibility assumptions for many of our tenants most significantly impacted by COVID-19. Accordingly, during the year ended December 31, 2020, we recognized collectibility related adjustments of $106.6 million. This includes changes in our collectibility assessments from probable to not probable, disputed rents, and any rent abatements directly related to COVID-19, as well as the write-off of $12.7 million of straight-line rent receivables primarily related to tenants changed to a cash basis of revenue recognition during the year ended December 31, 2020. As of December 31, 2020, the revenue from approximately 35% of our tenants (based on total number of commercial leases) is being recognized on a cash basis. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, our straight-line rent receivables balance was $103.3 million and $100.3 million, respectively, and is included in "accounts and notes receivable, net" on our consolidated balance sheet. Other revenue recognition policies When we enter into a transaction to sell a property or a portion of a property, we evaluate the recognition of the sale under ASC 610-20, "Other Income - Gains and Losses from the Derecognition of Nonfinancial Assets." In accordance with ASC 610-20, we apply the guidance in ASC 606, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers," to determine whether and when control transfers and how to measure the associated gain or loss. We determine the transaction price based on the consideration we expect to receive. Variable consideration is included in the transaction price to the extent it is probable that a significant reversal of a gain recognized will not occur. We analyze the risk of a significant gain reversal and if necessary limit the amount of 34 variable consideration recognized in order to mitigate this risk. The estimation of variable consideration requires us to make assumptions and apply significant judgment. Real Estate The nature of our business as an owner, redeveloper and operator of retail shopping centers and mixed-use properties means that we invest significant amounts of capital. Depreciation and maintenance costs relating to our properties constitute substantial costs for us as well as the industry as a whole. We capitalize real estate investments and depreciate them on a straight-line basis in accordance with GAAP and consistent with industry standards based on our best estimates of the assets’ physical and economic useful lives. We periodically review the estimated lives of our assets and implement changes, as necessary, to these estimates and, therefore, to our depreciation rates. These reviews may take into account such factors as the historical retirement and replacement of our assets, expected redevelopments, and general economic and real estate factors. Certain events, such as unforeseen competition or changes in customer shopping habits, could substantially alter our assumptions regarding our ability to realize the expected return on investment in the property and therefore reduce the economic life of the asset and affect the amount of depreciation expense to be charged against both the current and future revenues. These assessments have a direct impact on our net income. The longer the economic useful life, the lower the depreciation expense will be for that asset in a fiscal period, which in turn will increase our net income. Similarly, having a shorter economic useful life would increase the depreciation for a fiscal period and decrease our net income. Land, buildings and real estate under development are recorded at cost. We calculate depreciation using the straight-line method with useful lives ranging generally from 35 years to a maximum of 50 years on buildings and major improvements. Maintenance and repair costs are charged to operations as incurred. Tenant work and other major improvements, which improve or extend the life of the asset, are capitalized and depreciated over the life of the lease or the estimated useful life of the improvements, whichever is shorter. Minor improvements, furniture and equipment are capitalized and depreciated over useful lives ranging from 2 to 20 years. Capitalized costs associated with leases are depreciated or amortized over the base term of the lease. Unamortized leasing costs are charged to expense if the applicable tenant vacates before the expiration of its lease. Undepreciated tenant work is written-off if the applicable tenant vacates and the tenant work is replaced or has no future value. Additionally, we make estimates as to the probability of certain development and redevelopment projects being completed. If we determine the redevelopment is no longer probable of completion, we immediately expense all capitalized costs which are not recoverable. Interest costs on developments and major redevelopments are capitalized as part of developments and redevelopments not yet placed in service. Capitalization of interest commences when development activities and expenditures begin and end upon completion, which is when the asset is ready for its intended use. Generally, rental property is considered substantially complete and ready for its intended use upon completion of tenant improvements, but no later than one year from completion of major construction activity. We make judgments as to the time period over which to capitalize such costs and these assumptions have a direct impact on net income because capitalized costs are not subtracted in calculating net income. If the time period for capitalizing interest is extended, more interest is capitalized, thereby decreasing interest expense and increasing net income during that period. Certain external and internal costs directly related to the development, redevelopment and leasing of real estate, including pre-construction costs, real estate taxes, insurance, and construction costs and salaries and related costs of personnel directly involved, are capitalized. We capitalized external and internal costs related to both development and redevelopment activities of $404 million and $9 million, respectively, for 2020 and $352 million and $9 million, respectively, for 2019. We capitalized external and internal costs related to other property improvements of $64 million and $3 million, respectively, for 2020 and $80 million and $3 million, respectively, for 2019. We capitalized external and internal costs related to leasing activities of $11 million and $2 million, respectively, for 2020 and $24 million and $2 million, respectively, for 2019. The amount of capitalized internal costs for salaries and related benefits for development and redevelopment activities, other property improvements, and leasing activities were $9 million, $3 million, and $2 million, respectively, for 2020 and $8 million, $3 million, and $2 million, respectively, for 2019. Total capitalized costs were $494 million for 2020 and $471 million for 2019, respectively. Real Estate Acquisitions Upon acquisition of operating real estate properties, we estimate the fair value of assets and liabilities acquired including land, building, improvements, leasing costs, intangibles such as in-place leases, assumed debt, and current assets and liabilities, if any.  Based on these estimates, we allocate the purchase price to the applicable assets and liabilities. We utilize methods similar to those used by independent appraisers in estimating the fair value of acquired assets and liabilities. The value allocated to in-place leases is amortized over the related lease term and reflected as rental income in the statement of operations. We consider qualitative and quantitative factors in evaluating the likelihood of a tenant exercising a below market renewal option and 35 include such renewal options in the calculation of in-place lease value when we consider these to be bargain renewal options. If the value of below market lease intangibles includes renewal option periods, we include such renewal periods in the amortization period utilized. If a tenant vacates its space prior to contractual termination of its lease, the unamortized balance of any in-place lease value is written off to rental income. Variable Interest Entities (VIEs) and Consolidation We have 17 entities that meet the criteria of a VIE and are consolidated. Net real estate assets related to VIEs included in our consolidated balance were approximately  $1.4 billion and $1.5 billion as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, and mortgage payables related to VIEs included in our consolidated balance sheets were approximately $413.7 million and $469.2 million, as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. In addition, we hold equity method investments in two hotel joint ventures and one shopping center which are considered variable interests in a VIE as of December 31, 2020. On January 4, 2021, we acquired our partner's interest in the Pike & Rose hotel joint venture. See Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for additional details of this transaction. VIEs are required to be consolidated by their primary beneficiary. The primary beneficiary of a VIE has both the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact economic performance of the VIE and the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits that could be significant to the VIE.  The determination of the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact economic performance requires judgment and is impacted by numerous factors including the purpose of the VIE, contractual rights and obligations of variable interest holders, and mechanisms for the resolution of disputes among the variable interest holders. Long-Lived Assets and Impairment There are estimates and assumptions made by management in preparing the consolidated financial statements for which the actual results will be determined over long periods of time. This includes the recoverability of long-lived assets, including our properties that have been acquired or redeveloped and our investment in certain joint ventures. Management’s evaluation of impairment includes review for possible indicators of impairment as well as, in certain circumstances, undiscounted and discounted cash flow analysis. Since most of our investments in real estate are wholly-owned or controlled assets which are held for use, a property with impairment indicators is first tested for impairment by comparing the undiscounted cash flows, including residual value, to the current net book value of the property. If the undiscounted cash flows are less than the net book value, the property is written down to expected fair value. The calculation of both discounted and undiscounted cash flows requires management to make estimates of future cash flows including revenues, operating expenses, required maintenance and development expenditures, market conditions, demand for space by tenants and rental rates over long periods. Because our properties typically have a long life, the assumptions used to estimate the future recoverability of book value requires significant management judgment. Actual results could be significantly different from the estimates. These estimates have a direct impact on net income, because recording an impairment charge results in a negative adjustment to net income. Contingencies We are sometimes involved in lawsuits, warranty claims, and environmental matters arising in the ordinary course of business. Management makes assumptions and estimates concerning the likelihood and amount of any potential loss relating to these matters. We accrue a liability for litigation if an unfavorable outcome is probable and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. If an unfavorable outcome is probable and a reasonable estimate of the loss is a range, we accrue the best estimate within the range; however, if no amount within the range is a better estimate than any other amount, the minimum within the range is accrued. Any difference between our estimate of a potential loss and the actual outcome would result in an increase or decrease to net income. Recently Adopted and Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. 2020 Property Acquisitions, Dispositions, and Impairment 36 (1) This property is adjacent to, and will be operated as part of the property acquired in 2019. The purchase price was paid with a combination of cash and the issuance of 163,322 downREIT operating partnership units. Approximately $0.5 million and $0.4 million of net assets acquired were allocated to other assets for "above market leases," and other liabilities for "below market leases," respectively. (2) The purchase price includes the assumption of $8.9 million of mortgage debt, and is in addition to the 37 buildings previously acquired in 2019, and was completed through the same joint venture. Less than $0.1 million and approximately $3.3 million of net assets acquired were allocated to other assets for "above market leases," and other liabilities for "below market leases," respectively. On September 1, 2020, the $60.6 million non-recourse mortgage loan on The Shops at Sunset Place matured. The mortgage was not repaid, and thus the lender declared the loan in default. We evaluated our long-term plans for the property, taking into account current market conditions and prospective development and redevelopment returns, as well as the impact of COVID-19 on the revenue prospects for the property, and concluded we did not expect to move forward with the planned redevelopment or repay the mortgage balance, and thus, did not expect to be long term holders of the asset. Given these expectations, we recorded an impairment charge of $57.2 million during the third quarter of 2020. The fair value estimate used to determine the impairment charge was determined by market comparable data and discounted cash flow analyses. The cash flows utilized in such analyses are comprised of unobservable inputs which include forecasted rental revenue and expenses based upon market conditions and future expectations. The capitalization rates and discount rates utilized in such analyses are based upon unobservable rates that we believe to be within a reasonable range of current market rates for the property. Based on these inputs, we have determined that the $57 million estimated valuation of the property is classified within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. On December 31, 2020, we sold The Shops at Sunset Place for $65.5 million and repaid the mortgage loan. The resulting gain of $9.2 million is included in the cumulative 2020 gain of $98.1 million noted in the disposals below. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we sold three properties (including The Shops at Sunset Place discussed above) and one building for a total sales price of $186.1 million, which resulted in a gain of $98.1 million. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we closed on the sale of the remaining two condominium units at our Pike & Rose property, receiving proceeds net of closing costs of $2.1 million. 2020 Significant Debt and Equity Transactions In connection with the two buildings we acquired in Hoboken, New Jersey on February 12, 2020, we assumed two mortgage loans with a net face amount of $8.9 million and a fair value of $9.0 million. The mortgage loans bear interest at 4.00% and mature on July 27, 2027. In March 2020, in order to strengthen our financial position and balance sheet, to maximize our liquidity, and to provide maximum financial flexibility to continue our business initiatives as the effects of COVID-19 continue to evolve, we borrowed $990.0 million under our revolving credit facility, representing a draw-down of almost the entirety of our $1.0 billion revolving credit facility. This amount was subsequently repaid when we entered into a $400.0 million unsecured term loan on May 6, 2020 and issued $700.0 million of fixed rate unsecured senior notes on May 11, 2020. The unsecured term loan matures on May 6, 2021, plus one twelve month extension at our option, and bears interest at LIBOR plus 135 basis points based on our current credit rating. Our net proceeds from this transaction after underwriting fees and other costs were $398.7 million. The $700.0 million of unsecured senior notes issued in May 2020 comprise a $300.0 million reopening of our 3.95% of senior notes maturing on January 15, 2024 and a $400.0 million issuance of 3.50% senior notes maturing on June 1, 2030. The 3.95% senior notes were offered at 103.257% of the principal amount with a yield to maturity of 2.944%, and have the same terms and are of the same series as the $300.0 million senior notes issued on December 9, 2013. The 3.50% senior notes were offered at 98.911% of the principal amount with a yield to maturity of 3.630%. Our net proceeds from these transactions after the net issuance premium, underwriting fees, and other costs were $700.1 million. On September 1, 2020, the $60.6 million non-recourse mortgage loan on The Shops at Sunset Place matured and was not repaid. The lender declared the loan in default until the non-recourse loan was repaid as part of the sale of the property on December 31, 2020. The default did not trigger a cross default with any other indebtedness. The repayment amount including accrued interest and fees, net of $4.5 million of escrows was $58.5 million. On October 13, 2020, we issued $400.0 million of fixed rate senior unsecured notes that mature on February 15, 2026 and bear interest at 1.25%. The notes were offered at 99.339% of the principal amount with a yield to maturity of 1.379%. The net proceeds of the notes, or "green bonds," after issuance discount, underwriting fees, and other costs were approximately $394.2 37 million, and will be allocated to the financing and refinancing of recently completed and future eligible green projects, which includes (i) investments in acquisitions of buildings; (ii) building developments or redevelopments; (iii) renovations in existing buildings; and (iv) tenant improvement projects, in each case that have received, or are expected to receive, in the three years prior to the issuance of the notes or during the term of the notes, a LEED Silver, Gold, or Platinum certification (or environmentally equivalent successor standards). Net proceeds allocated to previously incurred costs associated with eligible green projects will be available for repayment of indebtedness. On December 15, 2020, we repaid our $250.0 million 2.55% notes prior to the original maturity date of January 15, 2021 at par. The redemption price of $252.7 million included accrued but unpaid interest of $2.7 million. On December 17, 2020, we acquired one of our partner's preferred and common interests in the partnership that owns our Plaza El Segundo property for $7.3 million, bringing our ownership to approximately 78.2%. On December 31, 2020, we repaid our $250.0 million 3.00% notes prior to the original maturity date of August 1, 2022. The redemption price of $263.5 million included a make-whole premium of $10.4 million and accrued but unpaid interest of $3.1 million. The "early extinguishment of debt" charge in 2020 of $11.2 million includes the make-whole premium and the write off of the unamortized discount and debt issuance fees. On December 31, 2020, we also repaid the $3.6 million mortgage loan on 29th Place, at par, prior to its original maturity date. We have an at-the-market (“ATM”) equity program in which we may from time to time offer and sell common shares having an aggregate offering price of up to $400.0 million. We intend to use the net proceeds to fund potential acquisition opportunities, fund our development and redevelopment pipeline, repay amounts outstanding under our revolving credit facility and/or for general corporate purposes. For the year ended December 31, 2020, we sold 1,080,804 common shares at a weighted average price per share of $92.51 for net cash proceeds of $98.8 million including paying $1.0 million in commissions and $0.1 million in additional offering expenses related to the sales of these common shares. As of December 31, 2020, we had the capacity to issue up to $28.4 million in common shares under our ATM equity program. 2021 Transactions On January 4, 2021, we acquired our partner's 20% interest in our joint venture arrangement related to the Pike & Rose hotel for $2.3 million, and repaid the $31.5 million mortgage loan. As a result of the transaction, we gained control of the hotel portion of this property, and effective January 4, 2021, we have consolidated this asset. On February 5, 2021, we repaid the $16.2 million mortgage loan on Sylmar Town Center, at par, prior to its original maturity date. Outlook We seek growth in earnings, funds from operations, and cash flows primarily through a combination of the following: • growth in our comparable property portfolio, • growth in our portfolio from property development and redevelopments, and • expansion of our portfolio through property acquisitions. While the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic is impacting us in the short-term, our long-term focus has not changed. Our comparable property growth is primarily driven by increases in rental rates on new leases and lease renewals, changes in portfolio occupancy, and the redevelopment of those assets. Over the long-term, the infill nature and strong demographics of our properties provide a strategic advantage allowing us to maintain relatively high occupancy and generally increase rental rates. However, our occupancy levels and ability to increase rental rates will be adversely impacted in the short-term as a result of COVID-19. We believe the locations and nature of our centers and diverse tenant base partially mitigates any potential negative changes in the economic environment. However, any significant reduction in our tenants' abilities to pay base rent, percentage rent or other charges, will adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. We seek to maintain a mix of strong national, regional, and local retailers. At December 31, 2020, no single tenant accounted for more than 3.6% of annualized base rent. Since March 2020, federal, state, and local governments have taken various actions to mitigate the spread of COVID-19. This includes initially ordering closures of nonessential business and ordering residents to generally stay at home, subsequent phased re-openings, and during the fourth quarter of 2020, additional closures and capacity limitations as infection levels increased in certain areas. These actions, along with the general concern over the spread of COVID-19 have resulted in many of our tenants temporarily or even permanently closing their businesses, and for some, it has impacted their ability to pay rent. As of January 31, 2021, approximately 98% of our retail tenants were open. These economic hardships have adversely impacted our business, and had a negative effect on our financial results during 2020 . With very few exceptions, our leases require tenants to continue 38 to pay rent even while closed as a result of the pandemic, however, many tenants did not pay rents and other charges during the second quarter of 2020. Subsequently, in the second half of 2020, a portion of our tenants have resumed paying their rent and/or other charges as their businesses were able to reopen; however government mandated restrictions are still in order in many of our markets. Our percentage of contractual rent collected each quarter has continued to increase since the low point in April 2020, including some tenants paying past due amounts. As of December 31, 2020 , we have entered into agreements with approximately 32% of our tenants (based on total commercial leases) to defer rent payments to later periods, largely through 2021, although some extend beyond, and negotiations with other tenants are still ongoing. While increasing cash collection rates is a positive trend driven by government mandated restrictions gradually being lifted, we expect that our rent collections will continue to be below our tenants’ contractual rent obligations and historical levels, which will continue to adversely impact our results of operations. The extent of such impact will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted. Depending upon the duration of tenant closures, operating restrictions, and the overall economic downturn resulting from COVID-19, we may find that even deferred rents are difficult to collect, and we may experience higher vacancy levels. While the duration and severity of the economic impact resulting from COVID-19 is unknown, we seek to position the Trust to participate in the resulting economic recovery. We continue to have several development projects in process, albeit at a slower pace due to COVID-19 related restrictions, being delivered as follows: • In the 1 st quarter of 2020, we delivered the fully leased eight story, 301,000 square foot office building at Santana Row. • The first phase of construction on the 12 acres of land that we control across from Santana Row includes an eight story 376,000 square foot office building, with over 1,700 parking spaces. The building is expected to cost between $250 million and $270 million with openings beginning in 2022. • Phase III of Assembly Row includes 277,000 square feet of office space (of which, 150,000 square feet is pre-leased), 56,000 square feet of retail space, 500 residential units, and over 800 additional parking spaces. The expected costs for Phase III are between $465 million and $485 million and is projected to open beginning in 2021. • At Pike & Rose, we have continued construction on a 212,000 square foot office building (which includes 7,000 square feet of ground floor retail space), and includes over 600 additional parking spaces. The building is expected to cost between $128 million and $135 million. At December 31, 2020, approximately 61,000 square feet of office space has been delivered, of which approximately 45,000 square feet is our new corporate headquarters. • Our properties are located primarily in densely populated and/or affluent areas with high barriers to entry which allow us to take advantage of redevelopment opportunities that enhance our operating performance through renovation, expansion, reconfiguration, and/or retenanting. We evaluate our properties on an ongoing basis to identify these types of opportunities. Throughout the portfolio, we currently have redevelopment projects underway with a projected total cost of approximately $320 million that we expect to stabilize over the next several years. The above includes our best estimates based on information currently known, however, the completion of construction, final costs, and the timing of openings and rent starts will be dependent upon the duration of governmental restrictions and the duration and severity of the economic impacts of COVID-19. The development of future phases of Assembly Row, Pike & Rose and Santana Row will be pursued opportunistically based on, among other things, market conditions, tenant demand, and our evaluation of whether those phases will generate an appropriate financial return. We continue to review acquisition opportunities in our primary markets that complement our portfolio and provide long-term growth opportunities. Initially, some of our acquisitions do not contribute significantly to earnings growth; however, we believe they provide long-term re-leasing growth, redevelopment opportunities, and other strategic opportunities. Any growth from acquisitions is contingent on our ability to find properties that meet our qualitative standards at prices that meet our financial hurdles. Changes in interest rates may affect our success in achieving earnings growth through acquisitions by affecting both the price that must be paid to acquire a property, as well as our ability to economically finance the property acquisition. Generally, our acquisitions are initially financed by available cash and/or borrowings under our revolving credit facility which may be repaid later with funds raised through the issuance of new equity or new long-term debt. We may also finance our acquisitions through the issuance of common shares, preferred shares, or downREIT units as well as through assumed mortgages and property sales. At December 31, 2020, the leasable square feet in our properties was 92.2% leased and 90.2% occupied. The leased rate is higher than the occupied rate due to leased spaces that are being redeveloped or improved or that are awaiting permits and, therefore, are not yet ready to be occupied. Our occupancy and leased rates are subject to variability over time due to factors including acquisitions, the timing of the start and stabilization of our redevelopment projects, lease expirations and tenant closings and bankruptcies. 39 Comparable Properties Throughout this section, we have provided certain information on a “comparable property” basis. Information provided on a comparable property basis includes the results of properties that we owned and operated for the entirety of both periods being compared except for properties that are currently under development or are being repositioned for significant redevelopment and investment. For the year ended December 31, 2020 and the comparison of 2020 and 2019, all or a portion of 95 properties were considered comparable properties and seven were considered non-comparable properties. For the year ended December 31, 2020, two properties and two portions of properties were moved from non-comparable to comparable properties, two properties and one portion of a property were removed from comparable properties and one property was removed from non-comparable properties as they were sold during 2020, one property was moved from acquisitions to non-comparable properties, and one property was moved from comparable to non-comparable properties, compared to the designations as of December 31, 2019. While there is judgment surrounding changes in designations, we typically move non-comparable properties to comparable properties once they have stabilized, which is typically considered 90% physical occupancy or when the growth expected from the redevelopment has been included in the comparable periods. We typically remove properties from comparable properties when the repositioning of the asset has commenced and has or is expected to have a significant impact to property operating income within the calendar year.  Acquisitions are moved to comparable properties once we have owned the property for the entirety of comparable periods and the property is not under development or being repositioned for significant redevelopment and investment. Comparable property information replaces our previous same center designations. 40 YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2020 COMPARED TO YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2019 (1) Property operating income is a non-GAAP measure that consists of rental income and mortgage interest income, less rental expenses and real estate taxes. This measure is used internally to evaluate the performance of property operations and we consider it to be a significant measure. Property operating income should not be considered an alternative measure of operating results or cash flow from operations as determined in accordance with GAAP. Property Revenues Total property revenue decreased $100.3 million, or 10.7%, to $835.5 million in 2020 compared to $935.8 million in 2019. The percentage occupied at our shopping centers was 90.2% at December 31, 2020 compared to 92.5% at December 31, 2019. The most significant driver of the decrease in property revenues is the impact of COVID-19, as many of our tenants were forced to temporarily or in some cases permanently close their businesses, resulting in changes in our collectibility estimates and in some cases rent abatement. Changes in the components of property revenue are discussed below. Rental Income Rental income consists primarily of minimum rent, cost reimbursements from tenants and percentage rent, and is net of collectiblity related impacts. Rental income decreased $100.6 million, or 10.8%, to $832.2 million in 2020 compared to $932.7 million in 2019 due primarily to the following: • higher collectibility related impacts including rent abatements across all properties of $102.1 million primarily the result of COVID-19 impacts. This includes the write-off of $12.7 million of straight-line receivables primarily related to tenants who were changed to cash basis of revenue recognition during the year ended December 31, 2020. • a decrease of $24.6 million at comparable properties due primarily to lower average occupancy rates of approximately $18.0 million, lower parking income and percentage rent of of $6.3 million primarily due to the impacts from COVID-19 related closures, lower recoveries of $5.3 million primarily the result of lower snow removal expense and utilities, and lower termination fee and legal fee income of $1.3 million, partially offset by higher rental rates of  approximately $9.3 million, and 41 • decrease of $14.4 million from property sales, partially offset by • and increase of $19.7 million from non comparable properties driven by the opening of our new office building at Santana Row in early 2020 and the opening of Freedom Plaza in 2020 and • an increase of $19.5 million from acquisitions of Hoboken during the second half of 2019 and early 2020, and Georgetowne Shopping Center in November 2019. Property Expenses Total property expenses decreased $8.6 million, or 2.9%, to $290.2 million in 2020 compared to $298.8 million in 2019. Changes in the components of property expenses are discussed below. Rental Expenses Rental expenses decreased $16.9 million, or 9.0%, to $170.9 million in 2020 compared to $187.8 million in 2019. This decrease is primarily due to the following: • an $11.9 million charge in 2019 related to the buyout of a lease at Assembly Square Marketplace, • a decrease of $9.5 million from comparable properties due to lower snow removal expenses, and lower repairs and maintenance, management fees, and utilities primarily driven by the impact of COVID-19 partially offset by an increase in insurance costs, and • a decrease of $2.2 million from our property sales, partially offset by • an increase of $2.8 million from acquisitions of Hoboken during the second half of 2019 and early 2020, and Georgetowne Shopping Center in November 2019, and • an increase of $2.5 million from non comparable properties driven by the opening of our new office building at Santana Row in early 2020 and the opening of Freedom Plaza in 2020. As a result of the changes in rental income and rental expenses as discussed above, rental expenses as a percentage of rental income increased to 20.5% for the year ended December 31, 2020 from 20.1% for the year ended December 31, 2019. Real Estate Taxes Real estate tax expense increased $8.3 million, or 7.5% to $119.2 million in 2020 compared to $110.9 million in 2019 due primarily to the following: • an increase of $3.8 million from comparable properties due to higher current year assessments, and tax refunds recorded in 2019 from a multi-year appeal and reassessment at three of our properties, • an increase of $3.1 million from acquisitions of Hoboken during the second half of 2019 and early 2020 and Georgetowne Shopping Center in November 2019, and • an increase of $2.3 million from non-comparable properties due primarily to the opening of our new office building at Santana Row in early 2020, partially offset by • a decrease of $0.8 million from our property sales. Property Operating Income Property operating income decreased $91.7 million, or 14.4%, to $545.3 million in 2020 compared to $637.0 million in 2019. This decrease is primarily due to the impact of COVID-19, which resulted in higher collectibility related impacts, lower percentage rent, and lower parking income; as well as the impact of property sales, partially offset by the opening of our new office building at Santana Row in early 2020, property acquisitions, and the prior year charge related to the buyout of a lease at Assembly Square Marketplace. 42 Other Operating General and Administrative Expense General and administrative expense decreased $1.1 million, or 2.5%, to $41.7 million in 2020 from $42.8 million in 2019. This decrease is due primarily to lower personnel related costs and COVID-19 impacts including office closures and cancellations of all non-essential business travel and company events. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expense increased $15.3 million, or 6.4%, to $255.0 million in 2020 from $239.8 million in 2019. The increase is due primarily to property acquisitions, the opening of our new office buildings at Santana Row in early 2020, and the write off of lease related assets for vacating tenants, partially offset by property sales. Impairment Charge The $57.2 million impairment charge for the year ended December 31, 2020 relates to The Shops at Sunset Place. See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion. Gain on Sale of Real Estate, Net of Tax The $98.1 million gain on sale of real estate, net of tax for the year ended December 31, 2020 is due to the sale of three properties and one building. The $116.4 million gain on sale of real estate, net for the year ended December 31, 2019 is primarily due to the following: • $85.1 million related to the sale under the threat of condemnation of 11.7 acres of San Antonio Center, • $28.3 million related to the sale of three properties and one land parcel, and • $2.6 million net gain related to condominium unit sales that have closed at our Assembly Row and Pike & Rose properties. Operating Income Operating income decreased $181.4 million, or 38.5%, to $289.5 million in 2020 compared to $470.9 million in 2019. This decrease is due primarily due to the impact of COVID-19, which resulted in higher collectibility related impacts, the impairment charge related to The Shops at Sunset Place, a lower net gain on the sale of real estate, and the impact of property sales, lower percentage rent, and lower parking income, partially offset by the opening of our new office building at Santana Row in early 2020, property acquisitions, the prior year charge related to the buyout of a lease at Assembly Square Marketplace, and lower personnel related costs which were largely due to the impact of COVID-19. Other Interest Expense Interest expense increased $26.7 million, or 24.3%, to $136.3 million in 2020 compared to $109.6 million in 2019. This increase is due primarily to the following: • an increase of $20.2 million from higher borrowings in response to the COVID-19 pandemic (see further     discussions in "2020 Significant Debt and Equity Transactions" in Part II, Item 7 of the Annual Report) and • an increase of $13.0 million due to higher weighted average borrowings primarily from the $400 million issuance of our 3.20% notes in 2019, and $106.9 million of mortgage loans associated with our Hoboken acquisitions, partially offset by • a decrease of $3.7 million due to a lower overall weighted average borrowing rate, and • an increase of $2.9 million in capitalized interest, primarily attributable to the development of Phase III of Assembly Row and Pike & Rose. Gross interest costs were $159.7 million and $130.1 million in 2020 and 2019, respectively. Capitalized interest was $23.4 million and $20.5 million in 2020 and 2019, respectively. 43 Early Extinguishment of Debt The $11.2 million early extinguishment of debt for the year ended December 31, 2020 relates to the make-whole premium paid as part of the early redemption of our 3.00% senior notes on December 31, 2020 and the related write-off of the unamortized discount and debt fees. Loss from Partnerships Loss from partnerships increased to $8.1 million in 2020 compared to $2.0 million in 2019. The increase is primarily due to our share of losses from our hotel investments at Assembly Row and Pike & Rose, largely the result of COVID-19 related reductions in travel. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests decreased to $4.2 million in 2020 compared to $6.7 million in 2019. The decrease is driven by lower net income at our partnership properties primarily due to the impact of COVID-19, partially offset by higher income attributable to our operating partnership units due to additional downREIT operating partnership units issued in connection with the acquisition of Fairfax Junction in January 2020. Discussions of year-to-year comparisons between 2019 and 2018 can be found in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 10, 2020. Liquidity and Capital Resources Due to the nature of our business and strategy, we typically generate significant amounts of cash from operations. The cash generated from operations is primarily paid to our common and preferred shareholders in the form of dividends. As a REIT, we must generally make annual distributions to shareholders of at least 90% of our taxable income (cash dividends paid in 2020 were approximately $325.4 million). Remaining cash flow from operations after dividend payments is used to fund recurring and non-recurring capital projects (such as tenant improvements and redevelopments), and regular debt service requirements (including debt service relating to additional or replacement debt, as well as scheduled debt maturities). In 2020, our dividends were funded not only by cash from operations but also other sources of liquidity. We maintain a $1.0 billion revolving credit facility to fund short term cash flow needs and also look to the public and private debt and equity markets, joint venture relationships, and property dispositions to fund capital expenditures on a long-term basis. We are currently experiencing lower levels of cash from operations due to lower rent collections from tenants impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic (see further discussion  under the "Outlook" section of this Item 2). While the overall economic impacts of the pandemic are unknown, we have taken multiple steps during the last several months to strengthen our financial position, maximize liquidity, and to provide maximum flexibility during these uncertain times. Throughout the last three quarters of 2020, we have maintained levels of cash significantly in excess of the cash balances we have historically maintained. In March 2020, we borrowed $990.0 million under our revolving credit facility, representing a draw-down of almost the entirety of our $1.0 billion credit facility. In May 2020, we entered into a $400.0 million unsecured term loan and issued $700.0 million of fixed rate unsecured senior notes for combined net proceeds of $1.1 billion. We subsequently repaid the outstanding balance on our revolving credit facility and amended how certain covenants are calculated to provide us more operating flexibility. Additionally, on October 13, 2020, we issued $400.0 million of fixed rate senior unsecured notes that mature on February 15, 2026 and bear interest at 1.25%. During the fourth quarter 2020, we raised $98.8 million under our ATM equity program after fees and other costs. As of December 31, 2020, there is no outstanding balance on our $1.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility, we had cash and cash equivalents of $798.3 million, and we had the capacity to issue up to $28.4 million in common shares under the ATM program. For the year ended 2020, the weighted average amount of borrowings outstanding on our revolving credit facility was $138.5 million, and the weighted average interest rate, before amortization of debt fees, was 1.5%. Subsequent to December 31, 2020, we repaid one mortgage loan, resulting in only $7.9 million of debt maturing in 2021, excluding our $400.0 million term loan, which may be extended for an additional twelve months at our option. Our overall capital requirements during 2021 will be impacted by the extent and duration of COVID-19 related closures, impacts on our cash collections, and overall economic impacts including any halts to construction activities that might occur. It will also be impacted by acquisition opportunities and the level and general timing of our redevelopment and development activities. While the amount of future expenditures will depend on numerous factors, we expect to continue to see higher levels of capital investments in our properties under development and redevelopment, as we continue to invest in the current phase of 44 these projects and are not expecting COVID-19 related halts in construction activities as we experienced in 2020. With respect to other capital investments related to our existing properties, we expect to incur levels more consistent with prior years with an overall increase compared to 2020. We believe that the cash on our balance sheet together with rents we collect, as well as our $1.0 billion revolving credit facility will allow us to continue to operate our business in the near-term. Given our recent ability to access capital markets, we also expect debt or equity to be available to us. We may also further delay the timing of certain development and redevelopment projects, as well as limit future acquisitions, reduce our operating expenditures, or re-evaluate our dividend policy. While the COVID-19 pandemic has negatively impacted our business during the year ended December 31, 2020, and we expect it will continue to negatively impact our business in the short term, we intend to operate with and to maintain our long term commitment to a conservative capital structure that will allow us to maintain strong debt service coverage and fixed-charge coverage ratios as part of our commitment to investment-grade debt ratings. Summary of Cash Flows Net cash provided by operating activities decreased $92.0 million to $369.9 million during 2020 from $461.9 million during 2019. The decrease was primarily attributable to lower net income before non-cash items and the timing of cash receipts, both largely driven by impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic and payments of annual real estate tax recovery billings. Net cash used in investing activities increased $51.9 million to $368.4 million during 2020 from $316.5 million during 2019. The increase was primarily attributable to: • a $138.5 million decrease in proceeds from sales of real estate, resulting from the sale of three properties, one building, and the two remaining condominium units at our Pike & Rose property in 2020, as compared to the sale under the threat of condemnation of a portion of San Antonio Center and the sale of three properties, one land parcel, and the sale of 43 condominiums at our Assembly Row and Pike & Rose properties in 2019, • a $81.6 million increase in capital expenditures and leasing costs as we continue to invest in Pike & Rose, Assembly Row, Santana Row and other redevelopments, • $12.9 million for net costs paid in 2020 relating to the partial sale under threat of condemnation at San Antonio Center in 2019, and • a $9.6 million acquisition of two loans secured by a shopping center in Rockville, Maryland, that is owned by a third party, partially offset by • a $194.9 million decrease in acquisitions of real estate, primarily due to the acquisitions of Georgetowne Shopping Center, 37 mixed-use buildings in Hoboken, New Jersey, and Fairfax Junction in 2019, partially offset by the acquisition of two additional buildings in Hoboken, New Jersey in 2020. Net cash provided by financing activities increased $761.8 million to $661.7 million during 2020 from $100.1 million used in during 2019. The increase was primarily attributable to: • a $694.4 million increase due to net proceeds of $700.1 million from the issuance of $400.0 million of 3.50% unsecured senior notes and the $300.0 million reopening of our 3.95% unsecured senior notes in May 2020, and $394.2 million from the issuance of $400.0 million of 1.25% unsecured senior notes in October 2020, as compared to $399.9 million in net proceeds from the issuance of $300.0 million of 3.20% senior unsecured notes in June 2019 and an additional $100.0 million of the same series in August 2019, • $398.7 million in net proceeds from our unsecured term loan in May 2020, and 45 • a $230.8 million decrease in repayment of mortgages, finance leases, and notes payable primarily due to the repayment of our $275.0 million unsecured term loan in June 2019 and the $20.3 million payoff of the mortgage loan on Rollingwood Apartments in January 2019, partially offset by the $60.6 million payoff of the mortgage loan on The Shops at Sunset Place in December 2020 and the $3.6 million payoff of the mortgage loan on 29th Place, both in December 2020, partially offset by • $510.4 million from the December 2020 redemptions of our our $250.0 million 2.55% unsecured senior notes and our $250.0 million 3.00% unsecured senior notes, with a make-whole premium of $10.4 million, • $43.9 million decrease in net proceeds from the issuance of 1.1 million common shares under our ATM program at a weighted average price of $92.51 during 2020, as compared to 1.1 million common shares at weighted average price of $134.71 in 2019, and • a $10.9 million increase in dividends paid to shareholders due to an increase in the common share dividend rate and an increase in the number of common shares outstanding. Cash Requirements The following table provides a summary of material cash requirements comprising our fixed, noncancelable obligations as of December 31, 2020: _____________________ (1) The weighted average interest rate on our fixed and variable rate debt is 3.32% as of December 31, 2020. (2) The weighted average interest rate on the fixed and variable rate debt related to our unconsolidated real estate partnerships is 4.59% as of December 31, 2020. $25.2 million of the requirements in the next twelve months was repaid when we acquired our partners' share of the Pike & Rose hotel joint venture on January 4, 2021. See Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. (3) This includes minimum rental payments related to both finance and operating leases. (4) This includes the liability related to the sale under threat of condemnation at San Antonio Center as further discussed in Note 3 and Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements. In addition to the amounts set forth in the table above and other liquidity requirements previously discussed, the following potential commitments exist: (a) Under the terms of the Congressional Plaza partnership agreement, a minority partner has the right to require us and the other minority partner to purchase its 26.63% interest in Congressional Plaza at the interest’s then-current fair market value. If the other minority partner defaults in their obligation, we must purchase the full interest. Based on management’s current estimate of fair market value as of December 31, 2020, our estimated liability upon exercise of the put option would range from approximately $69 million to $72 million. (b) Under the terms of various other partnership agreements, the partners have the right to exchange their operating partnership units for cash or the same number of our common shares, at our option. As of December 31, 2020, a total of 744,617 operating partnership units are outstanding. (c) Two of the members in Plaza El Segundo have the right to require us to purchase their 10.0% and 11.8% ownership interests at the interests' then-current fair market value. If the members fail to exercise their put options, we have the right to purchase each of their interests on or after December 30, 2026 at fair market value.  Based on management’s current estimate of fair market value as of December 31, 2020, our estimated maximum liability upon exercise of the put option would range from approximately $28 million to $35 million. 46 (d) The other member in The Grove at Shrewsbury and Brook 35 has the right to require us to purchase all of its approximately 4.1% interest in The Grove at Shrewsbury and approximately 6.5% interest in Brook 35 at the interests' then-current fair market value. Based on management's current estimate of fair market value as of December 31, 2020, our estimated maximum liability upon exercise of the put option would range from $6 million to $7 million. (e) Effective September 18, 2023, the other member in Hoboken has the right to require us to purchase all of its 10% ownership interest at the interest's then-current fair market value. Based on management's current estimate of fair market value as of December 31, 2020, our estimated maximum liability upon exercise of the put option would range from $5 million to $6 million. (f) At December 31, 2020, we had letters of credit outstanding of approximately $4.7 million. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements At December 31, 2020, we have three real estate related equity method investments with total debt outstanding of $109.7 million, of which our share is $53.3 million. Our investment in these ventures at December 31, 2020 was $18.7 million. Other than the items disclosed in the Cash Requirements table, we have no off-balance sheet arrangements as of December 31, 2020 that are reasonably likely to have a current or future material effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, cash requirements, or capital resources. 47 Debt Financing Arrangements The following is a summary of our total debt outstanding as of December 31, 2020: _____________________ 1) On November 26, 2019, we entered into two interest rate swap agreements that fix the interest rate on the mortgage loan at 3.67%. 2) The interest rates on these mortgages range from 3.91% to 5.00%. 3) This mortgage loan has a fixed interest rate, however, the rate resets every five years until maturity. The current interest rate is fixed until July 1, 2022, and the loan is prepayable at par anytime after this date. 4) The maximum amount drawn under our revolving credit facility during 2020 was $990.0 million and the weighted average effective interest rate on borrowings under our revolving credit facility, before amortization of debt fees, was 1.5%. 48 Our revolving credit facility, unsecured term loan, and other debt agreements include financial and other covenants that may limit our operating activities in the future. As of December 31, 2020, we were in compliance with all of the financial and other covenants related to our revolving credit facility, term loan, and senior notes. Additionally, we were in compliance with all of the financial and other covenants that could trigger loan default on our mortgage loans. If we were to breach any of these financial and other covenants and did not cure the breach within an applicable cure period, our lenders could require us to repay the debt immediately and, if the debt is secured, could immediately begin proceedings to take possession of the property securing the loan. Many of our debt arrangements, including our public notes and our revolving credit facility, are cross-defaulted, which means that the lenders under those debt arrangements can put us in default and require immediate repayment of their debt if we breach and fail to cure a default under certain of our other debt obligations. As a result, any default under our debt covenants could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, our results of operations, our ability to meet our obligations and the market value of our shares. Our organizational documents do not limit the level or amount of debt that we may incur. The following is a summary of our scheduled principal repayments as of December 31, 2020: _____________________ 1) Our $400.0 million term loan matures on May 6, 2021 plus one twelve month extension, at our option. 2) Our $1.0 billion revolving credit facility matures on January 19, 2024, plus two six-month extensions at our option. As of December 31, 2020, there was no outstanding balance under this credit facility. 3) The total debt maturities differ from the total reported on the consolidated balance sheet due to the unamortized net premium/discount and debt issuance costs on mortgage loans, notes payable, and senior notes as of December 31, 2020. Interest Rate Hedging We may use derivative instruments to manage exposure to variable interest rate risk. We generally enter into interest rate swaps to manage our exposure to variable interest rate risk and treasury locks to manage the risk of interest rates rising prior to the issuance of debt. We enter into derivative instruments that qualify as cash flow hedges and do not enter into derivative instruments for speculative purposes. Interest rate swaps associated with cash flow hedges are recorded at fair value on a recurring basis. Effectiveness of cash flow hedges is assessed both at inception and on an ongoing basis. The effective portion of changes in fair value of the interest rate swaps associated with cash flow hedges is recorded in other comprehensive income (loss) which is included in "accumulated other comprehensive loss" on the balance sheet and statement of shareholders' equity. Cash flow hedges become ineffective if critical terms of the hedging instrument and the debt instrument do not perfectly match such as notional amounts, settlement dates, reset dates, calculation period and LIBOR rate. In addition, the default risk of the counterparty is evaluated by monitoring the credit worthiness of the counterparty which includes reviewing debt ratings and financial performance. If a cash flow hedge is deemed ineffective, the ineffective portion of changes in fair value of the interest rate swaps associated with cash flow hedges is recognized in earnings in the period affected. As of December 31, 2020, we have two interest rate swap agreements that effectively fix the interest rate on a mortgage payable associated with our Hoboken portfolio at 3.67%. Our Assembly Row hotel joint venture is also a party to two interest rate swap agreements that effectively fix the interest rate on the joint venture's mortgage debt at 5.206%. All swaps were designated and qualify as cash flow hedges. Hedge ineffectiveness has not impacted our earnings in 2020, 2019 and 2018. 49 REIT Qualification We intend to maintain our qualification as a REIT under Section 856(c) of the Code. As a REIT, we generally will not be subject to corporate federal income taxes on income we distribute to our shareholders as long as we satisfy certain technical requirements of the Code, including the requirement to distribute at least 90% of our taxable income to our shareholders. Funds From Operations Funds from operations (“FFO”) is a supplemental non-GAAP financial measure of real estate companies’ operating performance. The National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (“NAREIT”) defines FFO as follows: net income, computed in accordance with U.S. GAAP, plus real estate related depreciation and amortization, gains and losses on the sale of real estate, and impairment write-downs of depreciable real estate. We compute FFO in accordance with the NAREIT definition, and we have historically reported our FFO available for common shareholders in addition to our net income and net cash provided by operating activities. It should be noted that FFO: • does not represent cash flows from operating activities in accordance with GAAP (which, unlike FFO, generally reflects all cash effects of transactions and other events in the determination of net income); • should not be considered an alternative to net income as an indication of our performance; and • is not necessarily indicative of cash flow as a measure of liquidity or ability to fund cash needs, including the payment of dividends. We consider FFO available for common shareholders a meaningful, additional measure of operating performance primarily because it excludes the assumption that the value of the real estate assets diminishes predictably over time, as implied by the historical cost convention of GAAP and the recording of depreciation. We use FFO primarily as one of several means of assessing our operating performance in comparison with other REITs. Comparison of our presentation of FFO to similarly titled measures for other REITs may not necessarily be meaningful due to possible differences in the application of the NAREIT definition used by such REITs. An increase or decrease in FFO available for common shareholders does not necessarily result in an increase or decrease in aggregate distributions because our Board of Trustees is not required to increase distributions on a quarterly basis unless necessary for us to maintain REIT status. However, we must distribute at least 90% of our taxable income to remain qualified as a REIT. Therefore, a significant increase in FFO will generally require an increase in distributions to shareholders although not necessarily on a proportionate basis. The reconciliation of net income to FFO available for common shareholders is as follows: _____________________ 50 (1) For the years ended December 31, 2019 and 2018, dividends on our Series 1 preferred stock were not deducted in the calculation of FFO available to common shareholders, as the related shares were dilutive and included in "weighted average common shares, diluted." (2) For the year ended December 31, 2020, FFO available for common shareholders includes a $11.2 million charge related to early extinguishment of debt. If this charge was excluded, our FFO available for common shareholders for 2020 would have been $345.0 million, and FFO available for common shareholders, per diluted share would have been $4.52. For the year ended December 31, 2019, FFO available for common shareholders includes an $11.9 million charge relating to the buyout of a lease at Assembly Square Marketplace. If this charge was excluded, our FFO available for common shareholders for 2019 would have been $477.7 million, and FFO available for common shareholders, per diluted share would have been $6.33. (3) The weighted average common shares used to compute FFO per diluted common share also includes operating partnership units that were excluded from the computation of diluted EPS. Conversion of these operating partnership units is dilutive in the computation of FFO per diluted common share but is anti-dilutive for the computation of diluted EPS for the periods presented.