********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

An investment in our stock involves a high degree of risk. You should carefully consider the following information, together with the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before buying shares of our stock. If any of the following risks or uncertainties occur, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected and the trading price of our stock could decline. Summary of Risk Factors The following is a summary of the principal risks and uncertainties that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations and make an investment in our stock speculative or risky. You should read this summary together with the more detailed description of each risk factor contained below. Risks Related to Our Markets and Customers • Competition in solar markets globally and across the solar value chain is intense, and could remain that way for an extended period of time. An increased global supply of PV modules has caused and may cause structural imbalances in which global PV module supply exceeds demand. If our competitors reduce module pricing to levels near or below their manufacturing costs, or are able to operate at minimal or negative operating margins for sustained periods of time, or if demand for PV modules does not grow sufficiently to justify the current production supply, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. • PV solar and related technologies may not be suitable for continued adoption at economically attractive rates of return. Sufficient additional demand for solar modules and related technologies may not develop or may take longer to develop than we anticipate, causing our net sales and profit to flatten or decline and threatening our ability to sustain profitability. • The reduction, elimination, or expiration of government subsidies, economic incentives, tax incentives, renewable energy targets, and other support for on-grid solar electricity applications, or other public policies could negatively impact demand and/or price levels for our solar modules. The imposition of tariffs on our products could materially increase our costs to perform under our contracts with customers, which could adversely affect our results of operations. • An increase in interest rates or tightening of the supply of capital in the global financial markets (including a reduction in total tax equity availability) could make it difficult for customers to finance the cost of a PV solar power system and could reduce the demand for our modules and/or lead to a reduction in the average selling price for our products. Risks Related to Our Operations, Manufacturing, and Technology • We face intense competition from manufacturers of crystalline silicon solar modules; if global supply exceeds global demand, it could lead to a further reduction in the average selling price for PV solar modules, which could reduce our net sales and adversely affect our results of operations. • Problems with product quality or performance may cause us to incur significant and/or unexpected contractual damages and/or warranty and related expenses, damage our market reputation, and prevent us from maintaining or increasing our market share. • Our failure to further refine our technology and develop and introduce improved PV products, including as a result of delays in implementing planned advancements, could render our solar modules uncompetitive and reduce our net sales, profitability, and/or market share. 18 • Several of our key raw materials components, particularly CdTe, and manufacturing equipment are either single-sourced or sourced from a limited number of suppliers, and their failure to perform could cause manufacturing delays and impair our ability to deliver solar modules to customers in the required quality and quantities and at a price that is profitable to us. • Our failure to reduce module manufacturing production and selling costs, including costs related to raw materials and logistics services, could render our solar modules uncompetitive and reduce our net sales, profitability, and/or market share. Risks Related to Regulations • Existing regulations and policies, changes thereto, and new regulations and policies may present technical, regulatory, and economic barriers to the purchase and use of PV solar products or systems, which may significantly reduce demand for our modules. General Risk Factors • The COVID-19 pandemic could materially impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. • If our long-lived assets or project related assets become impaired, we may be required to record significant charges to earnings. Risks Related to Our Markets and Customers Competition in solar markets globally and across the solar value chain is intense, and could remain that way for an extended period of time. An increased global supply of PV modules has caused and may cause structural imbalances in which global PV module supply exceeds demand, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In the aggregate, we believe manufacturers of solar cells and modules have significant installed production capacity, relative to global demand, and the ability for additional capacity expansion. For example, we estimate that in 2021 approximately 80 GW DC of capacity was added by solar module manufacturers, primarily but not exclusively in Asia. We believe the solar industry may from time to time experience periods of structural imbalance between supply and demand (i.e., where production capacity exceeds global demand), and that excess capacity will continue to put pressure on pricing. During the past several years, industry average selling prices per watt have generally declined in many markets, at times significantly, as competitors have reduced prices to sell inventories worldwide. There may be additional pressure on global demand and average selling prices in the future resulting from fluctuating demand in certain major solar markets, such as China. If our competitors reduce module pricing to levels near or below their manufacturing costs, or are able to operate at minimal or negative operating margins for sustained periods of time, or if demand for PV modules does not grow sufficiently to justify the current production supply, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be adversely affected. If PV solar and related technologies are not suitable for continued adoption at economically attractive rates of return or if sufficient additional demand for solar modules and related technologies does not develop or takes longer to develop than we anticipate, our net sales and profit may flatten or decline and we may be unable to sustain profitability. In comparison to traditional forms of energy generation, the solar energy market continues to be at an earlier stage of development. If utility-scale PV solar technology proves unsuitable for continued adoption at economically attractive rates of return or if additional demand for solar modules fails to develop sufficiently or takes longer to develop than we anticipate, we may be unable to grow our business or generate sufficient net sales to sustain 19 profitability. In addition, demand for solar modules and related technologies in our targeted markets may develop to a lesser extent than we anticipate. Many factors may affect the viability of continued adoption of utility-scale PV solar technology in our targeted markets, as well as the demand for solar modules generally, including the following: • cost-effectiveness of the electricity generated by PV solar power systems compared to conventional energy sources, such as natural gas (which fuel source may be subject to significant price fluctuations from time to time), and other renewable energy sources, such as wind, geothermal, and hydroelectric; • changes in tax, trade remedies, and other public policy, as well as changes in economic, market, and other conditions that affect the price of, and demand for, conventional energy resources, non-solar renewable energy resources (e.g., wind and hydroelectric), and energy efficiency programs and products, including increases or decreases in the prices of natural gas, coal, oil, and other fossil fuels and in the prices of competing renewable resources; • the extent of competition, barriers to entry, and overall conditions and timing related to the development of solar in new and emerging market segments such as commercial and industrial customers, community solar, community choice aggregators, and other customer segments; • availability, substance, and magnitude of support programs including federal, state, and local government subsidies, incentives, targets, and renewable portfolio standards, among other policies and programs, to accelerate the development of the solar industry; • performance, reliability, and availability of energy generated by PV solar power systems compared to conventional and other non-solar renewable energy sources and products, particularly conventional energy generation capable of providing 24-hour, non-intermittent baseload power; • the development, functionality, scale, cost, and timing of energy storage solutions; and • changes in the amount and priorities of capital expenditures by end users of solar modules and systems (e.g., utilities), which capital expenditures tend to decrease when the economy slows or when interest rates increase, thereby resulting in redirection away from solar generation to development of competing forms of electric generation and to distribution (e.g., smart grid), transmission, and energy efficiency measures. The reduction, elimination, or expiration of government subsidies, economic incentives, tax incentives, renewable energy targets, and other support for on-grid solar electricity applications, or other public policies, such as tariffs or other trade remedies imposed on solar cells and modules, could negatively impact demand and/or price levels for our solar modules and limit our growth or lead to a reduction in our net sales or increase our costs, thereby adversely impacting our operating results. Although we believe that solar energy will experience widespread adoption in those applications where it competes economically with traditional forms of energy without any support programs, in certain markets our net sales and profits remain subject to variability based on the availability and size of government subsidies and economic incentives. Federal, state, and local governmental bodies in many countries have provided subsidies in the form of feed-in-tariff (“FiT”) structures, rebates, tax incentives, and other incentives to end users, distributors, system integrators, and manufacturers of PV solar products. Many of these support programs expire, phase out over time, require renewal by the applicable authority, or may be amended. A summary of certain recent developments in the major government support programs that may impact our business appears under Item 1. “Business – Support Programs.” To the extent these support programs are reduced earlier than previously expected, are changed retroactively, or are not renewed, such changes could negatively impact demand and/or price levels for our solar modules, lead to a reduction in our net sales, and adversely impact our operating results. Another consideration in the U.S. market, and to a lesser extent in other global markets, is the effect of governmental land-use planning policies and environmental policies on utility-scale PV solar development. The adoption of restrictive land-use 20 designations or environmental regulations that proscribe or restrict the siting of utility-scale solar facilities could adversely affect the marginal cost of such development. Changes or threatened changes in U.S. regulatory policy may subject us to significant risks, including the following: • a reduction or removal of clean energy programs and initiatives and the incentives they provide may diminish the market for future solar energy off-take agreements, slow the retirement of aging fossil fuel plants, including the retirements of coal generation plants, and reduce the ability for solar project developers to compete for off-take agreements, which may reduce PV solar module sales; • any limitations on the value or availability to potential investors of tax incentives that benefit solar energy projects, such as the ITC, which is currently scheduled to decrease to 22% in 2023 and 10% in 2024, and accelerated depreciation deductions, could result in reducing such investors’ economic returns, causing a reduction in the availability of affordable financing, thereby reducing demand for PV solar modules; and • any effort to overturn federal and state laws, regulations, or policies that are supportive of solar energy generation or that remove costs or other limitations on other types of electricity generation that compete with solar energy projects could negatively impact our ability to compete with traditional forms of electricity generation and materially and adversely affect our business. Application of U.S. trade laws, or trade laws of other countries, may also impact, either directly or indirectly, our operating results. In some instances, the application of trade laws is currently beneficial to the Company, and changes in their application could have an adverse impact. For example, the United States currently imposes different types of tariffs and/or other trade remedies on certain imported crystalline silicon PV modules and cells from various countries. During 2021, these tariffs included a global safeguard measure imposed pursuant to Section 201 of the Trade Act of 1974 that provided for tariffs on imported crystalline silicon solar modules and a tariff-rate quota on imported crystalline silicon solar cells above the first 2.5 GW DC of imports. Thin film solar cell products, such as our CdTe technology, are specifically excluded from the tariffs. The positive impact of this measure on our operating results has been reduced by various actions taken by the U.S. government. First, in June 2019, the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative granted a tariff exclusion for imports of bifacial modules. In October 2020, the U.S. President withdrew the exclusion and adjusted the tariff rate from 15% to 18% between February 2021 and February 2022, but the U.S. Court of International Trade enjoined enforcement of those actions in November 2021. Second, in February 2022, the U.S. President proclaimed a four-year extension of the current global safeguard measure, but this extension measure does not apply tariffs to imports of bifacial modules. The extension measure imposes a 14.75% tariff in the first year, which is scheduled to phase down annually in 0.25 percentage point increments over the four-year term. The extension measure also increased the annual tariff-rate quota threshold so that tariffs apply to imported crystalline silicon solar cells above the first 5.0 GW DC of imports. In addition, the United States currently imposes antidumping and countervailing duties on certain imported crystalline silicon PV cells and modules from China and Taiwan. Such antidumping and countervailing duties can change over time pursuant to annual reviews conducted by the U.S. Department of Commerce, and a decline in duty rates could have an adverse impact on our operating results. In February 2022, Auxin Solar Inc., a U.S. producer of crystalline silicon PV products, petitioned the U.S. Department of Commerce (“USDOC”) to investigate alleged circumvention of antidumping and countervailing duties on Chinese imports by crystalline silicon PV cells and module imports assembled and completed in Cambodia, Malaysia, Thailand, and Vietnam. We cannot predict what actions USDOC will take with respect to that petition. Our operating results could be adversely impacted if USDOC declines to investigate or makes negative circumvention determinations. Conversely, affirmative circumvention determinations could positively impact our operating results. 21 In other instances, the application of U.S. trade laws has had, or could have, an adverse impact on our operating results by increasing our costs or limiting the competitiveness of our products. For example, the United States imposes tariffs on certain imported aluminum and steel articles from certain foreign jurisdictions, generally at rates of 10% and 25%, respectively, under Section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962. Such tariffs and policies, or any other U.S. or global trade remedies or other trade barriers, may directly or indirectly affect U.S. or global markets for solar energy and our business, financial condition, and results of operations. These examples show that established markets for PV solar development face uncertainties arising from policy, regulatory, and governmental constraints. While the expected potential of the markets we are targeting is significant, policy promulgation and market development are especially vulnerable to governmental inertia, political instability, the imposition or lowering of trade remedies and other trade barriers, geopolitical risk, fossil fuel subsidization, potentially stringent localization requirements, and limited available infrastructure. An increase in interest rates or tightening of the supply of capital in the global financial markets (including a reduction in total tax equity availability) could make it difficult for customers to finance the cost of a PV solar power system and could reduce the demand for our modules and/or lead to a reduction in the average selling price for our modules. Many of our customers depend on debt and/or equity financing to fund the initial capital expenditure required to develop, build, and/or purchase a PV solar power system. As a result, an increase in interest rates, or a reduction in the supply of project debt financing or tax equity investments, could reduce the number of solar projects that receive financing or otherwise make it difficult for our customers to secure the financing necessary to develop, build, purchase, or install a PV solar power system on favorable terms, or at all, and thus lower demand for our solar modules, which could limit our growth or reduce our net sales. See the Risk Factor entitled “The reduction, elimination, or expiration of government subsidies, economic incentives, tax incentives, renewable energy targets, and other support for on-grid solar electricity applications, or other public policies, such as tariffs or other trade remedies imposed on solar cells and modules, could negatively impact demand and/or price levels for our solar modules and limit our growth or lead to a reduction in our net sales or increase our costs, thereby adversely impacting our operating results” for additional information. In addition, we believe that a significant percentage of our customers install systems as an investment, funding the initial capital expenditure through a combination of equity and debt. An increase in interest rates could lower an investor’s return on investment in a system, increase equity return requirements, or make alternative investments more attractive relative to PV solar power systems and, in each case, could cause these customers to seek alternative investments. We may be unable to fully execute on our long-term strategic plans, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results of operations. We face numerous difficulties in executing on our long-term strategic plans, particularly in new foreign jurisdictions, including the following: • difficulty in competing against companies who may have greater financial resources and/or a more effective or established localized business presence and/or an ability to operate with minimal or negative operating margins for sustained periods of time; • difficulty in competing successfully with other technologies, such as bifacial modules and n-type mono-crystalline modules; • difficulty in accurately prioritizing geographic markets that we can most effectively and profitably serve with our solar module offerings, including miscalculations in overestimating or underestimating addressable market demand; • adverse public policies in countries we operate in and/or are pursuing, including local content requirements, the imposition of trade remedies, the removal of trade barriers, or capital investment requirements; 22 • business climates, such as that in China, that may have the effect of putting foreign companies at a disadvantage relative to domestic companies; • unstable economic, social, and/or operating environments in foreign jurisdictions, including social unrest, currency, inflation, and interest rate uncertainties; • the possibility of applying an ineffective commercial approach to targeted markets, including product offerings that may not meet market needs; • difficulty in generating sufficient sales volumes at economically sustainable profitability levels; • difficulty in timely identifying, attracting, training, and retaining qualified sales, technical, and other personnel in geographies targeted for expansion; • difficulty in maintaining proper controls and procedures as we expand our business operations in terms of geographical reach, including transitioning certain business functions to low-cost geographies, with any material control failure potentially leading to reputational damage and loss of confidence in our financial reporting; • difficulty in competing successfully for market share in overall solar markets as a result of the success of companies participating in the global rooftop PV solar market, which is a segment in which we do not have significant historical experience; • difficulty in establishing and implementing a commercial and operational approach adequate to address the specific needs of the markets we are pursuing; • difficulty in identifying effective local partners and developing any necessary partnerships with local businesses on commercially acceptable terms; and • difficulty in balancing market demand and manufacturing production in an efficient and timely manner, potentially causing our manufacturing capacity to be constrained in some future periods or over-supplied in others. Refer also to the Risk Factors entitled “Our substantial international operations subject us to a number of risks, including unfavorable political, regulatory, labor, and tax conditions in the United States and/or foreign countries,” and “The reduction, elimination, or expiration of government subsidies, economic incentives, tax incentives, renewable energy targets, and other support for on-grid solar electricity applications, or other public policies, such as tariffs or other trade remedies imposed on solar cells and modules, could negatively impact demand and/or price levels for our solar modules and limit our growth or lead to a reduction in our net sales or increase our costs, thereby adversely impacting our operating results.” The loss of any of our large customers, or the inability of our customers and counterparties to perform under their contracts with us, could significantly reduce our net sales and negatively impact our results of operations. Our customers include developers and operators of systems, utilities, independent power producers, commercial and industrial companies, and other system owners, who may experience intense competition at the system level, thereby constraining the ability for such customers to sustain meaningful and consistent profitability. The loss of any of our large customers, their inability to perform under their contracts, or their default in payment could significantly reduce our net sales and/or adversely impact our operating results. While our contracts with customers typically have certain firm purchase commitments and may include provisions for the payment of amounts to us in certain events of contract termination, these contracts may be subject to amendments made by us or requested by our customers. These amendments may reduce the volume of modules to be sold under the contract, adjust delivery 23 schedules, or otherwise decrease the expected revenue under these contracts. Although we believe that we can mitigate this risk, in part, by reallocating modules to other customers if the need arises, we may be unable, in whole or in part, to do so on similar terms or at all. We may also mitigate this risk by requiring some form of payment security from our customers, such as parent guarantees, bank guarantees, surety bonds, or commercial letters of credit. However, in the event the providers of such payment security fail to perform their obligations, our operating results could be adversely impacted. We may be unable to profitably provide new solar offerings or achieve sufficient market penetration with such offerings. We may expand our portfolio of offerings to include solutions that build upon our core competencies but for which we have not had significant historical experience, including variations in our traditional product offerings or other offerings related to certain markets. We cannot be certain that we will be able to ascertain and allocate the appropriate financial and human resources necessary to grow these business areas. We could invest capital into growing these businesses but fail to address market or customer needs or otherwise not experience a satisfactory level of financial return. In expanding into these areas, we may also compete against companies that previously have not been significant competitors, such as companies that currently have substantially more experience than we do in the residential, commercial and industrial, or other targeted offerings. If we are unable to achieve growth in these areas, our overall growth and financial performance may be limited relative to our competitors and our operating results could be adversely impacted. Risks Related to Our Operations, Manufacturing, and Technology We face intense competition from manufacturers of crystalline silicon solar modules; if global supply exceeds global demand, it could lead to a further reduction in the average selling price for PV solar modules , which could reduce our net sales and adversely affect our results of operations. The solar and renewable energy industries are highly competitive and are continually evolving as participants strive to distinguish themselves within their markets and compete with the larger electric power industry. Within the global PV solar industry, we face intense competition from crystalline silicon module manufacturers. Existing or future module manufacturers might be acquired by larger companies with significant capital resources, thereby further intensifying competition with us. In addition, the introduction of a low cost disruptive technology could adversely affect our ability to compete, which could reduce our net sales and adversely affect our results of operations. We expect to compete with future entrants into the PV solar industry and existing market participants that offer new or differentiated technological solutions. For example, most crystalline silicon cell and wafer manufacturers have transitioned from lower efficiency Back Surface Field (“BSF”) multi-crystalline cells (the legacy technology against which we have generally competed) to higher efficiency Passivated Emitter Rear Contact (“PERC”) mono-crystalline cells at competitive cost structures. As a result, we expect that in the near future, our primary competition will be mono-crystalline PERC based modules with higher conversion efficiencies. Additionally, while conventional solar modules, including the solar modules we currently produce, are monofacial, meaning their ability to produce energy is a function of direct and diffuse irradiance on their front side, most module manufacturers offer bifacial modules that also capture diffuse irradiance and reflected light on the back side of a module. Such technology can improve the overall energy production of a module relative to nameplate efficiency when applied in certain applications, which could potentially lower the overall LCOE of a system when compared to systems using conventional solar modules, including the modules we currently produce. Additionally, certain module manufacturers recently introduced n-type mono-crystalline modules, such as TOPCon modules, which are expected to provide certain improvements to module efficiency, temperature coefficient, and bifacial performance, and claim to provide certain degradation advantages compared to other mono-crystalline modules. Finally, many of our competitors are promoting modules with larger overall area based on the use of larger silicon wafers. While the transition to such larger wafers would increase nameplate wattage, we believe the associated production cost would not improve significantly. 24 Even if demand for solar modules continues to grow, the rapid manufacturing capacity expansion undertaken by many module manufacturers in China and certain parts of Southeast Asia, particularly manufacturers of crystalline silicon cells, modules, and wafers, has created and may continue to cause periods of structural imbalance in which supply exceeds demand. See the Risk Factor entitled “Competition in solar markets globally and across the solar value chain is intense, and could remain that way for an extended period of time. An increased global supply of PV modules has caused and may cause structural imbalances in which global PV module supply exceeds demand, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations,” for additional information. In addition, we believe any significant decrease in the cost of silicon feedstock or polysilicon would reduce the manufacturing cost of crystalline silicon modules and lead to further pricing pressure for solar modules and potentially an oversupply of solar modules. Our competitors could decide to reduce their sales prices in response to competition, even below their manufacturing costs, in order to generate sales, and may do so for a sustained period. Other competitors, including many in China, may have direct or indirect access to sovereign capital, which could enable such competitors to operate at minimal or negative operating margins for sustained periods of time. As a result, we may be unable to sell our solar modules at attractive prices, or for a profit, during any period of excess supply of solar modules, which would reduce our net sales and adversely affect our results of operations. Additionally, we may decide to lower our average selling prices to customers in certain markets in response to competition, which could also reduce our net sales and adversely affect our results of operations. Problems with product quality or performance may cause us to incur significant and/or unexpected contractual damages and/or warranty and related expenses, damage our market reputation, and prevent us from maintaining or increasing our market share. We perform a variety of module quality and life tests under different environmental conditions upon which we base our assessments of future module performance over the duration of the warranty. However, if our thin film solar modules perform below expectations, we could experience significant warranty and related expenses, damage to our market reputation, and erosion of our market share. With respect to our modules, we provide a limited warranty covering defects in materials and workmanship under normal use and service conditions for up to 12 years. We also typically warrant that modules installed in accordance with agreed-upon specifications will produce at least 98% of their labeled power output rating during the first year, with the warranty coverage reducing by a degradation factor every year thereafter throughout the limited power output warranty period of up to 30 years. Among other things, our solar module warranty also covers the resulting power output loss from cell cracking. As an alternative form of our standard limited module power output warranty, we have also offered an aggregated or system-level limited module performance warranty. This system-level limited module performance warranty is designed for utility-scale systems and provides 25-year system-level energy degradation protection. This warranty represents a practical expedient to address the challenge of identifying, from the potential millions of modules installed in a utility-scale system, individual modules that may be performing below warranty thresholds by focusing on the aggregate energy generated by the system rather than the power output of individual modules. The system-level limited module performance warranty is typically calculated as a percentage of a system’s expected energy production, adjusted for certain actual site conditions, with the warranted level of performance declining each year in a linear fashion, but never falling below 80% during the term of the warranty. As a result of these warranty programs, we bear the risk of product warranty claims long after we have sold our solar modules and recognized net sales. If any of the assumptions used in estimating our module warranties prove incorrect, we could be required to accrue additional expenses, which could adversely impact our financial position, operating results, and cash flows. Although we have taken significant precautions to avoid a manufacturing excursion from occurring, any manufacturing excursions, including any commitments made by us to take remediation actions in respect of affected modules beyond the stated remedies in our warranties, could adversely impact our reputation, financial position, operating results, and cash flows. 25 Although our module performance warranties extend for up to 30 years, our oldest solar modules manufactured during the qualification of our pilot production line have only been in use since 2001. Accordingly, our warranties are based on a variety of quality and life tests that enable predictions of durability and future performance. These predictions, however, could prove to be materially different from the actual performance during the warranty period, causing us to incur substantial expense to repair or replace defective solar modules or provide financial remuneration in the future. For example, our solar modules could suffer various failures, including breakage, delamination, corrosion, or performance degradation in excess of expectations, and our manufacturing operations or supply chain could be subject to materials or process variations that could cause affected modules to fail or underperform compared to our expectations. These risks could be amplified as we implement design and process changes in connection with our efforts to improve our products and accelerate module wattage as part of our long-term strategic plans. In addition, if we increase the number of installations in extreme climates, we may experience increased failure rates due to deployment into such field conditions. Any widespread product failures may damage our market reputation, cause our net sales to decline, require us to repair or replace the defective modules or provide financial remuneration, and result in us taking voluntary remedial measures beyond those required by our standard warranty terms to enhance customer satisfaction, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. In resolving claims under both the limited defect and power output warranties, we typically have the option of either repairing or replacing the covered modules or, under the limited power output warranty, providing additional modules to remedy the power shortfall or making certain cash payments; however, historical versions of our module warranty did not provide a refund remedy. Consequently, we may be obligated to repair or replace the covered modules under such historical programs. As our manufacturing process may change from time-to-time in accordance with our technology roadmap, we may elect to stop production of older versions of our modules that would constitute compatible replacement modules. In some jurisdictions, our inability to provide compatible replacement modules could potentially expose us to liabilities beyond the limitations of our module warranties, which could adversely impact our reputation, financial position, operating results, and cash flows. In addition to our limited solar module warranties described above, for PV solar power systems we have constructed for customers in prior periods, we have provided limited warranties for defects in engineering design, installation, and balance of systems (“BoS”) part workmanship for a period of one to two years following the substantial completion of a system or a block within the system. BoS parts represent mounting, electrical, and other parts used in PV solar power systems. In resolving claims under such BoS warranties, we have the option of remedying the defect through repair or replacement. As with our modules, these warranties are based on a variety of quality and life tests that enable predictions of durability and future performance. Any failures in BoS equipment beyond our expectations may also adversely impact our reputation, financial position, operating results, and cash flows. In addition, our contracts with customers may include provisions with particular product specifications, minimum wattage requirements, and specified delivery schedules. These contracts may be terminated, or we may incur significant liquidated damages or other damages, if we fail to perform our contractual obligations. In addition, our costs to perform under these contracts may exceed our estimates, which could adversely impact our profitability. Any failures to comply with our contracts for the sale of our modules could adversely impact our reputation, financial position, operating results, and cash flows. Our failure to further refine our technology and develop and introduce improved PV products, including as a result of delays in implementing planned advancements, could render our solar modules uncompetitive and reduce our net sales, profitability, and/or market share. We need to continue to invest significant financial resources in R&D to continue to improve our module conversion efficiencies and otherwise keep pace with technological advances in the solar industry. However, R&D activities are inherently uncertain, and we could encounter practical difficulties in commercializing our research results. We seek to continuously improve our products and processes, including, for example, certain planned improvements to our CdTe module technology and manufacturing capabilities, such as the implementation of our CuRe program or the increase to our module form factor (which we refer to as Series 6 Plus or Series 7), and the resulting changes carry 26 potential risks in the form of delays, performance, additional costs, or other unintended contingencies. For example, the implementation of our CuRe program has been delayed as a result of certain challenges, including in achieving full module performance entitlement in high volume manufacturing conditions and certain impediments to our ability to upgrade tooling to support our CuRe program. As a result, we have amended or will endeavor to amend certain related customer contracts, including by potentially making certain price concessions and substituting other modules. While we believe our CuRe program remains promising and that we will be able to resolve the challenges described above, we may encounter unanticipated technological, logistical, or other challenges that could result in further delays to our CuRe program. Additionally, the successful launch of our Series 7 module technology, which we expect to produce at our third manufacturing facility in the U.S. and our first manufacturing facility in India, is sensitive to changes in the final product size and module mounting structure, among others. While we believe that we will be able to manage these uncertainties, we may encounter unanticipated challenges as we implement design and process changes in connection with this new module series. Any such additional challenges or other circumstances beyond our knowledge or control could result in material adverse impacts, including additional pricing concessions in other customer contracts. See Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Certain Trends and Uncertainties” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information on our CuRe program. Our significant expenditures for R&D may not produce corresponding benefits. Other companies are developing a variety of competing PV technologies, including advanced mono-crystalline silicon cells, PERC or advanced p-type crystalline silicon cells, high-efficiency n-type crystalline silicon cells, bifacial solar modules, and new emerging technologies such as hybrid perovskites or other thin films, which could produce solar modules that prove more cost-effective or have better performance than our solar modules. We often forward price our products in anticipation of future technology improvements. Furthermore, certain of our contracts with customers may include transaction price adjustments associated with future module technology improvements, including new product designs and enhancements to certain energy related attributes. Accordingly, an inability to further refine our technology and execute our module technology roadmap could adversely affect our operating results. Some of our manufacturing equipment is customized and sole sourced. If our manufacturing equipment fails or if our equipment suppliers fail to perform under their contracts, we could experience production disruptions and be unable to satisfy our contractual requirements. Some of our manufacturing equipment is customized to our production lines based on designs or specifications that we provide to equipment manufacturers, which then undertake a specialized process to manufacture the custom equipment. As a result, the equipment is not readily available from multiple vendors and would be difficult to repair or replace if it were to become delayed, damaged, or stop working. If any piece of equipment fails, production along the entire production line could be interrupted. In addition, the failure of our equipment manufacturers to supply equipment in a timely manner or on commercially reasonable terms could delay our expansion or conversion plans, otherwise disrupt our production schedule, and/or increase our manufacturing costs, all of which would adversely impact our operating results. Several of our key raw materials and components are either single-sourced or sourced from a limited number of suppliers, and their failure to perform could cause manufacturing delays and impair our ability to deliver solar modules to customers in the required quality and quantities and at a price that is profitable to us. Our failure to obtain raw materials and components that meet our quality, quantity, and cost requirements in a timely manner could interrupt or impair our ability to manufacture our solar modules or increase our manufacturing costs. Several of our key raw materials and components are either single-sourced or sourced from a limited number of suppliers. As a result, the failure of any of our suppliers to perform could disrupt our supply chain and adversely impact our operations. In addition, some of our suppliers are smaller companies that may be unable to supply our increasing demand for raw materials and components as we expand our business. We may be unable to identify new suppliers or qualify their products for use on our production lines in a timely manner and on commercially 27 reasonable terms. A constraint on our production may result in our inability to meet our capacity plans and/or our obligations under our customer contracts, which would have an adverse impact on our business. Additionally, reductions in our production volume may put pressure on suppliers, resulting in increased material and component costs. A disruption in our supply chain for CdTe, other key raw materials, or equipment could interrupt or impair our ability to manufacture solar modules and could adversely impact our profitability and long-term growth prospects. A key raw material used in our module production process is a CdTe compound. Tellurium, one of the main components of CdTe, is mainly produced as a by-product of copper refining, and therefore, its supply is largely dependent upon demand for copper. If our competitors begin to use or increase their demand for tellurium, our requirements for tellurium increase, new applications for tellurium become available, or adverse trade laws or policies restrict our ability to obtain tellurium from foreign vendors or make doing so cost prohibitive, the supply of tellurium and related CdTe compounds could be reduced and prices could increase. Furthermore, our supply chain could be limited if any of our current or future suppliers fail to perform or are unable to acquire an adequate supply in a timely manner or at commercially reasonable prices. If our current or future suppliers cannot obtain sufficient raw materials or key equipment, they could substantially increase prices or be unable to perform under their contracts. Additionally, we may also be unable to effectively manage fluctuations in the availability and cost of logistics services associated with the procurement of raw materials or equipment used in our manufacturing process. If we are unable to pass such cost increases to our customers, a substantial increase in prices or any limitations or disruptions in our supply chain could adversely impact our profitability and long-term growth objectives. Refer also to the Risk Factor entitled, “The COVID-19 pandemic could materially impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations.” Our failure to reduce module manufacturing production and selling costs, including costs related to raw materials and logistics services, could render our solar modules uncompetitive and reduce our net sales, profitability, and/or market share. Certain of our key raw material purchase contracts include variable pricing terms, which are driven by underlying indices for certain commodities, including aluminum, steel, and natural gas, among others. Fluctuations in such underlying commodity indices may increase our raw material costs. Additionally, an increase in price levels generally, such as inflation related to the cost of raw materials, key manufacturing equipment, labor, and logistics services, could adversely impact our profitability. From time to time, we may utilize derivative hedging instruments to mitigate price changes related to our raw materials or key manufacturing equipment. Our profitability could be adversely impacted if we are unable to effectively hedge such prices or pass these cost increases through to our customers. We often forward price our products in anticipation of future cost reductions, and thus, an inability to execute our cost reduction roadmap could adversely affect our operating results. 28 Our future success depends on our ability to effectively balance manufacturing production with market demand, convert existing production facilities to support new product lines, decrease our cost per watt, and, when necessary, continue to build new manufacturing plants over time in response to market demand, all of which are subject to risks and uncertainties. Our future success depends on our ability to effectively balance manufacturing production with market demand, convert existing production facilities to support new product lines, decrease our cost per watt, and increase our manufacturing capacity in a cost-effective and efficient manner. If we cannot do so, we may be unable to decrease our cost per watt, maintain our competitive position, sustain profitability, expand our business, or create long-term shareholder value. Our ability to decrease our cost per watt, expand production capacity, or convert existing production facilities to support new product lines is subject to significant risks and uncertainties, including the following: • failure to reduce manufacturing material, labor, or overhead costs; • an inability to increase production throughput or the average power output per module, or minimize manufacturing yield losses; • failure to effectively manage the availability and cost of logistics services associated with the procurement of raw materials or equipment used in our manufacturing process and the shipping, handling, storage, and distribution of our modules; • delays and cost overruns as a result of a number of factors, many of which may be beyond our control, such as our inability to secure economical contracts with equipment vendors; • our custom-built equipment taking longer and costing more to manufacture than expected and not operating as designed; • delays or denial of required approvals by relevant government authorities; • an inability to hire qualified staff; • failure to execute our expansion or conversion plans effectively; • difficulty in balancing market demand and manufacturing production in an efficient and timely manner, potentially causing our manufacturing capacity to be constrained in some future periods or over-supplied in others; and • incurring manufacturing asset write-downs, write-offs, and other charges and costs, which may be significant, during those periods in which we idle, slow down, shut down, convert, or otherwise adjust our manufacturing capacity. If our estimates regarding the future costs of collecting and recycling CdTe solar modules covered by our solar module collection and recycling program are incorrect, we could be required to accrue additional expenses and face a significant unplanned cash burden. As necessary, we fund any incremental amounts for our estimated collection and recycling obligations on an annual basis based on the estimated costs of collecting and recycling covered modules, estimated rates of return on our restricted marketable securities, and an estimated solar module life of 25 years less amounts already funded in prior years. We estimate the cost of our collection and recycling obligations based on the present value of the expected future cost of collecting and recycling the solar modules, which includes estimates for the cost of packaging materials; the cost of freight from the solar module installation sites to a recycling center; material, labor, and capital 29 costs; and by-product credits for certain materials recovered during the recycling process. We base these estimates on our experience collecting and recycling solar modules and certain assumptions regarding costs at the time the solar modules will be collected and recycled. If our estimates prove incorrect, we could be required to accrue additional expenses and could also face a significant unplanned cash burden at the time we realize our estimates are incorrect or end users return their modules, which could adversely affect our operating results. In addition, participating end users can return their modules covered under the collection and recycling program at any time. As a result, we could be required to collect and recycle covered CdTe solar modules earlier than we expect. Our failure to protect our intellectual property rights may undermine our competitive position, and litigation to protect our intellectual property rights or defend against third-party allegations of infringement may be costly. Protection of our proprietary processes, methods, and other technology is critical to our business. Failure to protect and monitor the use of our existing intellectual property rights could result in the loss of valuable technologies. We rely primarily on patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyrights, and contractual restrictions to protect our intellectual property. We regularly file patent applications to protect certain inventions arising from our R&D and are currently pursuing such patent applications in various countries in accordance with our strategy for intellectual property in that jurisdiction. Our existing patents and future patents could be challenged, invalidated, circumvented, or rendered unenforceable. Our pending patent applications may not result in issued patents, or if patents are issued to us, such patents may not be sufficient to provide meaningful protection against competitors or against competitive technologies. We also rely on unpatented proprietary manufacturing expertise, continuing technological innovation, and other trade secrets to develop and maintain our competitive position. Although we generally enter into confidentiality agreements with our associates and third parties to protect our intellectual property, such confidentiality agreements are limited in duration and could be breached and may not provide meaningful protection for our trade secrets or proprietary manufacturing expertise. Adequate remedies may not be available in the event of unauthorized use or disclosure of our trade secrets and manufacturing expertise. In addition, others may obtain knowledge of our trade secrets through independent development or legal means. The failure of our patents or confidentiality agreements to protect our processes, equipment, technology, trade secrets, and proprietary manufacturing expertise, methods, and compounds could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, effective patent, trademark, copyright, and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in some foreign countries, especially any developing countries into which we may expand our operations. In some countries, we have not applied for patent, trademark, or copyright protection. Third parties may infringe or misappropriate our proprietary technologies or other intellectual property rights, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and operating results. Policing unauthorized use of proprietary technology can be difficult and expensive. Additionally, litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights, protect our trade secrets, or determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. We cannot ensure that the outcome of such potential litigation will be in our favor, and such litigation may be costly and may divert management attention and other resources away from our business. An adverse determination in any such litigation may impair our intellectual property rights and may harm our business, prospects, and reputation. In addition, we have no insurance coverage against such litigation costs and would have to bear all costs arising from such litigation to the extent we are unable to recover them from other parties. If any future production lines are not built in line with committed schedules, it may adversely affect our future growth plans. If any future production lines do not achieve operating metrics similar to our existing production lines, our solar modules could perform below expectations and cause us to lose customers. If we are unable to systematically replicate our production lines over time and achieve operating metrics similar to our existing production lines, our manufacturing capacity could be substantially constrained, our manufacturing costs per watt could increase, and our growth could be limited. Such factors may result in lower net sales and lower net income than we anticipate. Future production lines could produce solar modules that have lower conversion 30 efficiencies, higher failure rates, and/or higher rates of degradation than solar modules from our existing production lines, and we could be unable to determine the cause of the lower operating metrics or develop and implement solutions to improve performance. We recently announced plans to expand our manufacturing capacity by 6.6 GW DC by constructing our third manufacturing facility in the U.S. and our first manufacturing facility in India. These new facilities are currently under construction and are expected to commence operations in the first half of 2023 and the second half of 2023, respectively. If we cannot successfully execute on our current capacity expansion plans, we may incur significant costs in excess of our current plans to invest $1.4 billion in the aggregate for these new facilities. If we are not able to effectively manage current or future expansion activities or realize their anticipated benefits, it may adversely impact our results of operations. Our substantial international operations subject us to a number of risks, including unfavorable political, regulatory, labor, and tax conditions in the United States and/or foreign countries. We have significant manufacturing, development, sales, and marketing operations both within and outside the United States and expect to continue to expand our operations worldwide. As a result, we are subject to the legal, political, social, tax, and regulatory requirements and economic conditions of many jurisdictions. Risks inherent to international operations include, but are not limited to, the following: • difficulty in enforcing agreements in foreign legal systems; • varying degrees of protection afforded to foreign investments in the countries in which we operate and irregular interpretations and enforcement of laws and regulations in such jurisdictions; • foreign countries may impose additional income and withholding taxes or otherwise tax our foreign operations, impose tariffs, or adopt other restrictions on foreign trade and investment, including currency exchange controls; • fluctuations in exchange rates may affect demand for our products and services and may adversely affect our profitability and cash flows in U.S. dollars to the extent that our net sales or our costs are denominated in a foreign currency and the cost associated with hedging the U.S. dollar equivalent of such exposures is prohibitive; the longer the duration of such foreign currency exposure, the greater the risk; • anti-corruption compliance issues, including the costs related to the mitigation of such risk; • risk of nationalization or other expropriation of private enterprises; • changes in general economic and political conditions in the countries in which we operate, including changes in government incentive provisions; • unexpected adverse changes in U.S. or foreign laws or regulatory requirements, including those with respect to environmental protection, import or export duties, and quotas; • opaque approval processes in which the lack of transparency may cause delays and increase the uncertainty of project approvals; • difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; • difficulty in repatriating earnings; 31 • difficulty in negotiating a successful collective bargaining agreement in applicable foreign jurisdictions; • trade barriers such as export requirements, tariffs, taxes, local content requirements, anti-dumping regulations and requirements, and other restrictions and expenses, which could increase the effective price of our solar modules and make us less competitive in some countries or increase the costs to perform under our existing contracts; and • difficulty of, and costs relating to, compliance with the different commercial and legal requirements of the overseas countries in which we offer and sell our solar modules. Our business in foreign markets requires us to respond to rapid changes in market conditions in these countries. Our overall success as a global business depends, in part, on our ability to succeed in differing legal, regulatory, economic, social, and political conditions. We may not be able to timely develop and implement policies and strategies that will be effective in each location where we do business. Project development or construction activities, which are primarily concentrated in Japan, may not be successful; projects under development may not receive required permits, community support, real property rights, power purchase agreements (“PPA”), interconnection, and transmission arrangements; or financing or construction may not commence or proceed as scheduled, which could increase our costs and impair our ability to recover our investments. Our residual business operations include certain project development activities that are primarily concentrated in Japan. The development and construction of solar energy generation facilities involve numerous risks. We may be required to spend significant sums for land and interconnection rights, preliminary engineering, permitting, lobbying, legal services, and other expenses before we can determine whether a project is feasible, economically attractive, or capable of being built. Success in developing a particular project is contingent upon, among other things: • obtaining and maintaining land rights for the project site, transmission lines, and environmental mitigation; • receipt from governmental agencies of required environmental, land-use, and construction and operation permits and approvals; • negotiation of development agreements, public benefit agreements, and other agreements to compensate local communities and governments for project impacts; • receipt of rights to interconnect the project to the electric grid or to transmit energy; • negotiation of satisfactory engineering, procurement, and construction (“EPC”) agreements with third-party EPC providers; • securing necessary rights of way for access and transmission lines; • obtaining financing, including debt, equity, and funds required for development and construction; and • payment of PPAs, interconnection, and other deposits or security (some of which are non-refundable). 32 Successful completion of a particular project may be adversely affected, delayed and/or rendered infeasible by numerous factors, including: • delays in obtaining and maintaining required governmental permits and approvals, including appeals of approvals obtained; • potential permit and litigation challenges from project stakeholders, including local residents, environmental organizations, labor organizations, and others who may oppose the project; • unforeseen engineering problems; • construction delays and contractor performance shortfalls; • cost over-runs; • labor, equipment, and material supply shortages, failures, or disruptions; • cost or schedule impacts arising from changes in regulatory policies and laws; • project delays that could adversely impact our ability to maintain interconnection rights; • additional complexities when conducting project development or construction activities in foreign jurisdictions (either on a stand-alone basis or in collaboration with local business partners), including operating in accordance with the FCPA and applicable local laws and customs; • adverse environmental and geological conditions; and • force majeure and other events out of our control. If we fail to achieve system-level capacity, or fail to meet other contract terms, we may be subject to forfeiture of significant deposits under PPAs or interconnection agreements or termination of such agreements, incur significant liquidated damages, penalties, and/or other obligations under other project related agreements, and may not be able to recover our investment in the project. If we are unable to complete the development of a solar energy project, we may impair some or all of these capitalized investments, which would have an adverse impact on our net income in the period in which the loss is recognized. Risks Related to Regulations Existing regulations and policies, changes thereto, and new regulations and policies may present technical, regulatory, and economic barriers to the purchase and use of PV solar products, which may significantly reduce demand for our modules. The market for electricity generation products is heavily influenced by federal, state, local, and foreign government regulations and policies concerning the electric utility industry, as well as policies promulgated by electric utilities. These regulations and policies often relate to electricity pricing and interconnection of customer-owned electricity generation. In the United States and certain other countries, these regulations and policies have been modified in the past and may be modified again in the future, which could deter end-user purchases of PV solar products and investment in the R&D of PV solar technology. For example, without a mandated regulatory exception for PV solar power systems, system owners are often charged interconnection or standby fees for putting distributed power generation on the electric utility grid. To the extent these interconnection standby fees are applicable to PV solar power systems, it is likely that they would increase the cost of such systems, which could make the systems less desirable, thereby adversely affecting our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 33 Our modules are often subject to oversight and regulation in accordance with national and local ordinances relating to building codes, safety, environmental protection, and other matters, and tracking the requirements of individual jurisdictions is complex. Any new government regulations or utility policies pertaining to our modules may result in significant additional expenses to us or our customers and, as a result, could cause a significant reduction in demand for our products. In addition, any regulatory compliance failure could result in significant management distraction, unplanned costs, and/or reputational damage. We could be adversely affected by any violations of the FCPA, the U.K. Bribery Act, and other foreign anti-bribery laws . The FCPA generally prohibits companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to non-U.S. government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Other countries in which we operate also have anti-bribery laws, some of which prohibit improper payments to government and non-government persons and entities, and others (e.g., the FCPA and the U.K. Bribery Act) extend their application to activities outside their country of origin. Our policies mandate compliance with all applicable anti-bribery laws. We currently operate in, and may further expand into, key parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree and, in certain circumstances, strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices. In addition, due to the level of regulation in our industry, our operations in certain jurisdictions, including China, India, South America, and the Middle East, require substantial government contact, either directly by us or through intermediaries over whom we have less direct control, such as subcontractors, agents, and partners (such as joint venture partners), where norms can differ from U.S. standards. Although we have implemented policies, procedures, and, in certain cases, contractual arrangements designed to facilitate compliance with these anti-bribery laws, our officers, directors, associates, subcontractors, agents, and partners may take actions in violation of our policies, procedures, contractual arrangements, and anti-bribery laws. Any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could subject us and such persons to criminal and/or civil penalties or other sanctions potentially by government prosecutors from more than one country, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows, and reputation. Environmental obligations and liabilities could have a substantial negative impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our operations involve the use, handling, generation, processing, storage, transportation, and disposal of hazardous materials and are subject to extensive environmental laws and regulations at the national, state, local, and international levels. These environmental laws and regulations include those governing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the use, management, and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes, the cleanup of contaminated sites, and occupational health and safety. As we expand our business into foreign jurisdictions worldwide, our environmental compliance burden may continue to increase both in terms of magnitude and complexity. We have incurred and may continue to incur significant costs in complying with these laws and regulations. In addition, violations of, or liabilities under, environmental laws or permits may result in restrictions being imposed on our operating activities or in our being subject to substantial fines, penalties, criminal proceedings, third-party property damage or personal injury claims, cleanup costs, or other costs. While we believe we are currently in substantial compliance with applicable environmental requirements, future developments such as more aggressive enforcement policies, the implementation of new, more stringent laws and regulations, or the discovery of presently unknown environmental conditions may require expenditures that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 34 Our solar modules contain CdTe and other semiconductor materials. Elemental cadmium and certain of its compounds are regulated as hazardous materials due to the adverse health effects that may arise from human exposure. Based on existing research, the risks of exposure to CdTe are not believed to be as serious as those relating to exposure to elemental cadmium due to CdTe’s limited bioavailability. In our manufacturing operations, we maintain engineering controls to minimize our associates’ exposure to cadmium compounds and require our associates who handle cadmium compounds to follow certain safety procedures, including the use of personal protective equipment such as respirators, chemical goggles, and protective clothing. Relevant studies and third-party peer reviews of our technology have concluded that the risk of exposure to cadmium or cadmium compounds from our end-products is negligible. In addition, the risk of exposure is further minimized by the encapsulated nature of these materials in our products, the physical properties of cadmium compounds used in our products, and the recycling or responsible disposal of our modules. While we believe that these factors and procedures are sufficient to protect our associates, end users, and the general public from adverse health effects that may arise from cadmium exposure, we cannot ensure that human or environmental exposure to cadmium or cadmium compounds used in our products will not occur. Any such exposure could result in future third-party claims against us, damage to our reputation, and heightened regulatory scrutiny, which could limit or impair our ability to sell and distribute our products. The occurrence of future events such as these could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The use of cadmium or cadmium compounds in various products is also coming under increasingly stringent governmental regulation. Future regulation in this area could impact the manufacturing, sale, collection, and recycling of solar modules and could require us to make unforeseen environmental expenditures or limit our ability to sell and distribute our products. For example, European Union Directive 2011/65/EU on the Restriction of the Use of Hazardous Substances (“RoHS”) in electrical and electronic equipment (the “RoHS Directive”) restricts the use of certain hazardous substances, including cadmium and its compounds, in all electronic equipment sold into the European market, unless excluded from the law. Currently, PV solar modules are explicitly excluded from the scope of RoHS (Article 2), as adopted in June 2011. Other jurisdictions have adopted similar legislation or are considering doing so. The next revision of the RoHS Directive is expected in 2022. If PV modules were to be included in the scope of future RoHS revisions without an exemption or exclusion, we would be required to redesign our solar modules to reduce cadmium and other affected hazardous substances to the maximum allowable concentration thresholds in the RoHS Directive in order to continue to offer them for sale within the EU. As such actions would be impractical, this type of regulatory development would effectively close the EU market to us, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. 35 General Risk Factors The COVID-19 pandemic could materially impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The COVID-19 pandemic has continued to have an unprecedented impact on the United States, Malaysia, Vietnam, India, and other countries throughout the world, including those in which we do business or have operations. The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic could impact us continues to be highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, and will depend largely on subsequent developments, including the severity and duration of the pandemic, measures taken to contain the spread of the virus, such as restrictions on travel and gatherings of people and temporary closures of or limitations on businesses and other commercial activities, and the timing and nature of policies implemented by governmental authorities to ease such measures. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and these related containment measures and reopening policies, we may be subject to significant risks, which have the potential to materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations, including the following: • we may at any time be ordered by governmental authorities, or we may determine, based on our understanding of the recommendations or orders of governmental authorities, that we have to curtail or cease business operations or activities, including manufacturing; • the failure of our suppliers or vendors to supply materials or equipment, or the failure of our vendors to install, repair, or replace our specialized equipment, due to the COVID-19 pandemic and related containment measures, may idle, slowdown, shutdown, or otherwise cause us to adjust our manufacturing capacity, and the availability and cost of logistics services associated with the procurement of raw materials or equipment used in our manufacturing process and the shipping, handling, storage, and distribution of our modules may require us to adjust our module manufacturing plans or module delivery commitments, which may result in additional unplanned charges. We have incurred manufacturing charges associated with the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic; • we perform substantial R&D to continue to improve our module wattage (or conversion efficiency), lower our module cost per watt, and otherwise keep pace with technological advances in the solar industry. The COVID-19 pandemic and related containment measures, including the unavailability of our personnel and third-party partners who are engaged in R&D activities, may inhibit our R&D efforts, our ability to timely advance or commercialize these efforts, or otherwise implement our technology roadmap (such as our CuRe program); and • the majority of our associates who are capable of performing their function remotely are telecommuting (i.e., working from home). While we have instituted security measures to minimize the likelihood and impact of a cybersecurity incident with respect to associates utilizing technological communications tools, these measures may be inadequate to prevent a cybersecurity breach because of the unprecedented number of associates using these tools. Any increase in the frequency or scope of cyber-attacks may exacerbate the aforementioned cybersecurity risks. In addition, while we have, among other things, established enhanced cleaning procedures at our facilities and protocols for responding when our associates are infected, we cannot assure these will be sufficient to mitigate the risks faced by our work force or the liability we may face as a result of any outbreaks of COVID-19. 36 If our long-lived assets or project related assets become impaired, we may be required to record significant charges to earnings. We may be required to record significant charges to earnings should we determine that our long-lived assets or project related assets are impaired. Such charges may have a material impact on our financial position and results of operations. We review long-lived and project related assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable. We consider a project commercially viable or recoverable if it is anticipated to be sold for a profit once it is either fully developed or fully constructed or if the expected operating cash flows from future power generation exceed the cost basis of the asset. If our projects are not considered commercially viable, we would be required to impair the respective assets. Cyber-attacks or other breaches of our information systems, or those of third parties with which we do business, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our operations rely on our computer systems, hardware, software, and networks, as well as those of third parties with which we do business, to securely process, store, and transmit proprietary, confidential, and other information, including intellectual property and personal identifiable information. We also rely heavily on these information systems to operate our manufacturing lines. These information systems may be compromised by cyber-attacks, computer viruses, and other events that could be materially disruptive to our business operations and could put the security of our information, and that of the third parties with which we do business, at risk of misappropriation or destruction. In recent years, such cyber incidents have become increasingly frequent and sophisticated, targeting or otherwise affecting a wide range of companies. While we have instituted security measures and procured insurance to minimize the likelihood and impact of a cyber incident, there is no assurance that these measures, or those of the third parties with which we do business, will be adequate in the future. If these measures fail, valuable information may be lost; our operations may be disrupted; we may be unable to fulfill our customer obligations; and our reputation may suffer. For example, any cyber incident affecting our automated manufacturing lines could adversely affect our ability to produce solar modules or otherwise affect the quality and performance of the modules produced. We may also be subject to litigation, regulatory action, remedial expenses, and financial losses beyond the scope or limits of our insurance coverage. These consequences of a failure of security measures could, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, the vast majority of our associates who are capable of performing their function remotely are telecommuting, which may exacerbate the aforementioned cybersecurity risks. See the Risk Factor entitled “The COVID-19 pandemic could materially impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations.” If we are unable to attract, train, retain, and successfully integrate key personnel into our management team, our business may be materially and adversely affected. Our future success depends, to a significant extent, on our ability to attract, train, and retain management, operations, sales, and technical personnel, including personnel in foreign jurisdictions. Recruiting and retaining capable personnel, particularly those with expertise in the PV solar industry across a variety of technologies, are vital to our success. We are also dependent on the services of our executive officers and other members of our senior management team. The loss of one or more of these key associates or any other member of our senior management team could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may not be able to retain or replace these key associates and may not have adequate succession plans in place. Several of our current key associates, including our executive officers, are subject to employment conditions or arrangements that contain post-employment non-competition provisions. However, these arrangements permit the associates to terminate their employment with us upon little or no notice. 37 There is substantial competition for qualified technical and manufacturing personnel, and while we continue to benchmark our organization against the broad spectrum of business in our market space to remain economically competitive, there can be no assurances that we will be able to attract and retain our technical personnel. As we continue to expand domestically and internationally, we may encounter regional laws that mandate union representation or associates who desire union representation or a collective bargaining agreement. If we are unable to attract and retain qualified associates, or otherwise experience unexpected labor disruptions within our business, we may be materially and adversely affected. We may be exposed to infringement or misappropriation claims by third parties, which, if determined adversely to us, could cause us to pay significant damage awards or prohibit us from the manufacture and sale of our solar modules or the use of our technology. Our success depends largely on our ability to use and develop our technology and know-how without infringing or misappropriating the intellectual property rights of third parties. The validity and scope of claims relating to PV solar technology patents involve complex scientific, legal, and factual considerations and analysis and, therefore, may be highly uncertain. We may be subject to litigation involving claims of patent infringement or violation of intellectual property rights of third parties. The defense and prosecution of intellectual property suits, patent opposition proceedings, and related legal and administrative proceedings can be both costly and time consuming and may significantly divert the efforts and resources of our technical and management personnel. An adverse determination in any such litigation or proceedings to which we may become a party could subject us to significant liability to third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties, which may not be available on reasonable terms, or at all, or pay ongoing royalties, require us to redesign our solar modules, or subject us to injunctions prohibiting the manufacture and sale of our solar modules or the use of our technologies. Protracted litigation could also result in our customers or potential customers deferring or limiting their purchase or use of our solar modules until the resolution of such litigation. Currency translation and transaction risk may negatively affect our results of operations. Although our reporting currency is the U.S. dollar, we conduct certain business and incur costs in the local currency of most countries in which we operate. As a result, we are subject to currency translation and transaction risk. For example, certain of our net sales in 2021 were denominated in foreign currencies, such as Japanese yen and Euro, and we expect to continue to have net sales denominated in foreign currencies in the future. Certain business arrangements with strategic partners outside the United States have involved and may involve significant investments denominated in local currencies. Changes in exchange rates between foreign currencies and the U.S. dollar could affect our results of operations and result in exchange gains or losses. We cannot accurately predict the impact of future exchange rate fluctuations on our results of operations. We could also expand our business into emerging markets, many of which have an uncertain regulatory environment relating to currency policy. Conducting business in such emerging markets could cause our exposure to changes in exchange rates to increase, due to the relatively high volatility associated with emerging market currencies and potentially longer payment terms for our proceeds. Our ability to hedge foreign currency exposure is dependent on our credit profile with the banks that are willing and able to do business with us. Deterioration in our credit position or a significant tightening of the credit market conditions could limit our ability to hedge our foreign currency exposures; and therefore, result in exchange gains or losses. 38 Unanticipated changes in our tax provision, the enactment of new tax legislation, or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could affect our profitability. We are subject to income taxes in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. Accordingly, we are subject to a variety of tax laws and interpretations of such laws by local tax authorities. For example, in March 2020, the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (the “CARES Act”) was signed into U.S. law. The final effects of the CARES Act may differ from the amounts provided elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, possibly materially, due to, among other things, any legislative action to address questions that arise because of the CARES Act and any changes in accounting standards for income taxes or related interpretations in response to the CARES Act or actions we may take as a result of the CARES Act. Additionally, in January 2022, the U.S. government published new regulations in the U.S. Federal Register to address various aspects of foreign tax credit regimes, including, among other things, guidance related to the disallowance of credits or deductions for foreign income taxes. These regulations, which are effective in March 2022, contain certain provisions that are applicable for periods prior to the effective date, and the final effects could result in material income tax expense in future periods. Furthermore, longstanding international tax laws that determine each country’s jurisdictional tax rights in cross-border international trade continue to evolve as a result of the base erosion and profit shifting reporting requirements recommended by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development. Changes to these and other tax laws and regulations could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We are subject to potential tax examinations in various jurisdictions, and taxing authorities may disagree with our interpretations of U.S. and foreign tax laws and may assess additional taxes. We regularly assess the likely outcomes of these examinations in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision; however, the outcome of tax examinations cannot be predicted with certainty. Therefore, the amounts ultimately paid upon resolution of such examinations could be materially different from the amounts previously included in our income tax provision, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. In addition, our future effective tax rate could be adversely affected by changes to our operating structure, losses of tax holidays, changes in the jurisdictional mix of earnings among countries with tax holidays or differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws, and the discovery of new information in the course of our tax return preparation process. Any changes in our effective tax rate may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial conditions, and results of operations. We have been and may be subject to or involved in litigation or threatened litigation, the outcome of which may be difficult to predict, and which may be costly to defend, divert management attention, require us to pay damages, or restrict the operation of our business. From time to time, we have been and may be subject to disputes and litigation, with and without merit, that may be costly and which may divert the attention of our management and our resources in general, whether or not any dispute actually proceeds to litigation. The results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict. Moreover, complaints filed against us may not specify the amount of damages that plaintiffs seek, and we therefore may be unable to estimate the possible range of damages that might be incurred should these lawsuits be resolved against us. Even if we are able to estimate losses related to these actions, the ultimate amount of loss may be materially higher than our estimates. Any resolution of litigation, or threatened litigation, could involve the payment of damages or expenses by us, which may be significant or involve an agreement with terms that restrict the operation of our business. Even if any future lawsuits are not resolved against us, the costs of defending such lawsuits may be significant. These costs may exceed the dollar limits of our insurance policies or may not be covered at all by our insurance policies. Because the price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, volatile, we can provide no assurance that additional securities or other litigation will not be filed against us in the future. See Note 13. “Commitments and Contingencies – Legal Proceedings” to our consolidated financial statements for more information on our legal proceedings. 39 Changes in, or any failure to comply with, privacy laws, regulations, and standards may adversely affect our business. Personal privacy and data security have become significant issues in the United States, Europe, and in many other jurisdictions in which we operate. The regulatory framework for privacy and security issues worldwide is rapidly evolving and is likely to remain uncertain for the foreseeable future. Furthermore, federal, state, or foreign government bodies or agencies have in the past adopted, and may in the future adopt, laws and regulations affecting data privacy, all of which may be subject to invalidation by relevant foreign judicial bodies. Industry organizations also regularly adopt and advocate for new standards in this area. In the United States, these include rules and regulations promulgated or pending under the authority of federal agencies, state attorneys general, legislatures, and consumer protection agencies. Internationally, many jurisdictions in which we operate have established their own data security and privacy legal framework with which we, relevant suppliers, and customers must comply. For example, the General Data Protection Regulation, a broad-based data privacy regime enacted by the European Parliament, which became effective in May 2018, imposes new requirements on how we collect, process, transfer, and store personal data, and also imposes additional obligations, potential penalties, and risk upon our business. Additionally, the California Consumer Privacy Act, which became effective in January 2020, imposes similar data privacy requirements. In many jurisdictions, enforcement actions and consequences for noncompliance are also rising. In addition to government regulation, privacy advocates and industry groups may propose new and different self-regulatory standards that either legally or contractually apply to us. Although we have implemented policies, procedures, and, in certain cases, contractual arrangements designed to facilitate compliance with applicable privacy and data security laws and standards, any inability or perceived inability to adequately address privacy and security concerns, even if unfounded, or comply with applicable privacy and data security laws, regulations, and policies, could result in additional fines, costs, and liabilities to us, damage our reputation, inhibit sales, and adversely affect our business. Our Amended and Restated Bylaws designate a state or federal court located within the State of Delaware as the exclusive forum for substantially all disputes between us and our stockholders, and the federal district courts of the United States as the exclusive forum for the resolution of any complaint asserting a cause of action under the Securities Act of 1933, which could limit our stockholders’ ability to choose the judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, employees, agents or stockholders. Our Amended and Restated Bylaws (“Bylaws”) provide that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware (or, if the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware lacks subject matter jurisdiction, the federal district court for the District of Delaware) is the sole and exclusive forum for (i) any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, (ii) any action or proceeding asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors, officers, other employees, agents or stockholders to us or our stockholders, (iii) any action or proceeding against us or any of our directors, officers, other employees, agents or stockholders arising pursuant to any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law (“DGCL”), our Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or our Bylaws, (iv) any action or proceeding against us or any of our directors, officers or other employees asserting a claim that is governed by the internal affairs doctrine, or (v) any action or proceeding asserting an “internal corporate claim,” as defined in the DGCL. Our Bylaws also provide that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the federal district courts of the United States are the exclusive forum for resolving any complaint asserting a cause of action under the Securities Act. Nothing in our Bylaws precludes stockholders that assert claims under the Exchange Act from bringing such claims in any court, subject to applicable law. 40 Any person or entity holding, owning or otherwise acquiring any interest in any of our securities shall be deemed to have notice of and consented to these provisions. These exclusive forum provisions may limit a stockholder’s ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum of its choosing for disputes with us or our directors, officers, other employees, agents or stockholders, which may discourage lawsuits against us and our directors, officers, other employees, agents or stockholders. The enforceability of similar choice of forum provisions in other companies’ governing documents has been challenged in legal proceedings, and it is possible that a court could find these types of provisions to be inapplicable or unenforceable. For example, in December 2018, the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware determined that a provision stating that federal district courts of the United States are the exclusive forum for resolving any complaint asserting a cause of action arising under the Securities Act is not enforceable. Although this decision was reversed by the Delaware Supreme Court in March 2020, courts in other states may still find these provisions to be inapplicable or unenforceable. If a court were to find the exclusive forum provisions in our Bylaws to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving the dispute in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our results of operations.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes thereto included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In addition to historical financial information, the following discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties, and assumptions as described under the “Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” that appears earlier in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated by these forward-looking statements as a result of many factors, including those discussed under Item 1A. “Risk Factors,” and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form    10-K. This discussion and analysis does not address certain items in respect of the year ended December 31, 2019 in reliance on amendments to disclosure requirements adopted by the SEC in 2019. See Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020 for comparative discussions of our results of operations and liquidity and capital resources for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019. Executive Overview We are a leading American solar technology company and global provider of PV solar energy solutions. Developed at our R&D labs in California and Ohio, we manufacture and sell PV solar modules with an advanced thin film semiconductor technology that provide a high-performance, lower-carbon alternative to conventional crystalline silicon PV solar modules. From raw material sourcing through end-of-life module recycling, we are committed to reducing the environmental impacts and enhancing the social and economic benefits of our products across their life cycle. We are the world’s largest thin film PV solar module manufacturer and the largest PV solar module manufacturer in the Western Hemisphere. Certain of our financial results and other key operational developments for the year ended December 31, 2021 include the following: • Net sales for 2021 increased by 8% to $2.9 billion compared to $2.7 billion in 2020. The increase in net sales was primarily attributable to an increase in the volume of modules sold to third parties, the sales of certain projects in the United States and Japan in the current period, and the settlement of an outstanding indemnification arrangement associated with the sale of one of our projects, partially offset by the sales of certain projects in Japan, the United States, and India in the prior period and a decrease in the average selling price per watt. See Note 13. “Commitments and Contingencies” to our consolidated financial statements for discussion of our indemnification arrangements. • Gross profit decreased 0.1 percentage points to 25.0% in 2021 from 25.1% in 2020 primarily due to a decrease in the average selling price per watt of our modules, the volume of higher gross profit projects sold during the prior period, and an increase in logistics costs, partially offset by continued module cost reductions and the indemnification matter mentioned above. • As of December 31, 2021 we had 7.9 GW DC of total installed nameplate module production capacity across all our facilities. We produced 7.9 GW DC of solar modules during 2021, which represented a 34% increase in Series 6 module production from 2020. The increase in Series 6 production was primarily driven by the incremental Series 6 production capacity added in Malaysia in early 2021 and higher throughput at our manufacturing facilities. We expect to produce between 8.2 GW DC and 8.8 GW DC of Series 6 and Series 6 Plus modules during 2022. • During 2021, we announced plans to expand our manufacturing capacity by 6.6 GW DC by constructing our third manufacturing facility in the U.S. and our first manufacturing facility in India. These new facilities are expected to commence operations in the first half of 2023 and the second half of 2023, respectively. 44 • Following an evaluation of the long-term cost structure, competitiveness, and risk-adjusted returns of our O&M services business, we received an offer to purchase certain portions of the business and determined it was in the best interest of our stockholders to pursue this transaction. Accordingly, in August 2020, we entered into an agreement with a subsidiary of Clairvest Group, Inc. (“Clairvest”) for the sale of our North American O&M operations. We completed the transaction in March 2021. Following certain customary post-closing adjustments, we received total consideration of $149.1 million. As a result of this transaction, we recognized a gain of $115.8 million, net of transaction costs and post-closing adjustments, which is presented in “Gain on sales of businesses, net” in our consolidated statements of operations for the year ended December 31, 2021. • Following a separate evaluation of the long-term cost structure, competitiveness, and risk-adjusted returns of our U.S. project development business, we determined it was also in the best interest of our stockholders to pursue the sale of this business. In January 2021, we entered into an agreement with Leeward Renewable Energy Development, LLC (“Leeward”), a subsidiary of the Ontario Municipal Employees Retirement System, for the sale of our U.S. project development business, which included developing, contracting for the construction of, and selling utility-scale PV solar power systems in the United States. The transaction included our approximately 10 GW AC utility-scale solar project pipeline, including the advanced-stage Horizon, Madison, Ridgely, Rabbitbrush, and Oak Trail projects; the 30 MW AC Barilla Solar project, which is operational; and certain other equipment. In addition, Leeward agreed to certain module purchase commitments. We completed the transaction in March 2021 for an aggregate purchase price of $284.0 million. Such purchase price included $151.4 million for the sale of the U.S. project development business and $132.6 million for the sale of 392 MW DC of solar modules, which is presented in “Net sales” on our consolidated statements of operations for the year ended December 31, 2021. As a result of this transaction, we recognized a gain of $31.5 million, net of transaction costs and post-closing adjustments, which is presented in “Gain on sales of businesses, net” in our consolidated statements of operations for the year ended December 31, 2021. • In late 2021, we received an offer to purchase our project development and O&M services businesses in Japan and determined it was in the best interest of our stockholders to pursue this transaction. As a result, we expect to enter into an agreement for the sale of these businesses in the near term. The completion of the transaction is contingent on the completion of final contract negotiations and the achievement of certain closing conditions. Assuming satisfaction of such items, we expect the sale to be completed in the first half of 2022. Market Overview Global solar markets continue to expand and develop, in part aided by demand elasticity resulting from declining average selling prices, both at the module and system levels, which has promoted the widespread adoption of solar energy. As a result of such market opportunities, we recently announced plans to expand our manufacturing capacity by 6.6 GW DC by constructing our third manufacturing facility in the U.S. and our first manufacturing facility in India. These new facilities, which we expect to produce our next generation Series 7 modules, are currently under construction and are expected to commence operations in the first half of 2023 and the second half of 2023, respectively. In the aggregate, we believe manufacturers of solar cells and modules, particularly those in China, have significant installed production capacity, relative to global demand, and the ability for additional capacity expansion. Accordingly, we believe the solar industry may experience periods of structural imbalance between supply and demand (i.e., where production capacity exceeds global demand), and that excess capacity will also put pressure on pricing. In light of such market realities, we continue to focus on our strategies and points of differentiation, which include our advanced module technology, our manufacturing process, our research and development capabilities, the sustainability advantage of our modules, and our financial stability. The solar industry continues to be characterized by intense pricing competition, both at the module and system levels. This competition may result in an environment in which pricing falls rapidly, thereby potentially increasing 45 demand for solar energy solutions but constraining the ability for project developers and module manufacturers to sustain meaningful and consistent profitability. Although module average selling prices in many global markets have declined for several years, recent module spot pricing has increased, in part, due to elevated commodity and freight costs. For example, the price of polysilicon has significantly increased in recent months due to a coal shortage in China, which resulted in higher energy prices and the Chinese government mandating power restrictions that led to curtailments of silicon metal production. Given the majority of global polysilicon capacity is located in China, such higher energy prices and reduced operating capacities have adversely affected the supply of polysilicon, contributing to an increase in polysilicon pricing. In response to such supply shortage, certain other Chinese-based producers of polysilicon are in the process of expanding their production capacity, which is expected to reduce the price of polysilicon in future periods. Accordingly, while the duration of this elevated period of spot pricing is uncertain, module average selling prices in global markets are expected to continue to decline in the long-term. Competitive pricing for modules and systems, relative to the cost of traditional forms of energy generation, is expected to contribute to diversification in global electricity generation and further demand for solar energy. Over time, however, declining average selling prices may adversely affect our results of operations to the extent we have not already entered into contracts for future module sales. Our results of operations could also be adversely affected if competitors reduce pricing to levels below their costs, bid aggressively low prices for module sale agreements, or are able to operate at minimal or negative operating margins for sustained periods of time. For certain of our competitors, including many in China, these practices may be enabled by their direct or indirect access to sovereign capital or other forms of state-owned support. In certain markets in California and elsewhere, an oversupply imbalance at the grid level may reduce short-to-medium term demand for new solar installations relative to prior years, lower pricing for PPAs, and lower margins on module and system sales to such markets. However, we believe the effects of such imbalance can be mitigated by modern solar power plants and energy storage solutions that offer a flexible operating profile, thereby promoting greater grid stability and enabling a higher penetration of solar energy. We continue to address these uncertainties, in part, by executing on our module technology improvements and implementing certain other cost reduction initiatives. We face intense competition from manufacturers of crystalline silicon solar modules. Solar module manufacturers compete with one another on sales price per watt, which may be influenced by several module value attributes, including wattage (through a larger form factor or an improved conversion efficiency), energy yield, degradation, sustainability, reliability, warranty terms, and customer payment terms. While conventional solar modules, including the solar modules we currently produce, are monofacial, meaning their ability to produce energy is a function of direct and diffuse irradiance on their front side, most module manufacturers offer bifacial modules that also capture diffuse irradiance on the back side of a module. Bifaciality compromises nameplate efficiency, but by converting both front and rear side irradiance, such technology may improve the overall energy production of a module relative to nameplate efficiency when applied in certain applications, which could potentially lower the overall LCOE of a system when compared to systems using conventional solar modules, including the modules we currently produce. Additionally, certain module manufacturers recently introduced n-type mono-crystalline modules, such as TOPCon modules, which are expected to provide certain improvements to module efficiency, temperature coefficient, and bifacial performance, and claim to provide certain degradation advantages compared to other mono-crystalline modules. We believe we are among the lowest cost module manufacturers in the solar industry on a module cost per watt basis, based on publicly available information. This cost competitiveness allows us to compete favorably in markets where pricing for modules and systems is highly competitive. Our cost competitiveness is based in large part on our advanced thin-film semiconductor technology, module wattage (or conversion efficiency), proprietary manufacturing process (which enables us to produce a CdTe module in a matter of hours using a continuous and highly automated industrial manufacturing process, as opposed to a batch process), and our focus on operational excellence. In addition, our CdTe modules use approximately 2% of the amount of semiconductor material that is used to manufacture conventional crystalline silicon solar modules. The cost of polysilicon is a significant driver of the manufacturing cost of crystalline silicon solar modules, and the timing and rate of change in the cost of silicon feedstock and polysilicon could lead to changes in solar module pricing levels. In recent years, polysilicon 46 consumption per cell has been reduced through various initiatives, such as the adoption of diamond wire saw technology, which have contributed to declines in our relative manufacturing cost competitiveness over conventional crystalline silicon module manufacturers. In terms of performance, in many climates our solar modules provide certain energy production advantages relative to competing crystalline silicon modules. For more information about these advantages, see Item 1. “Business – Business Strategy.” Additionally, we warrant that our solar modules will produce at least 98% of their labeled power output rating during the first year, with the warranty coverage reducing by a degradation factor between 0.3% and 0.5%, depending on the module series, every year thereafter throughout the limited power output warranty period of up to 30 years. Following the implementation of our CuRe program, we expect the warranted degradation of our modules to decline to 0.2% per year in the near term. As a result of these and other factors, our solar modules can produce more annual energy in real world operating conditions than conventional crystalline silicon modules with the same nameplate capacity. For more information about the risks associated with our CuRe program, see Item 1A. “Risk Factors – Our failure to further refine our technology and develop and introduce improved PV products, including as a result of delays in implementing planned advancements, could render our solar modules uncompetitive and reduce our net sales, profitability, and/or market share. ” While our modules are generally competitive in cost, reliability, and performance attributes, there can be no guarantee such competitiveness will continue to exist in the future to the same extent or at all. Any declines in the competitiveness of our products could result in further declines in the average selling prices of our modules and additional margin compression. We continue to focus on enhancing the competitiveness of our solar modules by accelerating progress along our module technology and cost reduction roadmaps. Certain Trends and Uncertainties We believe that our business, financial condition, and results of operations may be favorably or unfavorably impacted by the following trends and uncertainties. See Item 1A. “Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for discussions of other risks that may affect us. Our business is evolving worldwide and is shaped by the varying ways in which our offerings can be compelling and economically viable solutions to energy needs in various markets. In addressing such demand for electricity, we are focusing on providing utility-scale module offerings in key geographic markets that we believe have a compelling need for mass-scale PV solar electricity, including markets throughout the United States, India, Europe, and Japan. We closely evaluate and monitor the appropriate level of resources required to support such markets and their associated sales opportunities. When deployed in utility-scale applications, our modules provide energy at a lower LCOE compared to traditional forms of energy generation, making them an attractive alternative to or replacement for aging fossil fuel-based generation resources. Based on publicly available information, retirements of coal generation plants in the United States alone are expected to approximate 50 GW DC over the next ten years, representing a significant increase in the potential market for solar energy in the near term. This focus on utility-scale module offerings exists within a current market environment that includes rooftop and distributed generation solar, particularly in the United States. While it is unclear how rooftop and distributed generation solar might impact our core offerings over the next several years, we believe that utility-scale solar will continue to be a compelling offering for companies with technology and cost leadership and will continue to represent an increasing portion of the overall electricity generation mix. However, our module offerings in certain markets may be driven, in part, by future demand for rooftop and distributed generation solar solutions. Demand for our PV solar module offerings depends, in part, on market factors outside our control, such as the availability of debt and/or equity financing (including, in the United States, tax equity financing), interest rate fluctuations, domestic or international trade policies, government regulations, and government support programs. Many governments have proposed policies or support programs intended to encourage renewable energy investments. Such support programs may include additional incentives over several years for renewable energy 47 projects or manufacturers of renewable energy products. For example, during 2021 legislation was introduced in the U.S. Congress to incentivize domestic solar manufacturing and accelerate the transition to clean energy by providing tax credits for U.S. solar manufacturers and project developers. Among other things, such proposed legislation extends the investment tax credit up to 40% for 10 years for solar projects that satisfy certain domestic content, labor, and wage requirements; introduces certain refundable tax credits for solar module components manufactured in the U.S.; revives certain tax credits for capital investments in the manufacturing of solar module components; and expands the scope of production tax credits for energy storage projects. At this time, it is unclear whether and to what extent such measures will be enacted into law. If such legislation is successfully signed into law, or other similar policies or support programs are enacted, it could positively impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. While we compete in many markets that do not require solar-specific government subsidies or support programs, our net sales and profits remain subject to variability based on the availability and size of government subsidies and economic incentives. Adverse changes in these factors could increase the cost of utility-scale systems, which could reduce demand for our PV solar modules. We generally price and sell our solar modules on a per watt basis. As of December 31, 2021, we had entered into contracts with customers for the future sale of 21.9 GW DC of solar modules for an aggregate transaction price of $ 5.9 billion, which we expect to recognize as revenue through 2025 as we transfer control of the modules to the customers. Such volume includes contracts for the sale of 7.3 GW DC of solar modules that include transaction price adjustments associated with future module technology improvements, including new product designs and enhancements to certain energy related attributes. Based on these potential technology improvements, the contracted module volumes as of December 31, 2021, and the expected timing of module deliveries, such adjustments, if realized, could result in additional revenue of up to $0.2 billion, the majority of which would be recognized in 2023. In addition to these price adjustments, certain of our contracts with customers may also include favorable price adjustments for the proposed extension of the U.S. investment tax credit described above. Our ability to provide PV solar modules on economically attractive terms is also affected by the availability and cost of logistics services associated with the procurement of raw materials or equipment used in our manufacturing process and the shipping, handling, storage, and distribution of our modules. For example, the cost of ocean freight throughout many parts of the world has continued to increase due to the limited availability of shipping containers, increased port congestion resulting from labor shortages, an increase in cancellations of shipments by logistics providers, and elevated fuel costs. Such factors may disrupt our supply chain and adversely impact our manufacturing operations as several of our key raw materials and components are either single-sourced or sourced from a limited number of suppliers. In response to these disruptions, we have accommodated certain requests for delayed shipments in an effort to manage our shipping routes and mitigate our exposure to uncontracted freight rates. Additionally, due to ongoing schedule reliability issues with many operating ships, we are adjusting our shipping plans to include additional lead time for module deliveries and utilizing our U.S. distribution network to better meet our customer commitments. For certain contracts with customers, we have also started employing module contract structures that provide additional consideration to us if logistic costs exceed a defined threshold. Additionally, our manufacturing capacity expansions in the U.S. and India are expected to bring manufacturing activities closer to customer demand, further mitigating our exposure to the cost of ocean freight. While it is currently unclear how long these issues will persist, they may be further exacerbated by the disruption of major shipping routes or other economic disruptions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. We continue to invest significant financial resources in R&D initiatives, including in efforts to enhance module performance such as our CuRe program. However, our CuRe program has encountered certain challenges in achieving full module performance entitlement in high volume manufacturing conditions, which, together with COVID-19 related travel restrictions, quarantine requirements, and government orders impacting our ability to upgrade tooling to support our CuRe program at our manufacturing facilities in Malaysia and Vietnam, has resulted in delays in implementing our CuRe program. We previously revised our expected integration schedule to early 2022 for our lead line implementation. Our ability to implement our CuRe program by such time will be based on the results of a series of production tests in high volume manufacturing conditions. This and further testing will ultimately inform our lead line implementation timing and our subsequent fleet-wide replication schedule. In 48 connection with the aforementioned challenges, we have amended or will endeavor to amend certain customer contracts for modules utilizing CuRe technology, including by potentially making certain price concessions and substituting our other modules for the modules with CuRe technology that were expected to be delivered under the terms of the original customer contracts. For more information about the risks associated with our CuRe program, see Item 1A. “Risk Factors - Our failure to further refine our technology and develop and introduce improved PV products, including as a result of delays in implementing planned advancements, could render our solar modules uncompetitive and reduce our net sales, profitability, and/or market share.” On occasion, we have elected to temporarily own and operate certain PV solar power systems with the intention to sell them at a later date. As of December 31, 2021 and 2020, the recoverability of our Luz del Norte PV solar power plant was based, in part, on the likelihood of our continued ownership and operation of the system. However, it is reasonably possible that our intent to hold the asset may change in the near term due to our evaluation of strategic sale opportunities for the system. The pursuit of such opportunities, which require coordination with the system’s lenders, may result in a determination that the carrying value of the system is not recoverable based on the probability-weighted undiscounted future cash flows, which in turn could result in a possible impairment of the system in future periods. Accordingly, any changes in our expected use of the asset or its disposition may result in impairment charges that could be material to our consolidated financial statements and have a significant adverse impact on our results of operations. We continually evaluate forecasted global demand, competition, and our addressable market and seek to effectively balance manufacturing capacity with market demand and the nature and extent of our competition. We continue to increase the nameplate production capacity of our existing manufacturing facilities by improving our production throughput, increasing module wattage (or conversion efficiency), and improving manufacturing yield losses. Additionally, we recently announced plans to expand our manufacturing capacity by 6.6 GW DC by constructing our third manufacturing facility in the U.S. and our first manufacturing facility in India. Such additional capacity, and any other potential investments to add or otherwise modify our existing manufacturing capacity in response to market demand and competition, may require significant internal and possibly external sources of capital, and may be subject to certain risks and uncertainties described in Item 1A. “Risk Factors,” including those described under the headings “Our future success depends on our ability to effectively balance manufacturing production with market demand, convert existing production facilities to support new product lines, decrease our cost per watt, and, when necessary, continue to build new manufacturing plants over time in response to market demand, all of which are subject to risks and uncertainties” and “If any future production lines are not built in line with committed schedules, it may adversely affect our future growth plans. If any future production lines do not achieve operating metrics similar to our existing production lines, our solar modules could perform below expectations and cause us to lose customers.” In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, governmental authorities have recommended or ordered the limitation or cessation of certain business or commercial activities in jurisdictions in which we do business or have operations. While some of these orders permit the continuation of essential business operations, or permit the performance of minimum business activities, these orders are subject to continuous revision or may be revoked or superseded, or our understanding of the applicability of these orders and exemptions may change at any time. In addition, due to contraction of the virus, or concerns about becoming ill from the virus, we may experience reductions in the availability of our operational workforce, such as our manufacturing personnel. As a result, we may at any time be ordered by governmental authorities, or we may determine, based on our understanding of the recommendations or orders of governmental authorities or the availability of our personnel, that we have to curtail or cease business operations or activities altogether, including manufacturing, fulfillment, research and development activities, the implementation of our technology roadmap (such as certain Series 6 Plus manufacturing upgrades in Vietnam and our CuRe program), or construction activities associated with our expanding manufacturing capacity. At this time, such limitations have had a minimal effect on our manufacturing facilities, with the exception of the aforementioned technology roadmap delays, and we have implemented a wide range of safety measures intended to enable the continuity of our operations and inhibit the spread of COVID-19 at our manufacturing, administrative, and other sites and facilities, including those in the United States, Malaysia, and Vietnam. 49 While we continue to work with relevant government agencies in Malaysia and Vietnam to allow the essential travel of personnel that support the implementation of our technology roadmap, such implementation may be delayed, and in the case of our CuRe program has been delayed, due to travel restrictions, quarantine requirements, other government orders, or increases in COVID-19 infection rates. See Item 1A. Risk Factors – “The COVID-19 pandemic could materially impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations.” Results of Operations The following table sets forth our consolidated statements of operations as a percentage of net sales for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020, and 2019: Segment Overview Our primary segment is our modules business, which involves the design, manufacture, and sale of CdTe solar modules, which convert sunlight into electricity. Third-party customers of our modules segment include developers and operators of PV solar power systems. Our residual business operations include certain project development activities and O&M services, which are primarily concentrated in Japan, as well as the results of operations from PV solar power systems we own and operate in certain international regions. For the year ended December 31, 2021, we changed our reportable segments to align with revisions to our internal reporting structure and long-term strategic plans. Following this change, our modules business represents our only reportable segment. We previously operated our business in two segments, which included our modules and systems businesses. Systems business activities primarily involved (i) project development, (ii) EPC services, and (iii) O&M services, which now comprise our residual business operations and are categorized as “Other” in the tables below. All prior year balances were revised to conform to the current year presentation. 50 Net sales We generally price and sell our solar modules on a per watt basis. During 2021, SB Energy accounted for more than 10% of our modules business net sales, and the majority of our solar modules were sold to developers and operators of systems in the United States. Substantially all of our modules business net sales during 2021 were denominated in U.S. dollars. We recognize revenue for module sales at a point in time following the transfer of control of the modules to the customer, which typically occurs upon shipment or delivery depending on the terms of the underlying contracts. The revenue recognition policies for module sales are further described in Note 2. “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to our consolidated financial statements. Net sales from our residual business operations primarily consists of revenue recognized for sales of development projects or completed systems, including any modules installed in such systems and any revenue from energy generated by such systems. In certain prior periods, our residual business operations also included EPC services we provided to third parties. The following table shows net sales by reportable segment for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020, and 2019: Net sales from our modules segment increased by $595.3 million in 2021 primarily due to a 48% increase in the volume of watts sold, partially offset by a 10% decrease in the average selling price per watt. Net sales from our residual business operations decreased by $383.3 million in 2021 primarily due to the sales of certain projects in Japan, the United States, and India in the prior period and the completion of substantially all construction activities at a project in the United States in 2020, partially offset by the sales of certain projects in the United States and Japan in the current period and the settlement of an outstanding indemnification arrangement associated with the sale of one of our projects. Under the terms of the indemnification arrangement, we received $65.1 million for our portion of the settlement payment, which we recorded as revenue during 2021. See Note 13. “Commitments and Contingencies” to our consolidated financial statements for discussion of our indemnification arrangements. Cost of sales Our modules business cost of sales includes the cost of raw materials and components for manufacturing solar modules, such as glass, transparent conductive coatings, CdTe and other thin film semiconductors, laminate materials, connector assemblies, edge seal materials, and frames. In addition, our cost of sales includes direct labor for the manufacturing of solar modules and manufacturing overhead, such as engineering, equipment maintenance, quality and production control, and information technology. Our cost of sales also includes depreciation of manufacturing plant and equipment, facility-related expenses, environmental health and safety costs, and costs associated with shipping, warranties, and solar module collection and recycling (excluding accretion). Cost of sales for our residual business operations primarily consists of project-related costs, such as development costs (legal, consulting, transmission upgrade, interconnection, permitting, and other similar costs), EPC costs (consisting primarily of solar modules, inverters, electrical and mounting hardware, project management and engineering, and construction labor), and site specific costs. 51 The following table shows cost of sales by reportable segment for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020, and 2019: Cost of sales increased $162.8 million, or 8%, and was consistent as a percent of net sales when comparing 2021 with 2020. The increase in cost of sales was driven by a $551.5 million increase in our modules segment cost of sales primarily as a result of the following: • higher costs of $608.2 million from an increase in the volume of modules sold; • higher logistics costs of $86.0 million; • a reduction to our product warranty liability of $19.7 million in 2020 due to lower-than-expected settlements for our older series of module technology and revisions to projected settlements, resulting in a lower projected return rate; • a reduction to our module collection and recycling liability of $18.9 million in 2020 due to changes to the estimated timing of cash flows associated with capital, labor, and maintenance costs and updates to certain valuation assumptions; and • an increase to our module collection and recycling liability of $10.8 million in 2021 due to lower estimated by-product credits for certain semiconductor materials recovered during the recycling process and updates to certain valuation assumptions; partially offset by • continued module cost reductions, which decreased cost of sales by $160.8 million; • a reduction to our product warranty liability of $33.1 million in 2021 due to lower-than-expected claims for our older series of module technology as well as the evolving claims profile of our newest series of module technology, resulting in reductions to our projected module return rates; and • an impairment loss of $17.4 million in 2020 for certain module manufacturing equipment, including framing and assembly tools, which were no longer compatible with our long-term module technology roadmap. Such increase in our modules segment cost of sales was partially offset by a $388.8 million decrease in our residual business operations cost of sales primarily due to the lower volume and size of projects sold and under construction during the period. Gross profit Gross profit may be affected by numerous factors, including the selling prices of our modules and the selling prices of projects and services included in our residual business operations, our manufacturing costs, project development costs, the capacity utilization of our manufacturing facilities, and foreign exchange rates. Gross profit may also be affected by the mix of net sales from our modules business and residual business operations. The following table shows gross profit for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020, and 2019: 52 Gross profit decreased 0.1 percentage points to 25.0% in 2021 from 25.1% in 2020 primarily due to a decrease in the average selling price per watt of our modules, the volume of higher gross profit projects sold during the prior period, and an increase in logistics costs, partially offset by continued module cost reductions and the indemnification matter described above. Selling, general and administrative Selling, general and administrative expense consists primarily of salaries and other personnel-related costs, professional fees, insurance costs, and other business development and selling expenses. The following table shows selling, general and administrative expense for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020, and 2019: Selling, general and administrative expense in 2021 decreased compared to 2020 primarily due to a decrease in employee compensation expense driven by reductions in headcount from the sales of our North American O&M operations and U.S. project development business, higher impairment charges in the prior period for certain project assets, lower expected credit losses for our accounts receivable, and lower professional fees. Research and development Research and development expense consists primarily of salaries and other personnel-related costs; the cost of products, materials, and outside services used in our R&D activities; and depreciation and amortization expense associated with R&D specific facilities and equipment. We maintain a number of programs and activities to improve our technology and processes in order to enhance the performance and reduce the costs of our solar modules. The following table shows research and development expense for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020, and 2019: Research and development expense in 2021 increased compared to 2020 primarily as a result of increased material and module testing costs, partially offset by lower employee compensation expense resulting from reductions in R&D headcount that supported our residual business operations, lower share-based compensation expense driven by the forfeiture of unvested shares by our former Chief Technology Officer, who retired effective March 15, 2021, and lower impairment charges for certain equipment. Production start-up Production start-up expense consists of costs associated with operating a production line before it is qualified for commercial production, including the cost of raw materials for solar modules run through the production line during the qualification phase, employee compensation for individuals supporting production start-up activities, and applicable facility related costs. Production start-up expense also includes costs related to the selection of a new site and implementation costs for manufacturing process improvements to the extent we cannot capitalize these expenditures. 53 The following table shows production start-up expense for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020, and 2019: During 2021, we incurred production start-up expense primarily for the transition to Series 6 module manufacturing at our second facility in Kulim, Malaysia, which commenced commercial production in early 2021, and for certain manufacturing upgrades at our Malaysian facilities. During 2020, we incurred production start-up expense for the transition to Series 6 module manufacturing at our second facility in Kulim, Malaysia and the capacity expansion of our manufacturing facility in Perrysburg, Ohio. Litigation loss The following table shows litigation loss for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020, and 2019: In June 2020, we entered into an agreement in principle to settle certain claims filed in 2015 in the United States District Court for the District of Arizona (hereafter “Arizona District Court”) by putative stockholders that opted out of our previously settled class action lawsuit (the “Opt-Out Action”). In July 2020, the parties executed a definitive settlement agreement pursuant to which we agreed to pay a total of $19 million in exchange for mutual releases and a dismissal with prejudice of the Opt-Out Action. The agreement contains no admission of liability, wrongdoing, or responsibility by any of the defendants. In July 2020, First Solar funded the settlement and the parties filed a joint stipulation of dismissal. In September 2020, the Arizona District Court entered an order dismissing the case with prejudice. As of December 31, 2019, we had accrued $13 million of estimated losses for this action. As a result of the settlement, we accrued an incremental $6 million litigation loss during 2020. See Note 13. “Commitments and Contingencies – Legal Proceedings” to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on this matter. Gain on sales of businesses, net The following table shows gain on sales of businesses, net for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020, and 2019: In August 2020, we entered into an agreement with a subsidiary of Clairvest for the sale of our North American O&M operations. On March 31, 2021, we completed the transaction. Following certain customary post-closing adjustments, we received total consideration of $149.1 million. As a result of this transaction, we recorded a gain of $115.8 million, net of transaction costs and post-closing adjustments. In January 2021, we entered into an agreement with Leeward for the sale of our U.S. project development business. On March 31, 2021, we completed the transaction for an aggregate purchase price of $284.0 million. Such purchase price included $151.4 million for the sale of the U.S. project development business and $132.6 million for the sale of 392 MW DC of solar modules, which is presented in “Net sales” on our consolidated statements of operations. As a 54 result of this transaction, we recognized a gain of $31.5 million, net of transaction costs and post-closing adjustments. See Note 3. “Sales of Businesses” to our consolidated financial statements for further information related to these transactions. Foreign currency (loss) income, net Foreign currency (loss) income, net consists of the net effect of gains and losses resulting from holding assets and liabilities and conducting transactions denominated in currencies other than our subsidiaries’ functional currencies. The following table shows foreign currency (loss) income, net for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020, and 2019: Foreign currency loss increased in 2021 compared to 2020 primarily due to higher costs associated with hedging activities related to our subsidiaries in Japan and India and differences between our economic hedge positions and the underlying exposures. Interest income Interest income is earned on our cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, restricted cash, and restricted marketable securities. Interest income also includes interest earned from late customer payments. The following table shows interest income for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020, and 2019: Interest income during 2021 decreased compared to 2020 primarily due to lower interest rates on marketable securities and cash and cash equivalents and lower average balances associated with marketable securities. Interest expense, net Interest expense, net is primarily comprised of interest incurred on long-term debt, settlements of interest rate swap contracts, and changes in the fair value of interest rate swap contracts that do not qualify for hedge accounting in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 815. We may capitalize interest expense to our project assets or property, plant and equipment when such costs qualify for interest capitalization, which reduces the amount of net interest expense reported in any given period. The following table shows interest expense, net for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020, and 2019: 55 Interest expense, net in 2021 decreased compared to 2020 primarily due to unfavorable changes in the fair value of interest rate swap contracts in the prior period, which did not qualify for hedge accounting, lower interest expense associated with project debt, and lower amortization of debt discounts and issuance costs in the current period primarily driven by the repayment of the Ishikawa credit agreement in the prior period. Other income (expense), net Other income (expense), net is primarily comprised of miscellaneous items and realized gains and losses on the sale of marketable securities and restricted marketable securities. The following table shows other income (expense), net for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020, and 2019: Other income, net increased in 2021 compared to 2020 primarily due to expected credit losses associated with certain notes receivable in the prior period, partially offset by lower realized gains from sales of restricted marketable securities in the current period when compared to the prior period. Income tax (expense) benefit Income tax expense or benefit, deferred tax assets and liabilities, and liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits reflect our best estimate of current and future taxes to be paid. We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions in which we operate, principally Japan, Malaysia, and Vietnam. Significant judgments and estimates are required to determine our consolidated income tax expense. The statutory federal corporate income tax rate in the United States is 21%, and the tax rates in Japan, Malaysia, and Vietnam are 30.6%, 24%, and 20%, respectively. In Malaysia, we have been granted a long-term tax holiday, scheduled to expire in 2027, pursuant to which substantially all of our income earned in Malaysia is exempt from income tax, conditional upon our continued compliance with certain employment and investment thresholds. In Vietnam, we have been granted a tax incentive, scheduled to expire at the end of 2025, pursuant to which income earned in Vietnam is subject to reduced annual tax rates. The following table shows income tax (expense) benefit for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020, and 2019: Our tax rate is affected by recurring items, such as tax rates in foreign jurisdictions and the relative amounts of income we earn in those jurisdictions. The rate is also affected by discrete items that may occur in any given period, but are not consistent from period to period. Income tax expense increased by $210.8 million during 2021 compared to 2020 primarily due to a tax benefit in the prior year from the effect of tax law changes associated with the CARES Act, the prior year reversal of uncertain tax positions due to the expiration of the statute of limitations, higher pretax income in the current year, and the prior year release of the valuation allowance associated with our Vietnamese subsidiary due to its prior year operating income. 56 Liquidity and Capital Resources As of December 31, 2021, we believe that our cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, cash flows from operating activities, and contracts with customers for the future sale of solar modules will be sufficient to meet our working capital, capital expenditure, and project asset investment needs for at least the next 12 months. As necessary, we also believe we will have adequate access to the capital markets. We monitor our working capital to ensure we have adequate liquidity, both domestically and internationally. We intend to maintain appropriate debt levels based upon cash flow expectations, our overall cost of capital, and expected cash requirements for operations, such as construction activities and purchases of manufacturing equipment for our recently announced manufacturing facility in India and ongoing development activities for certain projects in Japan. However, our ability to raise capital on terms commercially acceptable to us could be constrained if there is insufficient lender or investor interest due to company-specific, industry-wide, or broader market concerns. Any incremental debt financings could result in increased debt service expenses and/or restrictive covenants, which could limit our ability to pursue our strategic plans. Additionally, given the duration of these and other capital investments and the currency risk relative to the U.S. dollar in certain international markets in which we operate, we continue to explore local financing alternatives. Should these financing alternatives be unavailable or too cost prohibitive, we could be exposed to significant currency risk and our liquidity could be adversely impacted. As of December 31, 2021, we had $1.8 billion in cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities compared to $1.7 billion as of December 31, 2020. The increase in cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities was primarily driven by cash receipts from module sales to customers; cash proceeds from the sale of our North American O&M operations and U.S. project development business; and cash proceeds from the sale and prior period construction of certain projects in the United States and Japan; partially offset by purchases of property, plant and equipment; and other operating expenditures. As of December 31, 2021 and 2020, $0.8 billion and $1.1 billion, respectively, of our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities was held by our foreign subsidiaries and was primarily based in U.S. dollar, Japanese yen, and Indian rupee denominated holdings. We utilize a variety of tax planning and financing strategies in an effort to ensure that our worldwide cash is available in the locations in which it is needed. If certain international funds were needed for our operations in the United States, we may be required to accrue and pay certain U.S. and foreign taxes to repatriate such funds. We maintain the intent and ability to permanently reinvest our accumulated earnings outside the United States, with the exception of our subsidiaries in Canada and Germany. In addition, changes to foreign government banking regulations may restrict our ability to move funds among various jurisdictions under certain circumstances, which could negatively impact our access to capital, resulting in an adverse effect on our liquidity and capital resources. We continually evaluate forecasted global demand and seek to balance our manufacturing capacity with such demand. We recently announced our plans to invest approximately $1.4 billion to expand our solar manufacturing capacity by 6.6 GW DC by constructing our third manufacturing facility in the U.S. and our first manufacturing facility in India. These new facilities are expected to commence operations in the first half of 2023 and the second half of 2023, respectively. In addition, we continue to increase the nameplate production capacity of our existing manufacturing facilities by improving our production throughput, increasing module wattage (or conversion efficiency), and improving manufacturing yield losses. During 2022, we expect to spend $0.9 billion to $1.1 billion for capital expenditures, including the new facilities mentioned above and upgrades to machinery and equipment that we believe will further increase our module wattage and expand capacity and throughput at our manufacturing facilities. 57 We also expect to commit significant working capital to purchase various raw materials used in our module manufacturing process. Our failure to obtain raw materials and components that meet our quality, quantity, and cost requirements in a timely manner could interrupt or impair our ability to manufacture our solar modules or increase our manufacturing costs. Accordingly, we may enter into long-term supply agreements to mitigate potential risks related to the procurement of key raw materials and components, and such agreements may be noncancelable or cancelable with a significant penalty. For example, we have entered into long-term supply agreements for the purchase of certain specified minimum volumes of substrate glass and cover glass for our PV solar modules. Our remaining purchases under these supply agreements are expected to be approximately $1.7 billion of substrate glass and approximately $369 million of cover glass. We have the right to terminate these agreements upon payment of specified termination penalties (which, in aggregate, are up to $322 million as of December 31, 2021 and decline over the remaining supply periods). We have also committed certain financial resources to fulfill our solar module collection and recycling obligations, and have established a trust under which these funds are put into custodial accounts with an established and reputable bank. As of December 31, 2021, such funds were comprised of restricted marketable securities of $244.7 million and restricted cash balances of $0.9 million. As of December 31, 2021, our module collection and recycling liability was $139.1 million. Trust funds may be disbursed for qualified module collection and recycling costs (including capital and facility related recycling costs), payments to customers for assuming collection and recycling obligations, and reimbursements of any overfunded amounts. Investments in the trust must meet certain investment quality criteria comparable to highly rated government or agency bonds. As necessary, we adjust the funded amounts for our estimated collection and recycling obligations on an annual basis based on the estimated costs of collecting and recycling covered modules, estimated rates of return on our restricted marketable securities, and an estimated solar module life of 25 years, less amounts already funded in prior years. Our residual business operations include certain project development activities and O&M services, which are primarily concentrated in Japan. Solar power project development cycles, which span the time between the identification of a site location and the commercial operation of a system, vary substantially and can take many years to mature. As a result of these long project cycles and strategic decisions to finance the development of certain projects using our working capital, we may need to make significant investments of resources in advance of the receipt of any cash from the sale of such projects. In late 2021, we received an offer to purchase our project development and O&M services businesses in Japan and determined it was in the best interest of our stockholders to pursue this transaction. As a result, we expect to complete the sale of these businesses in the first half of 2022. To the extent the sale is not completed in the near term, our residual business operations may continue to have significant liquidity requirements in the future for project development and construction costs, commitments under land lease arrangements associated with project sites, and commitments under certain project debt arrangements. The net amount of our project assets and related portions of long-term debt and deferred revenue, which approximates our net capital investment in the development and construction of solar power projects, was $241.2 million as of December 31, 2021. Additionally, from time to time we have elected to retain an ownership interest in certain PV solar power systems after they became operational. The decision to retain ownership of a system impacts our liquidity depending upon the size and cost of the project. The net amount of our PV solar power systems and related portions of long-term debt, which approximates our net capital investment in our operating power plants, was $33.5 million as of December 31, 2021. As of December 31, 2021, we had no off-balance sheet debt or similar obligations, other than financial assurance related instruments, which are not classified as debt. We do not guarantee any third-party debt. See Note 13. “Commitments and Contingencies” to our consolidated financial statements for further information about our financial assurance related instruments. 58 Cash Flows The following table summarizes key cash flow activity for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020, and 2019 (in thousands): Operating Activities The increase in net cash provided by operating activities during 2021 was primarily driven by the $350 million settlement payment in 2020 associated with our prior class action lawsuit and higher cash receipts from module sales, partially offset by lower cash proceeds from sales of project assets in the current year. Investing Activities The decrease in net cash used in investing activities during 2021 was primarily due to proceeds from the sale of our North American O&M operations and U.S. project development business, partially offset by lower net sales and maturities of marketable securities and restricted marketable securities and higher purchases of property, plant and equipment. Financing Activities The increase in net cash provided by financing activities during 2021 was primarily due to higher net borrowings under project specific debt financings associated with the construction of certain projects in Japan. Recent Accounting Pronouncements None. Critical Accounting Estimates In preparing our consolidated financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (“U.S. GAAP”), we make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts of reported assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses, as well as the disclosure of contingent liabilities. Some of our accounting policies require the application of significant judgment in the selection of the appropriate assumptions for making these estimates. By their nature, these judgments are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty. We base our judgments and estimates on our historical experience, our forecasts, and other available information as appropriate. The actual results experienced by us may differ materially and adversely from our estimates. To the extent there are material differences between our estimates and the actual results, our future results of operations will be affected. Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 2. “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to our consolidated financial statements. The accounting policies that require the most significant judgment and estimates include the following: Accrued Solar Module Collection and Recycling Liability. We previously established a module collection and recycling program, which has since been discontinued, to collect and recycle modules sold and covered under such program once the modules reach the end of their service lives. For legacy customer sales contracts that were covered under this program, we recognized expense at the time of sale for the estimated cost of our obligations to collect and 59 recycle such modules. We estimate the cost of our collection and recycling obligations based on the present value of the expected future cost of collecting and recycling the solar modules, which includes estimates for the cost of packaging materials; the cost of freight from the solar module installation sites to a recycling center; material, labor, and capital costs; and by-product credits for certain materials recovered during the recycling process. We base these estimates on our experience collecting and recycling solar modules and certain assumptions regarding the estimated useful lives of modules covered by the program and the number of modules expected to be recycled. In the periods between the time of sale and the related settlement of the collection and recycling obligation, we accrete the carrying amount of the associated liability and classify the corresponding expense within “Selling, general and administrative” expense on our consolidated statements of operations. We periodically review our estimates of expected future recycling costs and may adjust our liability accordingly. During the year ended December 31, 2021, we completed our annual cost study of obligations under our module collection and recycling program and increased the associated liability by $10.8 million primarily due to lower estimated by-product credits for certain semiconductor materials recovered during the recycling process and updates to certain valuation assumptions. As of December 31, 2021, a 10% increase in the expected future recycling costs would increase the liability by $13.9 million. Product Warranties. We provide a limited PV solar module warranty covering defects in materials and workmanship under normal use and service conditions for up to 12 years. We also typically warrant that modules installed in accordance with agreed-upon specifications will produce at least 98% of their labeled power output rating during the first year, with the warranty coverage reducing by a degradation factor every year thereafter throughout the limited power output warranty period of up to 30 years. Among other things, our solar module warranty also covers the resulting power output loss from cell cracking. As an alternative form of our standard limited module power output warranty, we have also offered an aggregated or system-level limited module performance warranty. This system-level limited module performance warranty is designed for utility-scale systems and provides 25-year system-level energy degradation protection. This warranty represents a practical expedient to address the challenge of identifying, from the potential millions of modules installed in a utility-scale system, individual modules that may be performing below warranty thresholds by focusing on the aggregate energy generated by the system rather than the power output of individual modules. The system-level limited module performance warranty is typically calculated as a percentage of a system’s expected energy production, adjusted for certain actual site conditions, with the warranted level of performance declining each year in a linear fashion, but never falling below 80% during the term of the warranty. In addition to our limited solar module warranties described above, for PV solar power systems we have constructed, we have provided limited warranties for defects in engineering design, installation, and BoS part workmanship for a period of one to two years following the substantial completion of a system or a block within the system. When we recognize revenue for sales of modules or projects, we accrue liabilities for the estimated future costs of meeting our limited warranty obligations. We make and revise these estimates based primarily on the number of solar modules under warranty installed at customer locations, our historical experience with and projections of warranty claims, and our estimated per-module replacement costs. We also monitor our expected future module performance through certain quality and reliability testing and actual performance in certain field installation sites. During the year ended December 31, 2021, we revised this estimate based on updated information regarding our warranty claims, which reduced our product warranty liability by $33.1 million. This updated information reflected lower-than-expected warranty claims for our older series of module technology as well as the evolving claims profile of our newest series of module technology, resulting in reductions to our projected module return rates. In general, we expect the return rates for our Series 6 modules to be lower than our older series, and we estimate that the return rate for such newer series of module technology will be less than 1%. As of December 31, 2021, a 1% increase in the return rate across all series of module technology would increase our product warranty liability by $119.6 million, and a 1% increase in the return rate for BoS parts would not have a material impact on the associated warranty liability. 60 Income Taxes. We are subject to the income tax laws of the United States, its states and municipalities, and those of the foreign jurisdictions in which we have significant business operations. Such tax laws are complex and subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and the relevant taxing authorities. We make judgments and interpretations regarding the application of these inherently complex tax laws when determining our provision for income taxes and also make estimates about when in the future certain items are expected to affect taxable income in the various tax jurisdictions. Disputes over interpretations of tax laws may be settled with the relevant taxing authority upon examination or audit. We regularly evaluate the likelihood of assessments in each of our taxing jurisdictions resulting from current and future examinations, and we record tax liabilities as appropriate. In preparing our consolidated financial statements, we calculate our income tax provision based on our interpretation of the tax laws and regulations in the various jurisdictions where we conduct business. This requires us to estimate our current tax obligations, evaluate our ability and intent to permanently reinvest our accumulated earnings in jurisdictions outside the United States, assess uncertain tax positions, and assess temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax basis of assets and liabilities. These temporary differences result in deferred tax assets and liabilities. We must also assess the likelihood that each of our deferred tax assets will be realized. To the extent we believe that realization of any of our deferred tax assets is not more likely than not, we establish a valuation allowance. When we establish a valuation allowance or increase this allowance in a reporting period, we generally record a corresponding tax expense. Conversely, to the extent circumstances indicate that a valuation allowance is no longer necessary, that portion of the valuation allowance is reversed, which generally reduces our overall income tax expense. We establish liabilities for potential additional taxes based on our assessment of the outcome of our tax positions. Once established, we adjust these liabilities when additional information becomes available or when an event occurs requiring an adjustment. Significant judgment is required in making these estimates and the actual cost of a tax assessment, fine, or penalty may ultimately be materially different from our recorded liabilities, if any. We continually explore initiatives to better align our tax and legal entity structure with the footprint of our global operations and recognize the tax impact of these initiatives, including changes in the assessment of uncertain tax positions, indefinite reinvestment exception assertions, and the realizability of deferred tax assets, in the period when we believe all necessary internal and external approvals associated with such initiatives have been obtained, or when the initiatives are materially complete. Asset Impairments. We assess long-lived assets classified as “held and used,” including our property, plant and equipment; PV solar power systems; project assets; operating lease assets; and intangible assets, for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances arise, including consideration of technological obsolescence, that may indicate that the carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable, and these assessments require significant judgment in determining whether such events or changes have occurred. These events or changes in circumstances may include a significant decrease in the market price of a long-lived asset; a significant adverse change in the extent or manner in which a long-lived asset is being used or in its physical condition; a significant adverse change in the business climate that could affect the value of a long-lived asset; an accumulation of costs significantly in excess of the amount originally expected for the acquisition or construction of a long-lived asset; a current-period operating or cash flow loss combined with a history of such losses or a projection of future losses associated with the use of a long-lived asset; or a current expectation that, more likely than not, a long-lived asset will be sold or otherwise disposed of significantly before the end of its previously estimated useful life. For purposes of recognition and measurement of an impairment loss, long-lived assets are grouped with other assets and liabilities at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities, and we must also exercise judgment in assessing such groupings and levels. When impairment indicators are present, we compare undiscounted future cash flows, including the eventual disposition of the asset group at market value, to the asset group’s carrying value to determine if the asset group is recoverable. If the carrying value of the asset group exceeds the undiscounted future cash flows, we measure any impairment by comparing the fair value of the asset group to its carrying value. Fair value is generally determined 61 by considering (i) internally developed discounted cash flows for the asset group, (ii) third-party valuations, and/or (iii) information available regarding the current market value for such assets. If the fair value of an asset group is determined to be less than its carrying value, an impairment in the amount of the difference is recorded in the period that the impairment indicator occurs. Estimating future cash flows requires significant judgment, and such projections may vary from the cash flows eventually realized.