********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

You should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with the information included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and other documents we file with the SEC. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we have identified as material, but are not the only risks and uncertainties facing us. Our business is also subject to general risks and uncertainties that affect many other companies, such as market conditions, economic conditions, geopolitical events, changes in laws, regulations, or accounting rules, fluctuations in interest rates, terrorism, wars or conflicts, major health concerns, natural disasters, or other disruptions of expected business conditions. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may impair our business, including our results of operations, liquidity, and financial condition. 11 Risk Related to Our Business Operations Conditions in the global economy, the markets we serve and the financial markets may adversely affect our business and financial statements. Our business is impacted by general economic conditions, and adverse economic conditions arising from any slower global economic growth, reduced demand or consumer confidence, energy, manufacturing or component supply constraints arising from the international conflicts, including Russian invasion of Ukraine and the Israel-Hamas war, high inflation rates and the corresponding interest rate policies, volatility in currency and credit markets, actual or anticipated default on sovereign debt, changes in global trade policies, unemployment and underemployment rates, reduced levels of capital expenditures, changes in government fiscal and monetary policies, government deficit reduction and budget negotiation dynamics, sequestration, other austerity measures, political and social instability, other geopolitical conflict, sanctions, natural disasters, terrorist attacks, and other challenges affect us and our distributors, customers, and suppliers, including having the effect of: • reducing demand for our products, software, and services, limiting the financing available to our customers and suppliers, increasing order cancellations, and resulting in longer sales cycles and slower adoption of new technologies; • increasing the difficulty in collecting accounts receivable and the risk of excess and obsolete inventories; • increasing price competition in our served markets; • supply interruptions, which could disrupt our ability to produce our products; • increasing the risk of impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets, and the risk that we may not be able to fully recover the value of other assets such as real estate and tax assets; • increasing the impact of currency translation; and • increasing the risk that counterparties to our contractual arrangements will become insolvent or otherwise unable to fulfill their contractual obligations which, in addition to increasing the risks identified above, could result in preference actions against us. In addition, adverse general economic conditions may lead to instability in U.S. and global capital and credit markets, including market disruptions, limited liquidity, and interest rate volatility. If we are unable to access capital and credit markets on terms that are acceptable to us or our lenders are unable to provide financing in accordance with their contractual obligations, we may not be able to make certain investments or acquisitions or fully execute our business plans and strategies. Furthermore, our suppliers and customers are also dependent upon the capital and credit markets. Limitations on the ability of customers, suppliers, or financial counterparties to access credit at interest rates and on terms that are acceptable to them could lead to insolvencies of key suppliers and customers, limit or prevent customers from obtaining credit to finance purchases of our products and services, and cause delays in the delivery of key products from suppliers. If growth in the global economy or in any of the markets we serve slows for a significant period, if there is significant deterioration in the global economy or such markets, if there is instability in global capital and credit markets, or if improvements in the global economy do not benefit the markets we serve, our business and financial statements would be adversely affected. If we cannot adjust our manufacturing capacity, supply chain management or the purchases required for our manufacturing activities to reflect changes in market conditions, customer demand and supply chain disruptions, our profitability may suffer. In addition, our reliance upon sole or limited sources of supply for certain materials, components, and services could cause production interruptions, delays, and inefficiencies. We purchase materials, components, and equipment from third parties for use in our manufacturing operations. Our income could be adversely impacted if we are unable to adjust our purchases and supply chain management to reflect any supply chain or transportation disruptions or changes in customer demand and market fluctuations, geopolitical disruptions, severe weather events, increases in demand outpacing supply capabilities, labor shortages, seasonality or cyclicality. During a market upturn or general supply chain disruptions, suppliers have extended lead times, limited supplies, or increased prices. If we cannot purchase sufficient products at competitive prices and quality and on a timely enough basis to meet demand for our products, we may not be able to satisfy market demand, product shipments may be delayed, our costs may increase, or we may breach our contractual commitments and incur liabilities. Conversely, in order to secure supplies for the production of products, we sometimes enter into noncancelable purchase commitments with vendors, which could impact our ability to adjust our inventory to reflect declining market demands. If demand for our products is less than we expect, we may experience additional excess and obsolete inventories and be forced to incur additional charges and our profitability may suffer. 12 In addition, some of our businesses purchase certain requirements from sole or limited source suppliers for reasons of quality assurance, cost effectiveness, availability, contractual obligations or uniqueness of design. If these or other suppliers encounter financial, operating, quality, or other difficulties or if our relationship with them changes, including as a result of contractual disputes, we might not be able to quickly establish or qualify replacement sources of supply. The supply chains for our businesses could also be disrupted by supplier capacity constraints, operational or quality issues, bankruptcy or exiting of the business for other reasons, decreased availability of key raw materials or commodities, and external events such as natural disasters, severe weather events that are occurring more frequently or with more intense effects as a result of global climate change, pandemic health issues, war, terrorist actions, governmental actions, and legislative or regulatory changes, among others. Any of these factors could result in production interruptions, delays, extended lead times, and inefficiencies. Because we cannot always immediately adapt our production capacity and related cost structures to changing market conditions, our manufacturing capacity may at times exceed or fall short of our production requirements. Any or all of these problems could result in the loss of customers, provide an opportunity for competing products to gain market acceptance, and otherwise adversely affect our profitability. Our financial results are subject to fluctuations in the cost and availability of commodities or components that we use in our operations. As discussed in the section entitled “Business-Materials,” our manufacturing and other operations employ a wide variety of components, raw materials, and other commodities. Prices for and availability of these components, raw materials, and other commodities have fluctuated significantly in the past. In particular, the widespread supply chain challenges due to labor, raw material, and component shortages, as well as widespread logistics issues, affected multiple industries, raised material and shipping costs, limited the quantities available, and extended the lead time required for supplies and deliveries. Any sustained interruption in the supply of these items, including as a result of general supply chain constraints, increasing demand outpacing supplies, or contractual disputes with suppliers or vendors, could adversely affect our business. In addition, due to the highly competitive nature of the industries that we serve, the cost-containment efforts of our customers, and the terms of certain contracts we are party to, if commodity or component prices rise we may be unable to pass along cost increases through higher prices. If we are unable to fully recover higher commodity or component costs through price increases or offset these increases through cost reductions, or if there is a time delay between the increase in costs and our ability to recover or offset these costs, we could experience lower margins and profitability and our financial statements could be adversely affected. Our growth could suffer if the markets into which we sell our products and services decline, do not grow as anticipated, or experience cyclicality. Our growth depends in part on the growth of the markets which we serve, and visibility into our markets is limited (particularly for markets into which we sell through distribution). Our quarterly sales and profits depend substantially on the volume and timing of orders received during the fiscal quarter, which are difficult to forecast. Any decline or lower than expected growth in our served markets could diminish demand for our products and services, which could adversely affect our financial statements.  Certain of our businesses operate in industries that may experience periodic, cyclical downturns. In addition, in certain of our businesses, demand depends on customers’ capital spending budgets, and product and economic cycles can affect the spending decisions of these entities. Demand for our products and services is also sensitive to changes in customer order patterns, which may be affected by announced price changes, changes in incentive programs, new product introductions, and customer inventory levels. Any of these factors could adversely affect our growth and results of operations in any given period. We face intense competition and if we are unable to compete effectively, we may experience decreased demand and decreased market share. Even if we compete effectively, we may be required to reduce prices for our products and services. Many of our businesses operate in industries that are intensely competitive and have been subject to consolidation. Because of the range of the products and services we sell and the variety of markets we serve, we encounter a wide variety of competitors; please see the section entitled “Business-Competition” for additional details. In order to compete effectively, we must retain longstanding relationships with major customers and continue to grow our business by establishing relationships with new customers, continually developing new or enhanced products and services to maintain and expand our brand recognition and leadership position in various product and service categories, and penetrating new markets, including high-growth markets. Our failure to compete effectively and/or pricing pressures resulting from competition may adversely impact our financial statements, and our expansion into new markets may result in greater-than-expected risks, liabilities and expenses. Our growth depends in part on the timely development and commercialization and customer acceptance of new and enhanced products and services based on technological innovation. We generally sell our products and services in industries that are characterized by rapid technological changes, frequent new product introductions and changing industry standards. If we do not develop innovative new and enhanced products and 13 services on a timely basis, our offerings will become obsolete over time and our competitive position and financial statements will suffer. Our success will depend on several factors, including our ability to: • accurately identify customer needs and preferences and predict future needs and preferences; • allocate our research and development funding to products and services with higher growth prospects; • anticipate and respond to our competitors’ development of new products and services and technological innovations; • differentiate our offerings from our competitors’ offerings and avoid commoditization; • innovate and develop new technologies and applications, and acquire or obtain rights to third-party technologies that may have valuable applications in our served markets; • obtain adequate intellectual property rights with respect to key technologies before our competitors do; • successfully commercialize new technologies in a timely manner, price them competitively, and cost-effectively manufacture and deliver sufficient volumes of new products of appropriate quality on time; and • stimulate customer demand for and convince customers to adopt new technologies. In addition, if we fail to accurately predict future customer needs and preferences or fail to produce viable technologies, we may invest heavily in research and development of products and services that do not lead to significant revenue, which would adversely affect our profitability. Even if we successfully innovate and develop new and enhanced products and services, we may incur substantial costs in doing so, and our profitability may suffer. If we are unable to recruit and retain key employees, our business may be harmed. Much of our future success and our ability to realize the benefit of our acquisitions and execute our portfolio strategy depends on our ability to attract and retain key employees, including our senior management. In particular, the markets for highly skilled employees and leaders in the technology and healthcare industries remain competitive. Our brand, our culture, our ability to provide competitive compensation, our locations of operations, and our reputation are important to our ability to recruit and retain key employees in these competitive markets. If we are not competitive or successful in our recruiting efforts, if we cannot attract or retain key employees, or if we do not adequately ensure effective succession planning or transfer of knowledge for our key employees, our ability to deliver and execute on our operational, development, or portfolio strategies would be adversely affected. Significant disruptions in, or breaches in security of, our information technology systems have adversely affected, and in the future could adversely affect, our business. We rely on information technology systems, some of which are managed by third parties and some of which are managed on a decentralized, independent basis by our operating companies, to process, transmit, and store electronic information (including sensitive data such as confidential business information and personally identifiable data relating to employees, customers, and other business partners), and to manage or support a variety of critical business processes and activities. These systems may be damaged, disrupted, accessed, or shut down due to attacks by computer hackers, nation states, cyber-criminals, computer viruses, error or malfeasance by employee or former employees, power outages, hardware failures, telecommunication or utility failures, catastrophes, or other similar events, and in any such circumstances our system redundancy and other disaster recovery planning may be ineffective or inadequate. In addition, security breaches of our systems or lack of sufficient control in our systems (or the systems of our customers, suppliers or other business partners) could result in the misappropriation, change, destruction, exfiltration or unauthorized disclosure of confidential information or personal data belonging to us or to our employees, partners, customers, or suppliers. Like many multinational corporations, our information technology systems have been subject to computer viruses, malicious codes, and other cyber-attacks that have resulted in disruption of our operations, unauthorized access to confidential information and increased the cost of operations through containment, investigation and remediation efforts, including cybersecurity incidents in the fourth quarter of 2023. Furthermore, we expect to be subject to similar incidents in the future as such attacks become more sophisticated and frequent, any of which may have a material adverse impact on our business continuity, operations or financial results. Increasing use of artificial intelligence may increase these risks. Any of the attacks, breaches, or other disruptions or damage described above, as well as corresponding remediation efforts, can disrupt our operations, delay production and shipments, result in theft of our and our customers’ intellectual property and trade secrets, damage customer and business partner relationships and our reputation, or result in defective products or services, legal claims and proceedings, liability and penalties under privacy laws, and increased costs for security and remediation, each of which could adversely affect our business and financial statements. 14 We may use artificial intelligence in our business and in our products, and challenges with properly managing its use could result in reputational harm, competitive harm, and legal liability, and adversely affect our results of operations. We may incorporate artificial intelligence (“AI”) solutions into our products, services and features, and we may leverage AI, including generative AI, in our product development, our operations, and our software programming. Our competitors or other third parties may incorporate AI into their products or operational processes more quickly or more successfully than us, which could impair our ability to compete effectively and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, there are significant risks involved in developing and deploying AI and there can be no assurance that the usage of AI will enhance our products or services or be beneficial to our business, including our efficiency or profitability. For example, our AI-related efforts, particularly those related to generative AI, subject us to risks related to accuracy, intellectual property infringement or misappropriation, data privacy, and cybersecurity, among others. It is also uncertain how various laws related to online services, intermediary liability, and other issues will apply to content generated by AI. AI also presents emerging ethical issues, and if our use of AI becomes controversial, we may experience brand or reputational harm, competitive harm, or legal liability. The rapid evolution of AI, including the regulation of AI by government or other regulatory agencies, will require significant resources to develop, test and maintain our platforms, offerings, services, and features to implement AI ethically and minimize any unintended harmful impacts. Defects and unanticipated use or inadequate disclosure with respect to our products (including software) or services could adversely affect our business, reputation, and financial statements. Manufacturing or design defects impacting safety, cybersecurity, or quality issues (or the perception of such issues) for our products and services can lead to personal injury, death, property damage, data loss, or other damages. These events could lead to recalls or safety or other public alerts, result in product or service downtime or the temporary or permanent removal of a product or service from the market and result in product liability or similar claims being brought against us. Recalls, downtime, removals, and product liability and similar claims (regardless of their validity or ultimate outcome) can result in significant costs, as well as negative publicity and damage to our reputation that could reduce demand for our products and services. Adverse changes in our relationships with, or the financial condition, performance, purchasing patterns, or inventory levels of, key distributors and other channel partners could adversely affect our financial statements. Certain of our businesses sell a significant amount of their products to key distributors and other channel partners that have valuable relationships with customers and end-users. Some of these distributors and other partners also sell our competitors’ products or compete with us directly, and if they favor competing products for any reason they may fail to market our products effectively. Adverse changes in our relationships with these distributors and other partners, or adverse developments in their financial condition, performance, or purchasing patterns, could adversely affect our financial statements. The levels of inventory maintained by our distributors and other channel partners, and changes in those levels, can also significantly impact our results of operations in any given period. In addition, the consolidation of distributors and customers in certain of the industries in which we operate could adversely impact our profitability. Our restructuring activities could have long-term adverse effects on our business. We have implemented, and may continue to implement significant restructuring activities across our businesses to adjust our cost structure. These significant restructuring activities as well as our regular ongoing cost reduction activities (including in connection with the integration of acquired businesses) reduce our available talent, assets, and other resources and could slow improvements in our products and services, adversely affect our ability to respond to customers and limit our ability to increase production quickly if demand for our products increases. In addition, delays in implementing planned restructuring activities or other productivity improvements, unexpected costs, or failure to meet targeted improvements may diminish the operational or financial benefits we realize from such actions. Any of the circumstances described above could adversely impact our business and financial statements. Work stoppages, works council campaigns, and other labor disputes could adversely impact our productivity and results of operations. We have various non-U.S. collective labor arrangements. We are subject to potential work stoppages, works council campaigns, and other labor disputes, any of which could adversely impact our productivity, results of operations, and reputation. If we suffer loss to our facilities, supply chains, distribution systems, or information technology systems due to catastrophe or other events, our operations could be seriously harmed. Our facilities, supply chains, distribution systems, and information technology systems are subject to catastrophic loss due to fire, flood, earthquake, hurricane, public health crisis, war, terrorism, or other natural or man-made disasters, including those 15 caused by climate change and other climate-related causes. If any of these facilities, supply chains, or systems were to experience a catastrophic loss, it could disrupt our operations, delay production and shipments, result in defective products or services, damage customer relationships and our reputation, and result in legal exposure and large repair or replacement expenses. The third-party insurance coverage that we maintain will vary from time to time in both type and amount depending on cost, availability, and our decisions regarding risk retention, and may be unavailable or insufficient to protect us against losses. If we do not or cannot adequately protect our intellectual property, or if third parties infringe our intellectual property rights, we may suffer competitive injury or expend significant resources enforcing our rights. We own numerous patents, trademarks, copyrights, trade secrets, and other intellectual property and licenses to intellectual property owned by others, which in aggregate are important to our business. The intellectual property rights that we obtain, however, may not be sufficiently broad or otherwise may not provide us a significant competitive advantage, and patents may not be issued for pending or future patent applications owned by or licensed to us. In addition, the steps that we and our licensors have taken to maintain and protect our intellectual property may not prevent it from being challenged, invalidated, circumvented, designed-around, or becoming subject to compulsory licensing, particularly in countries where intellectual property rights are not highly developed or protected. In some circumstances, enforcement may not be available to us because an infringer has a dominant intellectual property position or for other business reasons, or countries may require compulsory licensing of our intellectual property. We also rely on nondisclosure and noncompetition agreements with employees, consultants, and other parties to protect, in part, trade secrets and other proprietary rights. There can be no assurance that these agreements will adequately protect our trade secrets and other proprietary rights and will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any breach, that others will not independently develop substantially equivalent proprietary information, or that third parties will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets or other proprietary rights. Our failure to obtain or maintain intellectual property rights that convey competitive advantage, adequately protect our intellectual property or detect or prevent circumvention or unauthorized use of such property, and the cost of enforcing our intellectual property rights could adversely impact our competitive position and financial statements. Third parties may claim that we are infringing or misappropriating their intellectual property rights and we could suffer significant litigation expenses, losses, or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling products or services. From time to time, we receive notices from third parties alleging intellectual property infringement or misappropriation. Any dispute or litigation regarding intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming due to the complexity of many of our technologies and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation. Our intellectual property portfolio may not be useful in asserting a counterclaim, or negotiating a license, in response to a claim of infringement or misappropriation. In addition, as a result of such claims of infringement or misappropriation, we could lose our rights to critical technology, be unable to license critical technology or sell critical products and services, be required to pay substantial damages or license fees with respect to the infringed rights, or be required to redesign our products at substantial cost, any of which could adversely impact our competitive position and financial statements. Even if we successfully defend against claims of infringement or misappropriation, we may incur significant costs and diversion of management attention and resources, which could adversely affect our financial statements. We are subject to a variety of litigation and other legal and regulatory proceedings in the course of our business that could adversely affect our financial statements. We are subject to a variety of litigation and other legal and regulatory proceedings incidental to our business (or the business operations of previously owned entities), including claims for damages arising out of the use of products or services and claims relating to intellectual property matters, employment matters, tax matters, commercial disputes, disputes with our supplier or vendors, competition and sales and trading practices, environmental matters, personal injury, insurance coverage, and acquisition or divestiture-related matters, as well as regulatory investigations or enforcement. We may also become subject to lawsuits as a result of past or future acquisitions or as a result of liabilities retained from, or representations, warranties, or indemnities provided in connection with, divested businesses. These lawsuits may include claims for compensatory damages, punitive and consequential damages, and/or injunctive relief. The defense of these lawsuits may divert our management’s attention, we may incur significant expenses in defending these lawsuits, we may experience disruption in supply or sales, and we may be required to pay damage awards or settlements or become subject to equitable remedies that could adversely affect our operations and financial statements. Moreover, any insurance or indemnification rights that we may have may be insufficient or unavailable to protect us against such losses. In addition, developments in proceedings in any given period may require us to adjust the loss contingency estimates that we have recorded in our financial statements, record estimates for liabilities or assets that we were previously unable to estimate, or pay cash settlements or judgments. Any of these developments could adversely affect our financial statements in any particular period. We cannot assure you that our liabilities 16 in connection with litigation and other legal and regulatory proceedings will not exceed our estimates or adversely affect our financial statements and reputation. Risk Related to our International Operations International economic, political, legal, compliance, and business factors could negatively affect our financial statements. In 2023, approximately 46% of our sales were derived from customers outside the United States. Our principal markets outside the United States are in Europe and Asia. In addition, many of our manufacturing operations, suppliers, and employees are located outside the United States. Since our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to further penetrate markets outside the United States and increase the localization of our products and services, we expect to continue to increase our sales and presence outside the United States, particularly in high-growth markets, such as Eastern Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Latin America, and Asia. Our international business, including our business in high-growth markets outside the United States, is subject to risks that are customarily encountered in non-U.S. operations, as well as increased risks due to significant uncertainties related to political and economic changes, including: • interruption in the transportation of materials to us and finished goods to our customers; • impact of geopolitical conflict, including the Russian invasion of Ukraine and the Israel-Hamas war; • differences in terms of sale, including payment terms; • local product preferences and product requirements; • changes in a country’s or region’s political or economic conditions, including changes in relationship with the United States, particularly with respect to China; • trade protection measures, sanctions, increased trade barriers, imposition of significant tariffs on imports or exports, embargoes, and import or export restrictions and requirements; • new conditions to, and possible restrictions of, existing free trade agreements; • epidemics, such as the coronavirus outbreak, that adversely impact travel, production, or demand; • unexpected changes in laws or regulatory requirements, including negative changes in tax laws in the U.S. and in the countries in which we manufacture or sell our products; • limitations on ownership and on repatriation of earnings and cash; • the potential for nationalization of enterprises; • limitations on legal rights and our ability to enforce such rights; • difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations; • differing labor regulations; • difficulties in implementing restructuring actions on a timely or comprehensive basis; and • differing protection of intellectual property. Any of these risks could negatively affect our financial statements and growth. Trade relations between China and the United States could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial statements. We have experienced growth in various end markets in China. During 2023, sales in China accounted for approximately 11% of our total sales for the year. In addition, we have numerous facilities in China, many of which serve multiple Fortive operating companies in manufacturing, distribution, product design, and selling, general and administrative functions. There continues to be significant uncertainty about the future relationship between the United States and China, including with respect to trade policies, treaties, government regulations, and tariffs. In particular, there continues to be uncertainty about U.S. foreign trade policy with respect to China, including any changes to the trade policies that may be adopted by the Biden administration. Any increased trade barriers or restrictions on global trade, especially trade with China, could adversely impact our business and financial statements. Foreign currency exchange rates may adversely affect our financial statements. Sales and purchases in currencies other than the U.S. dollar expose us to fluctuations in foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar and may adversely affect our financial statements. Overall strengthening of the U.S. dollar during most of fiscal year 2023 has increased the effective price of our products sold in U.S. dollars into other countries, which may require us to lower our prices or adversely affect sales to the extent we do not increase local currency prices. Decreased strength of the U.S. dollar could adversely affect the cost of materials, products and services we purchase overseas. Sales and expenses of our non-U.S. 17 businesses are also translated into U.S. dollars for reporting purposes and the strengthening or weakening of the U.S. dollar could result in unfavorable translation effects. In addition, certain of our businesses transact in a currency other than the business’ functional currency, and movements in the transaction currency relative to the functional currency could also result in unfavorable exchange rate effects. We also face exchange rate risk from our investments in subsidiaries owned and operated in foreign countries and borrowings denominated in foreign currencies. Risk Related to Our Acquisitions, Investments, and Dispositions Any inability to consummate acquisitions at our anticipated rate and at appropriate prices could negatively impact our growth rate and stock price. Our ability to grow revenues, earnings, and cash flow at or above our anticipated rates depends in part upon our ability to identify and successfully acquire and integrate businesses at appropriate prices and realize anticipated synergies. We may not be able to consummate acquisitions at rates anticipated, which could adversely impact our growth rate and our stock price. Acquisitions that align with our portfolio strategy may be difficult to identify and execute for a number of reasons, including high valuations, competition among prospective buyers, the availability of affordable funding in the capital markets and the need to satisfy applicable closing conditions and obtain antitrust and other regulatory approvals on acceptable terms. In addition, competition for acquisitions may result in higher purchase prices. Changes in accounting or regulatory requirements or instability in the credit markets could also adversely impact our ability to consummate acquisitions. Our acquisition of businesses, joint ventures, and strategic relationships could negatively impact our financial statements. As part of our business strategy we acquire businesses and enter other strategic relationships in the ordinary course, some of which may be material; please see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” (“MD&A”) for additional details. These acquisitions and strategic relationships involve a number of financial, accounting, managerial, operational, legal, compliance, and other risks and challenges, including the following, any of which could adversely affect our financial statements: • any acquired business, technology, service, or product could under-perform relative to our expectations and the price that we paid for it, or not perform in accordance with our anticipated timetable; • we may incur or assume significant debt in connection with our acquisitions or strategic relationships; • acquisitions or strategic relationships could cause our financial results to differ from our own or the investment community’s expectations in any given period, or over the long-term; • pre-closing and post-closing earnings charges could adversely impact operating results in any given period, and the impact may be substantially different from period to period; • acquisitions or strategic relationships could create demands on our management, operational resources, and financial and internal control systems that we are unable to effectively address; • we could experience difficulty in integrating personnel, operations, and financial and other controls and systems and retaining key employees and customers; • we may be unable to achieve cost savings or other synergies anticipated in connection with an acquisition or strategic relationship; • we may assume by acquisition or strategic relationship unknown liabilities, known contingent liabilities that become realized, known liabilities that prove greater than anticipated, internal control deficiencies, or exposure to regulatory sanctions resulting from the acquired company’s activities and the realization of any of these liabilities or deficiencies may increase our expenses, adversely affect our financial position, or cause us to fail to meet our public financial reporting obligations; • in connection with acquisitions, we may enter into post-closing financial arrangements such as purchase price adjustments, earn-out obligations, and indemnification obligations, which may have unpredictable financial results; • in connection with acquisitions, we have recorded significant goodwill and other intangible assets on our balance sheet and if we are not able to realize the value of these assets, we may be required to incur charges relating to the impairment of these assets; and • we may have interests that diverge from those of strategic partners and we may not be able to direct the management and operations of the strategic relationship in the manner we believe is most appropriate, exposing us to additional risk. 18 The indemnification provisions of acquisition agreements by which we have acquired companies may not fully protect us and as a result we may face unexpected liabilities. Certain of the acquisition agreements by which we have acquired companies require the former owners to indemnify us against certain liabilities related to the operation of the company before we acquired it. In most of these agreements, however, the liability of the former owners is limited and certain former owners may be unable to meet their indemnification responsibilities. We cannot assure you that these indemnification provisions will protect us fully or at all, and as a result we may face unexpected liabilities that adversely affect our financial statements. Divestitures or other dispositions could negatively impact our business, and contingent liabilities from businesses that we have sold could adversely affect our financial statements. We continually assess the strategic fit of our existing businesses and may divest or otherwise dispose of businesses that are deemed not to fit with our strategic plan or are not achieving the desired return on investment. For example, in 2018, we split-off most of our automation and specialty platform in a Reverse Morris Trust transaction with Altra Industrial Motion Corp. and, in 2020, we spun-off our former Industrial Technologies segment. These transactions pose risks and challenges that could negatively impact our business. For example, when we decide to sell or otherwise dispose of a business or assets, we may be unable to do so on satisfactory terms within our anticipated timeframe or at all, and even after reaching a definitive agreement to sell or dispose a business the sale is typically subject to satisfaction of pre-closing conditions which may not become satisfied. In addition, divestitures or other dispositions may dilute our earnings per share, have other adverse financial and accounting impacts and distract management, and disputes may arise with buyers. In addition, we have retained responsibility for and/or have agreed to indemnify buyers against some known and unknown contingent liabilities related to a number of businesses we have sold or disposed. The resolution of these contingencies has not had a material effect on our financial statements but we cannot be certain that this favorable pattern will continue. Potential indemnification liabilities to Vontier pursuant to the separation agreement could materially and adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We entered into a separation and distribution agreement and related agreements with Vontier to govern the separation and distribution of Vontier and the relationship between the two companies going forward. These agreements provide for specific indemnity and liability obligations of each party and could lead to disputes between us. If we are required to indemnify Vontier under the circumstances set forth in these agreements, we may be subject to substantial liabilities. In addition, with respect to the liabilities for which Vontier has agreed to indemnify us under these agreements, there can be no assurance that the indemnity rights we have against Vontier will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of the liabilities, or that Vontier will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. Each of these risks could negatively affect our businesses, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Risk Related to Regulatory and Compliance Matters Changes in industry standards and governmental regulations may reduce demand for our products or services or increase our expenses. We compete in markets in which we and our customers must comply with supranational, federal, state, local, and other jurisdictional regulations, such as regulations governing health and safety, the environment, and electronic communications, and market standardizations. We develop, configure, and market our products and services to meet customer needs created by these regulations and standards. These regulations and standards are complex, change frequently, have tended to become more stringent over time, and may be inconsistent across jurisdictions. Any significant change or delay in implementation in any of these regulations or standards (or in the interpretation, application, or enforcement thereof) could reduce or delay demand for our products and services, increase our costs of producing or delay the introduction of new or modified products and services, or could restrict our existing activities, products, and services. In addition, in certain of our markets our growth depends in part upon the introduction of new regulations or implementation of industry standards on the timeline we expect. In these markets, the delay or failure of governmental and other entities to adopt or enforce new regulations or industry standards, or the adoption of new regulations or industry standards which our products and services are not positioned to address, could adversely affect demand. In addition, regulatory deadlines or industry standard implementation timelines may result in substantially different levels of demand for our products and services from period to period. Our reputation, ability to do business, and financial statements may be impaired by improper conduct by any of our employees, agents, or business partners. We cannot provide assurance that our internal controls and compliance systems will always protect us from acts committed by employees, agents, or business partners of ours (or of businesses we acquire or partner with) that would violate U.S. and/or non-U.S. laws, including the laws governing payments to government officials, bribery, fraud, kickbacks, and false claims, sales and 19 marketing practices, conflicts of interest, competition, export and import compliance, money laundering, and data privacy. In particular, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business, and we operate in many parts of the world that have experienced governmental corruption to some degree. Any such improper actions or allegations of such acts could damage our reputation and subject us to civil or criminal investigations in the United States and in other jurisdictions and related shareholder lawsuits, could lead to substantial civil and criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties and could cause us to incur significant legal and investigatory fees. In addition, though we rely on our suppliers to adhere to our supplier standards of conduct, material violations of such standards of conduct could occur that could have a material effect on our financial statements. Our operations, products, and services expose us to the risk of environmental, health, and safety liabilities, costs, and violations that could adversely affect our reputation and financial statements. Our operations, products and services are subject to environmental laws and regulations, which impose limitations on the discharge of pollutants into the environment and establish standards for the use, generation, treatment, storage, and disposal of hazardous and non-hazardous wastes. We must also comply with various health and safety regulations in the United States and abroad in connection with our operations. In addition, some of our operations require the controlled use of hazardous or energetic materials in the development, manufacturing, or servicing of our products. We cannot assure you that our environmental, health, and safety compliance program has been or will at all times be effective. Failure to comply with any of these laws could result in civil and criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties and damage to our reputation. In addition, we cannot provide assurance that our costs of complying with current or future environmental protection and health and safety laws will not exceed our estimates or adversely affect our financial statements. Moreover, any accident that results in significant personal injury or property damage, whether occurring during development, manufacturing, servicing, use, or storage of our products, may result in significant production interruption, delays, or claims for substantial damages caused by personal injuries or property damage, harm to our reputation, and reduction in morale among our employees, any of which may adversely and materially affect our results of operations. In addition, we may incur costs related to remedial efforts or alleged environmental damage associated with past or current waste disposal practices or other hazardous materials handling practices. We are also from time to time party to personal injury or other claims brought by private parties alleging injury due to the presence of or exposure to hazardous substances. We may also become subject to additional remedial, compliance or personal injury costs due to future events such as changes in existing laws or regulations, changes in agency direction or enforcement policies, developments in remediation technologies, changes in the conduct of our operations and changes in accounting rules. For additional information regarding these risks, please refer to Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements. We cannot assure you that our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances will not exceed our estimates or adversely affect our reputation and financial statements or that we will not be subject to additional claims for personal injury or remediation in the future based on our past, present or future business activities. Our businesses are subject to extensive regulation; failure to comply with those regulations could adversely affect our financial statements and reputation. In addition to the environmental, health, safety, anti-corruption, and other regulations noted above, our businesses are subject to extensive regulation by U.S. and non-U.S. governmental and self-regulatory entities at the supranational, federal, state, local, and other jurisdictional levels, including the following: • we are required to comply with various import laws and export control and economic sanctions laws, which may affect our transactions with certain customers, business partners, and other persons and dealings between our employees and subsidiaries. In certain circumstances, export control and economic sanctions regulations may prohibit the export of certain products, services, and technologies. In other circumstances, we may be required to obtain an export license before exporting the controlled item. Compliance with the various import laws that apply to our businesses can restrict our access to, and increase the cost of obtaining, certain products and at times can interrupt our supply of imported inventory; • we also have agreements to sell products and services to government entities and are subject to various statutes and regulations that apply to companies doing business with government entities. The laws governing government contracts differ from the laws governing private contracts. For example, many government contracts contain pricing and other terms and conditions that are not applicable to private contracts. Our agreements with government entities may be subject to termination, reduction, or modification at the convenience of the government or in the event of changes in government requirements, reductions in federal spending and other factors, and we may underestimate our costs of performing under the contract. Government contracts that have been awarded to us following a bid process 20 could become the subject of a bid protest by a losing bidder, which could result in loss of the contract. We are also subject to investigation and audit for compliance with the requirements governing government contracts; • we are also required to comply with increasingly complex and changing data privacy regulations in multiple jurisdictions that regulate the collection, use, protection, and transfer of personal data, including the transfer of personal data between or among countries. In particular, the General Data Protection Regulation became effective in the European Union in May 2018 and the California Consumer Privacy Act became effective in January 2020. We may also face audits or investigations by one or more domestic or foreign government agencies relating to our compliance with these regulations. An adverse outcome under any such investigation or audit could subject us to fines or other penalties. That or other circumstances related to our collection, use, and transfer of personal data could cause a loss of reputation in the market and/or adversely affect our business and financial position; • certain of our products are medical devices that are subject to regulation by the U.S. FDA, by other federal and state governmental agencies, by comparable agencies of other countries and regions, and by certain accrediting bodies. To varying degrees, these regulators require us to comply with laws and regulations governing the development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, marketing, distribution, and post-marketing surveillance of our products. Government authorities may conclude that our business practices do not comply with current or future statutes, regulations, agency guidance or case law. Failure to obtain required regulatory clearances or approvals before marketing our products (or before implementing modifications to or promoting additional indications or uses of our products), other violations of laws or regulations, failure to remediate inspectional observations to the satisfaction of these regulatory authorities, and real or perceived efficacy or safety concerns or trends of adverse events with respect to our products (even after obtaining clearance for distribution) can lead to warning letters, notices to customers, declining sales, loss of customers, loss of market share, remediation and increased compliance costs, recalls, seizures, fines, expenses, injunctions, civil penalties, criminal penalties, consent decrees, administrative detentions, refusals to permit importations, partial or total shutdown of production facilities or the implementation of operating restrictions, narrowing of permitted uses for a product, refusal of the government to grant clearance, and suspension or withdrawal of approvals. Further, defending against any such actions can be costly and time-consuming and may require significant personnel resources. Therefore, even if we are successful in defending against any such actions brought against us, our business may be impaired; • we are also subject to the federal False Claims Act (the “FCA”), which imposes civil and criminal liability on individuals or entities that knowingly submit false or fraudulent claims for payment to the government or knowingly make, or cause to be made, a false statement in order to have a false claim paid, including qui tam or whistleblower suits. There are many potential bases for liability under the FCA. In addition, we could be held liable under the FCA if we are deemed to “cause” the submission of false or fraudulent claims; and • we are also required to comply with ever changing labor and employment laws and regulations in multiple jurisdictions. These changes could negatively impact our business or financial position. For example, we recently discovered that Gems Sensors, Inc., an entity that has been merged into Setra Systems, Inc. and now operates as Gems Setra, made certain incorrect representations regarding its status as a small business concern as defined by the Small Business Act for certain contracts that it was awarded by the Defense Logistics Agency ("DLA"). As a result, on January 26, 2024, we voluntarily notified the Department of Defense Office of Inspector General (“OIG”) and the DLA of this matter.  While we are continuing to investigate, we currently do not expect this matter to have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. However, resolution of this matter could subject us to fines or penalties, and we cannot assure you of the timing or outcome of such resolution. These are not the only regulations that our businesses must comply with. The regulations we are subject to have tended to become more stringent over time and may be inconsistent across jurisdictions. We, our representatives, and the industries in which we operate may at times be under review and/or investigation by regulatory authorities. Failure to comply (or any alleged or perceived failure to comply) with the regulations referenced above or any other regulations could result in civil and criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties, and any such failure or alleged failure (or becoming subject to a regulatory enforcement investigation) could also damage our reputation, disrupt our business, limit our ability to manufacture, import, export, and sell products and services, result in loss of customers and disbarment from selling to certain federal agencies and cause us to incur significant legal and investigatory fees. Compliance with these and other regulations may also affect our returns on investment, require us to incur significant expenses, or modify our business model or impair our flexibility in modifying product, marketing, pricing, or other strategies for growing our business. Our products and operations are also often subject to the rules of industrial standards bodies such as the International Standards Organization, and failure to comply with these rules could result in withdrawal of certifications needed to sell our products and services and otherwise adversely impact our financial statements. For additional information regarding these risks, please refer to the section entitled “Business-Regulatory Matters.” 21 Climate change, or legal or regulatory measures to address climate change, may negatively affect us. Climate change resulting from increased concentrations of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere could present risks to our operations. Physical risk resulting from acute changes (such as hurricane, tornado, wildfire or flooding) or chronic changes (such as droughts, heat waves or sea level changes) in climate patterns can adversely impact our facilities and operations and disrupt our supply chains and distribution systems. Concern over climate change can also result in new or additional legal or regulatory requirements designed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and/or mitigate the effects of climate change on the environment (such as taxation of, or caps on the use of, carbon-based energy). Any such new or additional legal or regulatory requirements, including extensive disclosure requirements in various jurisdictions, including in the E.U. and domestically, may increase the costs associated with, or disrupt, sourcing, manufacturing and distribution of our products, which may adversely affect our business and financial statements. In addition, any failure to adequately address stakeholder expectations with respect to environmental, social and governance matters may result in the loss of business, adverse reputational impacts, diluted market valuations and challenges in attracting and retaining customers and talented employees. Risk Related to Our Tax and Accounting Matters Changes in our effective tax rates or exposure to additional income tax liabilities or assessments could affect our profitability. In addition, audits by tax authorities could result in additional tax payments for prior periods. We are subject to income and transaction taxes in the United States and in multiple foreign jurisdictions. As such, changes to applicable tax laws or policies, including interpretations or retroactive applications thereof, could result in a material change in our tax provision, cash taxes paid, and effective tax rate. Furthermore, certain tax laws are inherently ambiguous requiring subjective interpretation on the application thereof. Our interpretation and the corresponding amount of income taxes we pay is, and may in the future continue to be, subject to audits by U.S. federal, state, and local tax authorities and by non-U.S. tax authorities. If these audits result in payments or assessments different from our reserves, our future results may include unfavorable adjustments to our tax liabilities and our financial statements could be adversely affected. Foreign remittance taxes have not been provided for on undistributed earnings of certain of our non-U.S. subsidiaries to the extent such earnings are considered to be indefinitely reinvested in the operations of those subsidiaries. If our intentions regarding reinvestment of such earnings change, or we determine to repatriate earnings from foreign jurisdictions that had previously been considered permanently reinvested under existing accounting standards, then our income tax provision, cash taxes paid, and effective tax rate could increase. In addition, changes by the U.S. in relation to international tax reform could increase uncertainty and may adversely affect our income tax provision, cash taxes paid, and effective tax rate. Comprehensive tax reform was enacted through the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the “TCJA”) which includes numerous provisions that impact U.S. corporate tax rates, business-related exclusions, deductions, and credits. The taxing authorities continue to issue regulations and guidance, some with retrospective application, to the provisions of the TCJA, and we expect this to continue for the foreseeable future. Any future adjustments resulting from retrospective regulations and guidance issued will be considered a discrete income tax expense or benefit in the period guidance is issued. For example, the TCJA eliminated the deduction of certain domestic and foreign research and development expenditures beginning on January 1, 2022 and requires capitalization and amortization of such expenditures over a specified period; any revision, regulation, or new guidance to this rule may impact our future income tax provision, cash taxes paid, and effective tax rate. Furthermore, changes in multilateral agreements and the tax laws of foreign jurisdictions could arise as a result of the base erosion and profit shifting project undertaken by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (the “OECD”) and could significantly increase our tax provision, cash taxes paid, and effective tax rate. The OECD has issued significant global tax policy changes that include both expanded reporting as well as technical global tax policy changes and many countries in which we operate have implemented tax law and administrative changes to align with new OECD policies. For example, in October 2021, OECD announced an agreed framework for an expansion of the taxing rights of market countries and to establish a global minimum corporate tax rate. In December 2021, OECD published detailed model rules for a global minimum corporate tax rate of fifteen percent which will require multilateral agreement(s) and/or country-specific legislative action to be effective. A global minimum corporate tax rate and any other implemented changes could significantly increase tax uncertainty due to differing interpretations and increased audit scrutiny. We could incur significant liability if any of our separation from Danaher, our separation of our Automation and Specialty business or our separation of Vontier (collectively, the “Separation Transactions”) is determined to be a taxable transaction. We have received an opinion from outside tax counsel to the effect that each of the Separation Transactions qualifies as a transaction that is described in Sections 355(a) and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code. The opinion relies on certain facts, assumptions, representations, and undertakings from the applicable parties regarding the past and future conduct of the 22 companies’ respective businesses and other matters. If any of these facts, assumptions, representations, or undertakings are incorrect or not satisfied, our stockholders and we may not be able to rely on the applicable opinion of tax counsel and could be subject to significant tax liabilities. Notwithstanding the opinion of tax counsel we have received, the IRS could determine on audit that any of the Separation Transactions is taxable if it determines that any of the corresponding facts, assumptions, representations, or undertakings are not correct or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in any of the applicable opinions. If any of the Separation Transactions is determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we, as well as our stockholders that are subject to U.S. federal income tax, would incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities. Changes in U.S. GAAP could adversely affect our reported financial results and may require significant changes to our internal accounting systems and processes. We prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (“GAAP”). These principles are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”), the SEC, and various bodies formed to interpret and create appropriate accounting principles and guidance. Any new or amended standards may result in different accounting principles, which may significantly impact our reported results or could result in volatility of our financial results. We may be required to recognize impairment charges for our goodwill and other intangible assets. As of December 31, 2023, the net carrying value of our goodwill and other intangible assets totaled approximately $12.3 billion. In accordance with GAAP, we periodically assess these assets to determine if they are impaired. Significant negative industry or economic trends, disruptions to our business, inability to effectively integrate acquired businesses, unexpected significant changes or planned changes in use of our assets, changes in the structure of our business, divestitures, market capitalization declines, or increases in associated discount rates may impair our goodwill and other intangible assets. Any charges relating to such impairments would adversely affect our results of operations in the periods recognized. Refer to Note 2 and Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements for a description of our policies relating to goodwill and acquired intangibles. Risk Related to Our Financing Activities We have incurred a significant amount of debt, and our debt will increase further if we incur additional debt and do not retire existing debt. As of December 31, 2023, we had approximately $3.7 billion of long-term debt, including the current portion of long-term debt, on a consolidated basis. We may also obtain additional long-term debt and lines of credit to meet future financing needs.  Our debt level and related debt service obligations could have negative consequences, including: • requiring us to dedicate significant cash flow from operations to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, which would reduce the funds we have available for other purposes, such as acquisitions; • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt; • placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that are not as highly leveraged; • limiting our ability to borrow additional funds; • reducing our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and market conditions; • exposing us to interest rate risk since a portion of our debt obligations are at variable rates; and • resulting in an event of default if we fail to satisfy our obligations under our debt or fail to comply with the financial or restrictive covenants contained in our debt instruments, which event of default could result in all of our debt becoming immediately due and payable and could permit certain of our lenders to foreclose on our assets securing such debt. Our ability to satisfy our obligations depends on our future operating performance and on economic, financial, competitive, and other factors beyond our control. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flow to meet these obligations. If we are unable to service our debt or obtain additional financing, we may be forced to delay strategic acquisitions, capital expenditures, or research and development expenditures. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms acceptable to us or at all. Additionally, the agreements governing our debt require that we maintain certain financial ratios, and contain affirmative and negative covenants that restrict our activities by, among other limitations, limiting our ability to incur additional indebtedness, make investments, create liens, sell assets, and enter into transactions with affiliates. The covenants in our credit agreement include a debt-to-EBITDA ratio. Please refer to Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for additional details. 23 Our ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants may be affected by events beyond our control. Our failure to comply with any of these restrictions or covenants may result in an event of default under the applicable debt instrument, which could permit acceleration of the debt under that instrument and require us to prepay that debt before its scheduled due date. Also, an acceleration of the debt under one of our debt instruments would trigger an event of default under other of our debt instruments. Risk Related to Shareholder Rights Certain provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws, and of Delaware law, may prevent or delay an acquisition of our company, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation (“Restated Certificate of Incorporation”) and amended and restated bylaws (“Amended and Restated Bylaws”) contain, and Delaware law contains, provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids and to encourage prospective acquirers to negotiate with the Board of Directors (the “Board”) rather than to attempt an unsolicited takeover not approved by the Board. These provisions include, among others: • the inability of our shareholders to act by written consent; • rules regarding how shareholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at shareholder meetings; • the right of the Board to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval; and • the ability of our directors, and not shareholders, to fill vacancies (including those resulting from an enlargement of the Board) on the Board. In addition, because we have not chosen to be exempt from Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law (the “DGCL”), this provision could also delay or prevent a change of control that our shareholders may favor. Section 203 provides that, subject to limited exceptions, persons that acquire, or are affiliated with a person that acquires, more than 15% of the outstanding voting stock of a Delaware corporation (an “interested stockholder”) shall not engage in any business combination with that corporation, including by merger, consolidation, or acquisitions of additional shares, for a three-year period following the date on which the person became an interested stockholder, unless (i) prior to such time, the board of directors of such corporation approved either the business combination or the transaction that resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder; (ii) upon consummation of the transaction that resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder, the interested stockholder owned at least 85% of the voting stock of such corporation at the time the transaction commenced (excluding for purposes of determining the voting stock outstanding (but not the outstanding voting stock owned by the interested stockholder) the voting stock owned by directors who are also officers or held in employee benefit plans in which the employees do not have a confidential right to tender or vote stock held by the plan); or (iii) on or subsequent to such time the business combination is approved by the board of directors of such corporation and authorized at a meeting of shareholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the outstanding voting stock of such corporation not owned by the interested stockholder. We believe these provisions will protect our shareholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with the Board and by providing the Board with more time to assess any acquisition proposal. These provisions are not intended to make our company immune from takeovers. However, these provisions will apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some shareholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that the Board determines is not in the best interests of our company and our shareholders. These provisions may also prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation designates the state courts in the State of Delaware or, if no state court located within the State of Delaware has jurisdiction, the federal court for the District of Delaware, as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our shareholders, which could discourage lawsuits against us and our directors and officers. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that unless the Board otherwise determines, the state courts in the State of Delaware or, if no state court located within the State of Delaware has jurisdiction, the federal court for the District of Delaware, will be the sole and exclusive forum for any derivative action or proceeding brought on behalf of our company, any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors or officers to our company or our shareholders, any action asserting a claim against our company or any of our directors or officers arising pursuant to any provision of the DGCL or our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or bylaws, or any action asserting a claim against our company or any of our directors or officers governed by the internal affairs doctrine. This exclusive forum provision may limit the ability of our shareholders to bring a claim in a judicial forum that such shareholders find favorable for disputes with our company or our directors or officers, which may discourage such lawsuits against our company and our directors and 24 officers. This exclusive forum provision would not apply to claims brought to enforce a duty or liability created by the Securities Act, the Exchange Act, or any other claim for which the federal courts have exclusive jurisdiction.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion and analysis of Fortive’s financial condition and results of operations for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022 should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. This Item generally discusses 2023 and 2022 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2023 and 2022. Discussions of 2021 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2022 and 2021 are not included, and can be found in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” (“MD&A”) in Part II, Item 7 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022 with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 28, 2023. Fortive is a provider of essential technologies for connected workflow solutions across a range of attractive end-markets. Our strategic segments - Intelligent Operating Solutions, Precision Technologies, and Advanced Healthcare Solutions - include well-known brands with leading positions in their markets. Our businesses design, develop, manufacture, and service professional and engineered products, software, and services, building upon leading brand names, innovative technologies, and significant market positions. We are headquartered in Everett, Washington and have a workforce of more than 18,000 research and development, manufacturing, sales, distribution, service, and administrative professionals in more than 50 countries around the world. This MD&A is designed to provide a reader of our financial statements with a narrative from the perspective of management. Our MD&A is divided into seven sections: • Basis of Presentation • Overview • Results of Operations • Financial Instruments and Risk Management • Liquidity and Capital Resources • Critical Accounting Estimates 29 • New Accounting Standards OVERVIEW General Fortive is a multinational business with global operations with approximately 46% of our sales derived from customers outside the United States in 2023. As a company with global operations, our businesses are affected by worldwide, regional, and industry-specific economic and political factors. Our geographic and industry diversity, as well as the range of products, software, and services we offer, typically help limit the impact of any one industry or the economy of any single country (except for the United States) on our operating results. Given the broad range of products manufactured, software and services provided, and geographies served, we do not use any indices other than general economic trends to predict the overall outlook for the Company. Our individual businesses monitor key competitors and customers, including their sales, to the extent possible, to gauge relative performance and the outlook for the future. As a result of our geographic and industry diversity, we face a variety of opportunities and challenges, including technological development in most of the markets we serve, the expansion and evolution of opportunities in high-growth markets, trends and costs associated with a global labor force, and consolidation of our competitors. We define high-growth markets as developing markets of the world experiencing extended periods of accelerated growth in gross domestic product and infrastructure which include Eastern Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Latin America, and Asia with the exception of Japan and Australia. We operate in a highly competitive business environment in most markets, and our long-term growth and profitability will depend, in particular, on our ability to expand our business across geographies and market segments, identify, consummate, and integrate appropriate acquisitions, develop innovative and differentiated new products, services, and software, expand and improve the effectiveness of our sales force, continue to reduce costs and improve operating efficiency and quality, attract relevant talent and retain, grow, and empower our talented workforce, and effectively address the demands of an increasingly regulated environment. We are making significant investments, organically and through acquisitions, to address technological change in the markets we serve and to improve our manufacturing, research and development, and customer-facing resources in order to be responsive to our customers throughout the world. Non-GAAP Measures In this report, references to sales from existing businesses refer to sales from operations calculated according to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (“GAAP”) but excluding (1) the impact from acquired and divested businesses and (2) the impact of currency translation. References to sales attributable to acquisitions or acquired businesses refer to GAAP sales from acquired businesses recorded prior to the first anniversary of the acquisition less the amount of sales attributable to certain divested businesses or product lines not considered discontinued operations prior to the first anniversary of the divestiture. The portion of sales attributable to the impact of currency translation is calculated as the difference between (a) the period-to-period change in sales (excluding sales impact from acquired businesses) and (b) the period-to-period change in sales (excluding sales impact from acquired businesses) after applying the current period foreign exchange rates to the prior year period. Sales from existing businesses should be considered in addition to, and not as a replacement for or superior to, sales, and may not be comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Management believes that reporting the non-GAAP financial measure of sales from existing businesses provides useful information to investors by helping identify underlying growth trends in our business and facilitating comparisons of our sales performance with our performance in prior and future periods and to our peers. We exclude the effect of acquisition and divestiture related items because the nature, size, and number of such transactions can vary dramatically from period to period and between us and our peers. We exclude the effect of currency translation from sales from existing businesses because the impact of currency translation is not under management’s control and is subject to volatility. Management believes the exclusion of the effect of acquisitions and divestitures and currency translation may facilitate the assessment of underlying business trends and may assist in comparisons of long-term performance. References to sales volume from existing businesses refer to the impact of both price and unit sales. Business Performance and Outlook Business Performance During 2023, aggregate year-over-year sales increased 4.1%, primarily due to an increase in sales from existing businesses which increased year over year by 4.8% comprised of favorable pricing of 4.5% and increased volume of 0.3%. Geographically, year-over-year sales from existing businesses in developed markets increased by mid-single-digits, driven by mid-single-digit growth in North America, low single-digit growth in Western Europe, and low double-digit growth in Japan. 30 Year-over-year sales from existing businesses in high growth markets increased mid-single-digits, driven by low single-digit growth in Asia, which includes low single-digit growth in China, and high single-digit growth in Latin America. The strengthening of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies reduced our sales by 0.6% during 2023, as compared to 2022 and may continue to impact our results in future periods. Sales from divested business, offset by revenue from acquisitions reduced sales by 0.1% as compared to 2022. Acquisitions During the year ended December 31, 2023, we made four acquisitions (“the 2023 acquisitions”) in our Intelligent Operating Solutions segment for an aggregate cash consideration of $101.4 million, which includes an immaterial deferred payment, net of acquired cash. The 2023 acquisitions are intended to accelerate our strategy and strengthen our product portfolio, providing world-class solutions to our customers. We recorded approximately $56.7 million of goodwill related to the acquisitions, which is not tax deductible. Divestitures On September 30, 2022, we completed the sale of our Therapy Physics product line, which was reported in our Advanced Healthcare Solutions segment, to an unrelated third party for cash consideration of $9.6 million. As a result of the sale, during the year ended December 31, 2022, we recorded a net realized pre-tax gain totaling $0.5 million, net of transaction costs, which was recorded within “Other non-operating expense, net” in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. The divestiture of this product line did not represent a strategic shift with a significant effect on the Company’s operations and financial results and therefore the divested product line is not reported as a discontinued operation. Restructuring We initiated a discrete plan in the first quarter of 2023 that was completed during the fourth quarter of 2023. The nature of these activities were broadly consistent throughout our segments and consist primarily of targeted workforce reductions in response to overall macroeconomic and other external conditions. We incurred these costs to position ourselves to provide superior products and services to customers in a cost-efficient manner, while taking into consideration the impact of broad economic uncertainties. We incurred charges of $58.6 million during the year ended December 31, 2023. These charges are recorded within Cost of sales and Selling, general, and administrative expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. Other Matters We experienced cybersecurity incidents in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2023. To date, the disruptions from the cybersecurity incidents did not materially impact business continuity or operations. We continue to actively investigate the incidents with the assistance of leading cybersecurity experts, including the nature of the data that was impacted, and continue to implement robust containment and remedial measures. On January 3, 2024, we acquired EA Elektro-Automatik Holding GmbH (“EA”), a leading supplier of high-power electronic test solutions for energy storage, mobility, hydrogen, and renewable energy applications. The total consideration paid was approximately $1.72 billion, net of acquired cash. We are currently in the process of finalizing the accounting for this transaction. On January 1, 2024, we realigned Invetech from the Advanced Healthcare Solutions segment to the Precision Technologies segment as we consider strategic alternatives for certain products and services of Invetech. The remaining products and operations of Invetech are more closely aligned with the Precision Technologies segment. In 2023, we entered into an agreement to optimize our real estate footprint within our Precision Technologies segment for proceeds of approximately $90 million. We expect the transaction to be completed in the first half of 2024, with a gain from the transaction recognized at the time of closing. 2024 Outlook We anticipate full year sales to grow on a year-over-year basis by approximately 6% and 8% with year-over-year growth from existing businesses of approximately 2% and 4%. 31 We expect foreign exchange rates to remain volatile throughout the year which could adversely impact our financial results. Additionally, our financial outlook is subject to various assumptions and risks, including but not limited to, macroeconomic conditions in the United States and other critical regions, ongoing challenges with global logistics and supply chains, disruption in supply or transportation resulting from severe weather or other events, impact of inflationary dynamics on our expenses or our ability to realize price increases in our sales, interest rates, market conditions in key product segments, and elective surgery rates. We will continue to deploy FBS to actively manage production challenges, collaborate with customers and suppliers to minimize disruptions and utilize pricing and other countermeasures to offset the aforementioned dynamics. We continue to monitor these conditions which may continue to impact our business, as well as potential adverse global economic trends and sentiments, monetary and fiscal policies, international trade and relations between the U.S., China and other nations, and investment and taxation policy initiatives being considered in the United States and by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (“OECD”), including the potential impact of the Pillar Two initiative. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Components of Sales Growth Refer to Intelligent Operating Solutions, Precision Technologies, and Advanced Healthcare Solutions sections below for further discussion of year-over-year sales growth. Operating Profit Margins 2023 vs. 2022 Operating profit margins were 18.7% for the year ended December 31, 2023, an increase of 180 basis points as compared to 16.9% in 2022 with year-over-year operating profit margin comparisons impacted by: • Year-over-year increase in price and volume from existing businesses and gains from productivity measures, which were partially offset by higher employee compensation, unfavorable product mix and foreign exchange rates — favorable 160 basis points • The year-over-year effect of amortization from existing businesses offset by impairment of intangible assets — favorable 40 basis points • The year-over-year net effect of acquisition-related transaction costs which were lower in 2023 — favorable 40 basis points • The year-over-year net effect of acquired and divested businesses, including amortization, and acquisition-related fair value adjustments — favorable 5 basis points • The year-over-year effect of costs relating to the discrete restructuring plan in 2023 — unfavorable 95 basis points • Russia exit and wind down costs that were incurred during 2022 — favorable 30 basis points 32 Business Segments and Geographic Area Results Sales by business segment and geographic area for the year ended December 31 are as follows ($ in millions): INTELLIGENT OPERATING SOLUTIONS Our Intelligent Operating Solutions segment provides advanced instrumentation, software and services to tens of thousands of customers enabling their mission-critical workflows. These offerings include electrical test & measurement, facility and asset lifecycle software applications, connected worker safety and compliance solutions across a range of vertical end markets, including manufacturing, process industries, healthcare, utilities and power, communications and electronics, among others. Intelligent Operating Solutions Selected Financial Data Components of Sales Growth 2023 COMPARED TO 2022 The sales result for 2023 was driven by price increases across the segment and demand in software and service offering in EHS and facility and asset lifecycle applications, partially offset by volume reductions in certain products in our test and measurement instrumentation business. Geographically, year-over-year sales from existing businesses in developed markets increased by mid-single-digits during 2023, driven by mid-single-digit growth in North America and low single-digit growth in Western Europe. Sales in high growth markets increased by low double-digits during 2023, driven by low double-digit growth in Asia, including low double-digit growth in China. Year-over-year price increases in our Intelligent Operating Solutions segment contributed 4.2% to sales growth in 2023, as compared to 2022, and is reflected as a component of the change in sales from existing businesses. 33 Operating profit margin increased 300 basis points during 2023 as compared to 2022. Year-over-year changes in operating profit margin were comprised of the following: • Year-over-year increase in price and sales volume from existing businesses and gains from productivity measures, partially offset by higher employee compensation — favorable 315 basis points • The year-over-year effect of amortization from existing businesses offset by impairment of intangible assets — favorable 20 basis points • The year-over-year effect of acquisition-related transaction costs which were lower in 2023 — favorable 65 basis points • The year-over-year effect of acquired businesses, including amortization, and acquisition-related fair value adjustments — unfavorable 10 basis points • The year-over-year effect of costs relating to the d iscrete restructuring plan in 2023 — unfavorable 90 basis points PRECISION TECHNOLOGIES Our Precision Technologies segment helps solve tough technical challenges to speed breakthroughs in a wide range of applications, from food and beverage production and manufacturing to next-generation electric vehicles and clean energy, as our customers seek new test solutions to enable the electrification and connectivity of everything. Our expertise in materials, methods and measurements are reflected in our electrical test & measurement, sensing and material technologies offered to a broad set of customers and vertical end markets, including industrial, power and energy, automotive, medical equipment, food and beverage, aerospace and defense, semiconductor, and other general industries. Precision Technologies Selected Financial Data Components of Sales Growth 2023 COMPARED TO 2022 The sales result for 2023 was driven by price increases across the segment and volume increases with test and measurement products, power and energy equipment and energetic materials, partially offset by volume reductions in certain end markets for sensing technologies. Geographically, year-over-year sales from existing businesses in developed markets increased by high single-digits during 2023, driven by high single-digit growth in both North America, low single-digit growth in Western Europe, and mid-teens growth in Japan. Sales in high growth markets increased by low single-digits during 2023, where we saw low-forties growth in the Middle East and a low single-digit decline in Asia, which includes a low single-digit decline in China. Year-over-year price increases in our Precision Technologies segment contributed 5.7% to sales growth during 2023 as compared to 2022, and is reflected as a component of the change in sales from existing businesses. Operating profit margin increased 120 basis points during 2023 as compared to 2022. Year-over-year changes in operating profit margin were comprised of the following: 34 • Year-over-year increases in price from existing businesses and gains from productivity measures, all partially offset by higher employee compensation, unfavorable product mix, and reductions in volume — favorable 170 basis points • The year-over-year effect of amortization from existing businesses — favorable 50 basis points • The year-over-year effects of acquisition-related transaction expenses incurred in 2023 - unfavorable 10 basis points • The year-over-year effect of costs relating to the discrete restructuring plan in 2023 — unfavorable 90 basis points ADVANCED HEALTHCARE SOLUTIONS Our Advanced Healthcare Solutions segment supplies critical workflow solutions enabling healthcare providers to deliver exceptional patient care more efficiently. Our offerings include instrument sterilization solutions, instrument tracking, cell therapy equipment design and manufacturing, biomedical test tools, radiation detection and safety monitoring, and end-to-end clinical productivity software and solutions. Our healthcare offerings help ensure critical safety standards are met, instruments and operating rooms are working at peak performance, and complex procedures are followed accurately in these mission-critical healthcare environments. Advanced Healthcare Solutions Selected Financial Data Components of Sales Growth 2023 COMPARED TO 2022 The sales results for 2023 was primarily driven by price increases across the segment and demand increases for software and related services, partially offset by a reduction in volume in system design services. Geographically, year-over-year sales from existing businesses in developed markets increased by low single-digits during 2023, driven by low single-digit growth in both North America and Western Europe, as well as high single-digit growth in Japan. Sales in high growth markets increased low single-digits during 2023, with mid-teens growth in Latin America and mid-single-digit growth in China, partially offset by mid-single-digit decline in the rest of Asia and a mid-twenties decline in Eastern Europe driven by the exit from Russia in 2022. Year-over-year price increases in our Advanced Healthcare Solutions segment contributed 3.1% to sales growth during 2023, as compared to 2022, and is reflected as a component of the change in sales from existing businesses. Operating profit margin decreased 20 basis points during 2023 as compared to 2022. Year-over-year changes in operating profit margin comparisons were comprised of the following: • Year-over-year sales increases in price from existing businesses and gains from productivity measures were offset by unfavorable product mix, reductions in volume, higher employee compensation, and other operating expenses — unfavorable 5 basis points • The year-over-year effect of amortization from existing businesses — favorable 20 basis points 35 • The year-over-year net effect of acquisition-related transaction costs which were incurred in 2022 — favorable 65 basis points • The year-over-year effect of divested businesses, including amortization, and acquisition-related fair value adjustments to inventory — favorable 20 basis points • The year-over-year effect of costs relating to the discrete restructuring plan in 2023 — unfavorable 120 basis points COST OF SALES AND GROSS PROFIT The year-over-year increase in gross profit during 2023 as compared to 2022 is due to year-over-year increases in price and volume, productivity measures and FBS initiatives, all partially offset by higher employee compensation costs, restructuring charges and foreign exchange rates. OPERATING EXPENSES SG&A expenses increased during 2023 as compared to 2022 due to increased employee compensation expenses, customer acquisition and marketing costs, and restructuring costs, partially offset by savings from productivity measures. R&D expenses, consisting principally of internal and contract engineering personnel costs, decreased slightly during 2023 as compared to 2022 due to favorable timing of project expenditures, partially offset by higher compensation costs. RUSSIA EXIT AND WIND DOWN COSTS In February 2022, Russian forces invaded Ukraine resulting in broad economic sanctions being imposed on Russia. In the second quarter of 2022, the Company exited business operations in Russia, other than for ASP’s sterilization products, which are exempt from international sanctions as humanitarian products. During the year ended December 31, 2022, the Company recorded pre-tax charges of $17.9 million, primarily relating to the write-off of net assets, the cumulative translation adjustment in earnings for legal entities deemed substantially liquidated, and to record provisions for employee severance and legal contingencies. These costs are identified as the “Russia exit and wind down costs” in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. The exit activities were completed in 2022. INTEREST COSTS For a discussion of our outstanding indebtedness, refer to Note 10 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Net interest expense was $123.5 million during 2023, compared to $98.3 million during 2022. The year-over-year interest expense increase was due to higher interest rates incurred on floating rate debt instruments, despite overall lower debt balance levels carried during the year. 36 INCOME TAXES General Income tax expense and deferred tax assets and liabilities reflect management’s assessment of future taxes expected to be paid on items reflected in our financial statements. We record the tax effect of discrete items and items that are reported net of their tax effects in the period in which they occur. Our effective tax rate can be affected by, among others, changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates (including as a result of business acquisitions and dispositions), changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, accruals related to contingent tax liabilities and period-to-period changes in such accruals, the results of audits and examinations of previously filed tax returns (as discussed below), the expiration of statutes of limitations, the implementation of tax planning strategies, tax rulings, court decisions, settlements with tax authorities, and changes in tax laws. The amount of income taxes we pay is subject to audit by federal, state, and foreign tax authorities, which may result in proposed assessments. The Company is subject to examination in the United States, various states and foreign jurisdiction for the tax years 2015 to 2023. These examinations include filings of tax returns prior to our separation from Danaher, tax returns of enterprises no longer in our portfolio, and tax returns for pre-acquisition periods of enterprises added to our portfolio. Significant obligations are detailed in our tax matters agreements in connection with the separation of Fortive from Danaher on July 1, 2016, the split-off of the Automation and Specialty business on October 1, 2018, and the Vontier separation on October 9, 2020. We review our global tax positions on a quarterly basis. Based on these reviews, the results of discussions and resolutions of matters with certain tax authorities, tax rulings and court decisions, and the expiration of statutes of limitations reserves for contingent tax liabilities are accrued or adjusted as necessary. We conduct business globally, and, as part of our global business, we file numerous income tax returns in the U.S. federal, state, and foreign jurisdictions. We believe that a change in the statutory tax rate of any individual foreign country would not typically have a material effect on our financial statements given the geographic dispersion of our taxable income. Changes by the U.S. in relation to international tax reform could increase uncertainty and may adversely affect our income tax provision, cash taxes paid, and effective tax rate. Any future adjustments resulting from retrospective regulations and guidance issued will be considered as discrete income tax expense or benefit in the interim period the guidance is issued. Furthermore, changes in multilateral agreements and the tax laws of foreign jurisdictions could arise as a result of the base erosion and profit shifting project undertaken by the Organization for Economic Co-Operation and Development (the “OECD”) and could significantly increase our tax provision, cash taxes paid, and effective tax rate in future years. The OECD has issued significant global tax policy changes that include both expanded reporting as well as technical global tax policy changes. During 2021, an agreed framework and model rules for a global minimum corporate tax rate of fifteen percent (15%) was released by the OECD. Many countries in which we operate have implemented legislation to align with model rules and with effective dates spanning from 2024 through 2025. The Company will continue to monitor and evaluate the impact of OECD policy changes as foreign jurisdictions continue to adopt OECD guidance. For a discussion of risks related to these and other tax matters, please refer to “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” Comparison of the Years Ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 Our effective tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022 was 12.6% and 13.5%, respectively. Our effective tax rate for 2023 differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% due primarily to the positive and negative effects of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“TCJA”), U.S. federal permanent differences, the impacts of credits and deductions provided by law, including those associated with state income taxes, a decrease in our uncertain tax positions, and the effect of changes in tax rates enacted in the current period. COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Comprehensive income increased by $251 million in 2023 as compared to 2022, primarily due to a favorable change in foreign currency translation adjustments of $188 million, an increase in net income of $111 million, and unfavorable changes in pension benefit adjustments of $48 million. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT We are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, credit risk and commodity prices, each of which could impact our financial statements. We generally address our exposure to these risks through our 37 normal operating and financing activities. In addition, our broad-based business activities help to reduce the impact that volatility in any particular area or related areas may have on our operating profit as a whole. Interest Rate Risk We manage interest cost using a mixture of fixed-rate and variable-rate debt. A change in interest rates on long-term debt impacts the fair value of our fixed-rate long-term debt but not our earnings or cash flows because the interest on such debt is fixed. Generally, the fair market value of fixed-rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. As of December 31, 2023, an increase of 100 basis points in interest rates would have decreased the fair value of our fixed-rate long-term debt by approximately $78 million. As of December 31, 2023, our variable-rate debt obligations consist of U.S. dollar denominated commercial paper, U.S. dollar denominated delay-draw term loan, and senior unsecured term facilities denominated in either Euros or Japanese Yen (refer to Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for information regarding our outstanding indebtedness as of December 31, 2023). As a result, our primary interest rate exposure results from changes in short-term interest rates. As these shorter duration obligations mature, we anticipate issuing additional short-term commercial paper obligations and/or term loans to refinance all or part of these borrowings. The annual effective rate associated with our outstanding variable-rate obligation was approximately 5.15% with interest expense of $83 million. On an annualized basis, a hypothetical 10 basis points increase in market interest rates as of December 31, 2023 on our variable-rate debt obligations as of December 31, 2023 would have increased our interest expense by approximately $2.2 million in 2023. Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk We face transactional exchange rate risk from transactions with customers in countries outside of the United States and from intercompany transactions between affiliates. Transactional exchange rate risk arises from the purchase and sale of goods and services in currencies other than our functional currency or the functional currency of an applicable subsidiary. We also face translational exchange rate risk related to the translation of financial statements of our foreign operations into U.S. dollars, our functional currency. Costs incurred and sales recorded by subsidiaries operating outside of the United States are translated into U.S. dollars using exchange rates effective during the respective period. As a result, we are exposed to movements in the exchange rates of various currencies against the U.S. dollar. The effect of a change in currency exchange rates on our net investment in international subsidiaries is reflected in the accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (“AOCI”) component of equity. A 10% depreciation in major currencies relative to the U.S. dollar as of December 31, 2023 would have resulted in a reduction of foreign currency-denominated net assets and stockholders’ equity of approximately $186 million. During the second quarter of 2022, we designated our ¥14.4 billion Yen-denominated variable interest rate term loan and our €275 million Euro-denominated variable interest rate term loan outstanding as net investment hedges of our investment in certain foreign operations. Accordingly, foreign currency transaction gains or losses on the debt were deferred in the foreign currency translation component of AOCI as an offset to the foreign currency translation adjustments on our investments in foreign subsidiaries. For the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, we recognized after-tax losses of $1.2 million and $5.1 million, respectively, in Other comprehensive income (loss) related to the net investment hedges. Currency exchange rates unfavorably impacted 2023 reported sales by 0.6% as compared to 2022, as the U.S. dollar was, on average, stronger against most major currencies during 2023 as compared to exchange rate levels during 2022. In the fourth quarter of 2023, the U.S. dollar was, on average, weaker against most major currencies. If the exchange rates in effect as of December 31, 2023 were to prevail throughout 2024, currency exchange rates would positively impact 2024 estimated sales by approximately 0.3% relative to our performance in 2023. In general, additional strengthening of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies would further negatively impact our sales and results of operations on an overall basis and any strengthening of the U.S. dollar against other major currencies would adversely impact our sales and results of operations. We have generally accepted the exposure to exchange rate movements without using derivative financial instruments to manage this risk. Both positive and negative movements in currency exchange rates against the U.S. dollar will therefore continue to affect the reported amount of sales, profit, and assets and liabilities in our consolidated financial statements. Credit Risk We are exposed to potential credit losses in the event of nonperformance by counterparties to our financial instruments. Financial instruments that potentially subject us to credit risk consist of cash and highly-liquid investment grade cash equivalents and receivables from customers. We place cash and cash equivalents with various high-quality financial institutions throughout the world and exposure is limited at any one institution. Although we typically do not obtain collateral or other security to secure these obligations, we regularly monitor the third party depository institutions that hold our cash and cash equivalents. We emphasize safety and liquidity of principal over yield on those funds. In addition, concentrations of credit risk 38 arising from receivables from customers are limited due to the diversity of our customers. Our businesses perform credit evaluations of their customers’ financial conditions as appropriate and also obtain collateral or other security when appropriate. Commodity Price Risk For a discussion of risks relating to commodity prices, refer to “Item 1A. Risk Factors.” LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES We assess our liquidity in terms of our ability to generate cash to fund our operating, investing, and financing activities. We generate substantial cash from operating activities and believe that our operating cash flow and other sources of liquidity, which consist of available cash, our revolving credit facility, and access to commercial paper, bank loans, and capital markets, will be sufficient to allow us to continue funding and investing in our existing businesses, consummate strategic acquisitions, make interest and principal payments on our outstanding indebtedness, fulfill our contractual obligations, and manage our capital structure on a short and long-term basis. We have generally satisfied any short-term liquidity needs that are not met through operating cash flows and available cash through issuances of commercial paper under our U.S. dollar and Euro-denominated commercial paper programs (“Commercial Paper Programs”). Credit support for the Commercial Paper Programs is provided by a five-year $2.0 billion senior unsecured revolving credit facility that expires on October 18, 2027 (the “Revolving Credit Facility”) which, to the extent not otherwise providing credit support for the commercial paper programs, can also be used for working capital and other general corporate purposes. As of December 31, 2023, no borrowings were outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility. The availability of the Revolving Credit Facility as a standby liquidity facility to repay maturing commercial paper is an important factor in maintaining the existing credit ratings of the Commercial Paper Programs when we have outstanding borrowings. We expect to limit any future borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility to amounts that would leave sufficient credit available under the facility to allow us to borrow, if needed, and repay any outstanding commercial paper as it matures. Our ability to access the commercial paper market, and the related costs of these borrowings, is affected by the strength of our credit rating and market conditions. Any downgrade in our credit rating would increase the cost of borrowing under our commercial paper programs and the Credit Agreement, and could limit or preclude our ability to issue commercial paper. If our access to the commercial paper market is adversely affected due to a downgrade, change in market conditions, or otherwise, we would expect to rely on a combination of available cash, operating cash flow, and the Revolving Credit Facility to provide short-term funding. In such event, the cost of borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility could be higher than the historic cost of commercial paper borrowings. On June 7, 2023, we filed with the SEC an “automatic shelf” registration statement (the “Shelf Registration Statement”). Under the Shelf Registration Statement, we may from time to time sell shares of common stock, preferred stock, debt securities, depositary shares, purchase contracts, purchase units, warrants and subscription rights in one or more offerings. For additional information regarding the Company’s recent registered offering of €500 million aggregate principal amount of our 3.7% Euro-denominated senior unsecured notes due 2026 and €700 million aggregate principal amount of our 3.7% Euro-denominated senior unsecured notes due 2029, refer to Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We continue to monitor the financial markets, the stability of U.S and international banks and general global economic conditions. If changes in financial markets or other areas of the economy adversely affect our access to the capital markets and other financing sources, we would expect to rely on a combination of available cash and existing available capacity under our credit facilities to provide short-term funding. 39 Overview of Cash Flows and Liquidity Following is an overview of our cash flows and liquidity: Operating Activities Operating cash flows can fluctuate significantly from period-to-period as working capital needs and the timing of payments for income taxes, interest, pension funding, and other items impact reported cash flows. Operating cash flows were approximately $1.4 billion in 2023, representing an increase of $50 million, or approximately 3.9%, as compared to 2022, and primarily attributable to the following factors: • Year-over-year increases of $112 million in Operating cash flow from net earnings, net of non-cash items (Amortization, Depreciation, Stock-based compensation, and Russia exit and wind down costs incurred in 2022). • The aggregate changes in accounts receivable, inventories, and trade accounts payable used $9 million of cash during 2023 compared to using $11 million of cash during 2022. The amount of cash flow generated from or used by the aggregate of accounts receivable, inventories, and trade accounts payable depends upon how effectively we manage the cash conversion cycle, which generally represents the number of days that elapse from the day we pay for the purchase of raw materials and components to the collection of cash from our customers, and can be significantly impacted by the timing of collections and payments in a period. • The aggregate change in prepaid expenses and other assets, accrued expenses and other liabilities, and changes in deferred income taxes used $74 million of cash in 2023 as compared to using $10 million in 2022. The year-over-year changes were driven by timing differences in tax payments and employee compensation and benefits. Investing Activities Investing cash outflows consist primarily of cash paid for acquisitions and capital expenditures. Net cash used in investing activities was approximately $195 million during 2023 compared to approximately $103 million of net cash used in 2022, respectively. The increase in investing cash outflow during 2023 as compared to 2022 was primarily due to a year-over-year increase of $83 million in cash used for acquisitions, net of cash acquired and a $12 million increase in capital expenditures. Capital expenditures are made primarily for increasing production capacity, replacing aged equipment, supporting product development initiatives for hardware and software offerings, improving information technology systems, and purchasing equipment used in revenue arrangements with customers. Capital expenditures totaled $108 million in 2023 and $96 million in 2022. We expect capital spending to be between approximately $100 million and $120 million in 2024, though actual expenditures will ultimately depend on business conditions. 40 Financing Activities and Indebtedness Financing cash flows consist primarily of cash flows associated with the issuance and repayments of debt and commercial paper, payments of cash dividends to shareholders. Financing activities from continuing operations generated cash of $32 million in 2023, and used cash of $1.3 billion in 2022. Financing activities during 2023 reflected the following transactions: • On December 7, 2023, we entered into a term loan credit agreement, which provides for a 364-days delayed draw term loan facility up to an aggregate principal amount of $1.3 billion. On December 14, 2023, we drew down $550 million of the $1.3 billion delayed-draw senior unsecured term facility (“Delayed-Draw Term Loan due 2024”) as a Term Secured Overnight Financing Rate (“Term SOFR”) Loan. The repayment of the principal is due on December 12, 2024. • We borrowed $840 million in net commercial paper under the U.S. dollar-denominated commercial paper program. • On August 24, 2023, we repaid $250 million in outstanding principal of the Delayed-Draw Term Loan due 2023. On December 14, 2023, we repaid the remaining $750 million in outstanding principal and accrued interest thereon using the proceeds from the Delayed-Draw Term Loan due 2024 and available cash. • We repurchased 4 million shares of our common stock for approximately $273 million under our share repurchase program. • Dividend payments to common shareholders totaling $102 million. Financing activities during 2022 reflected the following transactions: • On June 17, 2022, we entered into a three-year, ¥14.4 billion Yen Term Loan. On the same day, we drew and converted the entire available balance under the facility, which yielded net proceeds of $107 million. • On June 21, 2022, we entered into a three-year €275 million Euro Term Loan. On June 28, 2022, we drew and converted the entire available balance under the facility, which yielded net proceeds of $290 million. • On October 18, 2022, we entered into a term loan credit agreement, which provides for a 364-day delayed draw term loan facility up to an aggregate principal amount of $1.0 billion. On December 15, 2022, we drew down the full $1.0 billion delayed-draw senior unsecured term facility (“Delayed-Draw Term Loan Due 2023”) as a Term SOFR Loan. The repayment of the principal is due on December 14 2023. We concurrently repaid the $1.0 billion in outstanding principal of the Delayed-Draw Term Loan due 2022 and accrued interest thereon. • We increased borrowings by $39 million in net commercial paper under the U.S. dollar-denominated commercial paper program. As of December 31, 2023, the commercial paper borrowings had a weighted average annual effective rate of 4.80% and a weighted average maturity of approximately 32 days. • On February 15, 2022, the maturity date of the Convertible Notes, we repaid, in cash, $1.2 billion in outstanding principal and accrued interest thereon. • We repurchased 7 million shares of our outstanding common stock for approximately $443 million under our publicly-announced share repurchase program. • Dividend payments to common shareholders totaling $99.5 million. We generally expect to satisfy any short-term liquidity needs that are not met through operating cash flows and available cash primarily through term loans or issuances of commercial paper under the Commercial Paper Programs, with credit support provided by the Revolving Credit Facility. The carrying value of total debt outstanding as of December 31, 2023 was approximately $3.6 billion. We had $2.0 billion available under the Revolving Credit Facility as of December 31, 2023. The availability of the Revolving Credit Facility as a standby liquidity facility to repay maturing commercial paper is an important factor in maintaining the existing credit ratings of the Commercial Paper Programs when we have outstanding borrowings. As of December 31, 2023 and 2022, we had $1.3 billion and $405.0 million borrowings outstanding under our Commercial Paper Program, respectively. We expect to limit any future borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility to amounts that would leave sufficient credit available under the facility to allow us to borrow, if needed, to repay any outstanding commercial paper as it matures. Refer to Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the Company’s financing activities and indebtedness, including the Company’s outstanding debt as of December 31, 2023, financing activities subsequent to December 31, 2023, the Company’s commercial paper program, and the Revolving Credit Facility. Refer to Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of the Company’s share repurchase program. 41 Dividends On November 2, 2023, we declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.08 per common share paid on December 29, 2023 to holders of record on November 24, 2023. Cash and Cash Requirements Cash As of December 31, 2023, we held approximately $1.9 billion of cash and cash equivalents that were invested in highly liquid investment-grade instruments with a maturity of 90 days or less and yielded insignificant interest income during 2023. Approximately 35.0% of the $1.9 billion in cash and cash equivalents was held outside of the United States. Subsequent to December 31, 2023 we used available cash to fund our acquisition of EA Elektro-Automatik Holding GmbH (“EA”) which closed on January 3, 2024. Refer to Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding the EA acquisition. We have cash requirements to support working capital needs, capital expenditures and acquisitions, pay interest and service debt, pay taxes and any related interest or penalties, fund our pension plans as required, pay dividends to shareholders, and support other business needs or objectives. With respect to our cash requirements, we generally intend to use available cash and internally generated funds to meet these cash requirements, but in the event that additional liquidity is required, particularly in connection with acquisitions and repayment of maturing debt, we may also borrow under our commercial paper programs or credit facilities or enter into new credit facilities and either borrow directly thereunder or use such credit facilities to backstop additional borrowing capacity under our commercial paper programs. We also may from time to time access the capital markets, including to take advantage of favorable interest rate environments or other market conditions. Foreign cumulative earnings remain subject to foreign remittance taxes. We have made an election regarding the amount of earnings that we do not intend to repatriate due to local working capital needs, local law restrictions, high foreign remittance costs, previous investments in physical assets and acquisitions, or future growth needs. For most of our foreign operations, we make an assertion regarding the amount of earnings in excess of intended repatriation that are expected to be held for indefinite reinvestment. No provisions for foreign remittance taxes have been made with respect to earnings that are planned to be reinvested indefinitely. The amount of foreign remittance taxes that may be applicable to such earnings is not readily determinable given local law restrictions that may apply to a portion of such earnings, unknown changes in foreign tax law that may occur during the applicable restriction periods caused by applicable local corporate law for cash repatriation, and the various tax planning alternatives we could employ if we repatriated these earnings. 42 Cash Requirements The following table sets forth a summary of our short-term and long-term cash requirements as of December 31, 2023 under (1) long-term debt principal and interest obligations, (2) leases, (3) purchase obligations and (4) other long-term liabilities reflected on our balance sheet under GAAP. Certain of our acquisitions may involve the potential payment of contingent consideration. The table below does not reflect any such obligations, as the timing and amounts of any such payments are uncertain. In addition to the obligations noted above, we have issued guarantees, consisting primarily of outstanding standby letters of credit, bank guarantees, and performance and bid bonds, in connection with certain arrangements with vendors, customers, financing counterparties, and governmental entities to secure our obligations and/or performance requirements related to specific transactions. These guarantees are not recorded on our balance sheet and $46 million in commitments expire within one year of December 31, 2023 and $11 million later than one year from December 31, 2023. During 2023, we contributed $1 million and $11 million to our U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans, respectively. During 2023, our cash contribution requirements for our U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans are expected to be approximately $1 million and $9 million, respectively. The ultimate amounts we will contribute depend upon, among other things, legal requirements, underlying asset returns, the plan’s funded status, the anticipated tax deductibility of the contribution, local practices, market conditions, interest rates, and other factors. As of December 31, 2023 we expect to have sufficient liquidity to satisfy our cash needs for the foreseeable future, including our cash needs in the United States. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES Management’s discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and 43 expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We base these estimates and judgments on historical experience, the current economic environment, and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results may differ materially from these estimates and judgments. We believe the following accounting estimates are most critical to an understanding of our financial statements. Estimates are considered to be critical if they meet both of the following criteria: (1) the estimate requires assumptions about material matters that are uncertain at the time the estimate is made, and (2) material changes in the estimate are reasonably likely from period to period. For a detailed discussion on the application of these and other accounting estimates, refer to Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. Acquired Intangibles and Goodwill : Our business acquisitions typically result in the recognition of goodwill, developed technology, and other intangible assets, which affect the amount of future period amortization expense and possible impairment charges that we may incur. Refer to Notes 2, 3 and 6 to the consolidated financial statements for a description of our policies relating to goodwill, acquired intangibles, and acquisitions. In performing our goodwill impairment testing, we estimate the fair value of our reporting units primarily using a market based approach. We estimate fair value based on multiples of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (“EBITDA”) determined by current trading market multiples of earnings for companies operating in businesses similar to each of our reporting units, in addition to recent market available sale transactions of comparable businesses. In evaluating the estimates derived by the market based approach, we make judgments about the relevance and reliability of the multiples by considering factors unique to our reporting units, including operating results, business plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows, and transactions and marketplace data as well as judgments about the comparability of the market proxies selected. In certain circumstances we also evaluate other factors including results of the estimated fair value utilizing a discounted cash flow analysis (i.e., an income approach), market positions of the businesses, comparability of market sales transactions, and financial and operating performance in order to validate the results of the market approach. The discounted cash flow model requires judgmental assumptions about projected revenue growth, future operating margins, discount rates, and terminal values. There are inherent uncertainties related to these assumptions and management’s judgment in applying them to the analysis of goodwill impairment. In 2023, we performed goodwill impairment testing for our reporting units. Reporting units that include recent acquisitions generally present the highest risk of impairment. We believe the impairment risk associated with these reporting units generally decreases as we integrate these businesses and better position them for potential future earnings growth. As of the date of the 2023 annual impairment test, the carrying value of goodwill in each reporting unit ranged from $180.0 million to $5.6 billion. Our annual goodwill impairment analysis in 2023 indicated that, in all instances, the fair values of our reporting units exceeded their carrying values and consequently did not result in an impairment charge. The excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value (expressed as a percentage of carrying value for the respective reporting unit) for each of our reporting units as of the annual testing date ranged from approximately 60% to approximately 801%. In order to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value calculations used in the goodwill impairment test, we applied a hypothetical 10% decrease to the fair values of each reporting unit and compared those hypothetical values to the reporting unit carrying values. Based on this hypothetical 10% decrease, the excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value (expressed as a percentage of carrying value for the respective reporting unit) for each of our reporting units ranged from approximately 44% to approximately 711%. We evaluated other factors relating to the fair value of the reporting units, including, as applicable, results of the estimated fair value using an income approach, market positions of the businesses, comparability of market sales transactions and financial and operating performance, and concluded no impairment charges were required. We review identified intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the related carrying amounts may not be recoverable. Determining whether an impairment loss occurred for intangible assets with definite lives requires a comparison of the carrying amount to the sum of undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. We also test intangible assets with indefinite lives at least annually for impairment. These analyses require management to make judgments and estimates about future revenues, expenses, market conditions, and discount rates related to these assets. We evaluated events or circumstances that may indicate the carrying value of our intangible assets may not be fully recoverable during the year ended December 31, 2023, and recorded no material impairments. If actual results are not consistent with management’s estimates and assumptions, goodwill and other intangible assets may be overstated and a charge would need to be taken against net earnings which would adversely affect our financial statements. Revenue Recognition : We derive revenue from the sale of products and services. Revenue is recognized when control over the promised products or services is transferred to the customer in an amount that reflects the consideration that we expect to receive in exchange for those goods or services. In determining if control has transferred, we consider whether certain indicators of the transfer of control are present, such as the transfer of title, present right to payment, significant risks and 44 rewards of ownership, and customer acceptance when acceptance is not a formality. To determine the consideration that the customer owes us, we make judgments regarding the amount of customer allowances and rebates, consisting primarily of volume discounts and other short-term incentive programs. Refer to Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for a description of our revenue recognition policies. If our judgments regarding revenue recognition prove incorrect, our reported revenues in particular periods may be adversely affected. Historically, our estimates of revenue have been materially correct. Pension : For a description of our pension accounting practices, refer to Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements. Certain of our U.S. and non-U.S. employees participate in noncontributory defined benefit pension plans. Calculations of the amount of pension costs and obligations depend on the assumptions used in the actuarial valuations, including assumptions regarding discount rates, expected return on plan assets, rates of salary increases, health care cost trend rates, mortality rates, and other factors. If the assumptions used in calculating pension and other post-retirement benefits costs and obligations are incorrect or if the factors underlying the assumptions change (as a result of differences in actual experience, changes in key economic indicators, or other factors), our financial statements could be materially affected. A 50 basis point reduction in the discount rates used for the plans during 2023 would have increased the net obligation by approximately $16 million from the amounts recorded in the financial statements as of December 31, 2023. Our plan assets consist of various insurance contracts, equity and debt securities as determined by the administrator of each plan. The estimated long-term rate of return for the plans was determined on a plan by plan basis based on the nature of the plan assets and ranged from 1.50% to 6.47%. If the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets during 2023 was reduced by 50 basis points, pension expense in 2023 would have increased by approximately $0.9 million ($0.8 million on an after-tax basis). Income Taxes : For a description of our income tax accounting policies, refer to Note 2 and Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements. In accordance with GAAP, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the difference between the financial statement and tax basis of assets and liabilities using enacted rates expected to be in effect during the year in which the differences reverse. Deferred tax assets generally represent items that can be used as a tax deduction or credit in our tax return in future years for which the tax benefit has already been reflected in our Consolidated Statements of Earnings. Deferred tax liabilities generally represent items that have already been taken as a deduction on our tax return but have not yet been recognized as an expense in our Consolidated Statements of Earnings. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities due to a change in tax rates is recognized in income tax expense in the period that includes the enactment date. Our deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance if, based on the weight of available evidence, it is more likely than not (a likelihood of more than 50 percent) that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. We evaluate the realizability of deferred income tax assets for each of the jurisdictions in which we operate. If we experience cumulative pretax income in a particular jurisdiction in the three-year period including the current and prior two years, we normally conclude that the deferred income tax assets will more likely than not be realizable and no valuation allowance is recognized, unless known or planned operating developments would lead management to conclude otherwise. However, if we experience cumulative pretax losses in a particular jurisdiction in the three-year period including the current and prior two years, we then consider a series of factors in the determination of whether the deferred income tax assets can be realized. These factors include historical operating results, known or planned operating developments, the period of time over which certain temporary differences will reverse, consideration of the utilization of certain deferred income tax liabilities, tax law carryback capability in the particular country, and prudent and feasible tax planning strategies. After evaluation of these factors, if the deferred income tax assets are expected to be realized within the tax carryforward period allowed for that specific country, we would conclude that no valuation allowance would be required. To the extent that the deferred income tax assets exceed the amount that is expected to be realized within the tax carryforward period for a particular jurisdiction, we establish a valuation allowance. We recognize tax benefits from uncertain tax positions only if, in our assessment, it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such positions are measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. Judgment is required in evaluating tax positions and determining income tax provisions. We re-evaluate the technical merits of our tax positions and may recognize an uncertain tax benefit in certain circumstances, including when: (i) a tax audit is completed; (ii) applicable tax laws change, including a tax case ruling or legislative guidance; or (iii) the applicable statute of limitations expires. We recognize potential accrued interest and penalties with unrecognized tax positions in income tax expense. In addition, we are routinely examined by various domestic and international taxing authorities. The amount of income taxes we pay is subject to audit by federal, state, and foreign tax authorities, which may result in proposed assessments (see “-Results of Operations - Income Taxes” and Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements). We review our global tax positions on a 45 quarterly basis. Based on these reviews, the results of discussions and resolutions of matters with certain tax authorities, tax rulings, and court decisions and the expiration of statutes of limitations reserves for contingent tax liabilities are accrued or adjusted as necessary. An increase in our 2023 effective tax rate of 1.0% would have resulted in an additional income tax provision for the year ended December 31, 2023 of approximately $10 million. NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS For a discussion of new accounting standards relevant to our businesses, refer to Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.