********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY AND INDUSTRY If we are unable to develop new and enhanced solutions, or if we are unable to continually improve the performance, features, and reliability of our existing solutions, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Our future success depends on our ability to effectively respond to evolving threats to consumers, as well as competitive technological developments and industry changes, by developing or introducing new and enhanced solutions on a timely basis. In the past, we have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant research and development expenses as we focus on organic growth through internal innovation. We believe that we must continue to dedicate significant resources to our research and development efforts to deliver innovative market competitive products and avoid being reliant on third-party technology and products. If we do not achieve the benefits anticipated from these investments, or if the achievement of these benefits is delayed, our operating results may be adversely affected. We must continually address the challenges of dynamic and accelerating market trends and competitive developments. Customers may require features and capabilities that our current solutions do not have. Our failure to develop new solutions and improve our existing solutions to satisfy customer preferences and effectively compete with other market offerings in a timely and cost-effective manner may harm our ability to retain our customers and attract new customers. The development and introduction of new solutions involve significant commitments of time and resources and are subject to risks and challenges including but not limited to: • Lengthy development cycles; • Evolving industry and regulatory standards and technological developments, including AI and machine learning, by our competitors and customers; • Rapidly changing customer preferences and accurately anticipating technological trends or needs; • Evolving platforms, operating systems, and hardware products, such as mobile devices; • Product and service interoperability challenges with customer’s technology and third-party vendors; • The integration of products and solutions from acquired companies; • Availability of engineering and technical talent; • Entering new or unproven market segments; and • Executing new product and service strategies. 11 In addition, third parties, including operating systems and internet browser companies, have in the past and may in the future limit the interoperability of our solutions with their own products and services, in some cases to promote their own offerings or those of our competitors. Any such actions by third parties could delay the development of our solutions or our solutions may be unable to operate effectively. This could also result in decreased demand for our solutions, decreased revenue, harm to our reputation, and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. If we are not successful in managing these risks and challenges, or if our new or improved solutions are not technologically competitive or do not achieve market acceptance, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. We operate in a highly competitive and dynamic environment, and if we are unable to compete effectively, we could experience a loss in market share and a reduction in revenue. We operate in intensely competitive and dynamic markets that experience frequent and rapid technological developments, changes in industry and regulatory standards, evolving market trends, changes in customer requirements and preferences, and frequent new product introductions and improvements. If we are unable to anticipate or react to these continually evolving conditions, we could experience a loss of market share and a reduction in our revenues, which could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results. To compete successfully, we must maintain an innovative research and development effort to develop new solutions and enhance our existing solutions, and effectively adapt to changes in the technology, privacy and data protection standards or trends. We face competition from a broad range of companies, including software vendors focusing on cyber safety solutions such as Bitdefender, Kaspersky, McAfee and Trend Micro, operating system providers such as Apple, Google and Microsoft, and companies such as Nord, Life360, LastPass and others that currently specialize in one or a few particular segments of the market and many of which are expanding their product portfolios into different segments. Many of these competitors offer solutions or are currently developing solutions that directly compete with some or all of our offerings. We also face growing competition from other technology companies, as well as from companies in the identity threat protection space such as credit bureaus. Further, many of our competitors are increasingly developing and incorporating into their products data protection software and other competing cyber safety products such as antivirus protection or VPN, often free of charge, that compete with our offerings. Our competitive position could be adversely affected by the functionality incorporated into these products rendering our existing solutions obsolete and therefore causing us to fail to meet customer expectations. In addition, the introduction of new products or services by competitors, and/or market acceptance of products or services based on emerging or alternative technologies, could make it easier for other products or services to compete with our solutions. We have seen and anticipate additional competition as new participants enter the cyber safety market and as our current competitors seek to increase their market share and expand their existing offerings. Some of our competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing, or other resources than we do, including in new cyber safety and digital life segments. Consequently, those competitors may influence customers to purchase their products instead of ours through investing more in internal innovation than we can and through their unique access to customer engagement points. Further consolidation among our competitors and within our industry or, in addition to other changes in the competitive environment, such as greater vertical integration from key computing and operating system suppliers could result in larger competitors that compete more frequently with us. In addition to competing with these vendors directly for sales to end-users of our solutions, we compete with them for the opportunity to have our solutions bundled with the offerings of our strategic partners, such as computer hardware OEMs, internet service providers, operating systems and telecom service providers. Our competitors could gain market share from us if any of these strategic partners replace our solutions with those of our competitors or with their own solutions. Similarly, they could gain market share from us if these partners promote our competitors’ solutions or their own solutions more frequently or more favorably than our solutions. In addition, software vendors who have bundled our solutions with theirs may choose to bundle their solutions with their own or other vendors’ solutions or may limit our access to standard interfaces and inhibit our ability to develop solutions for their platform. Further product development by these vendors could cause our solutions to become redundant, which could significantly impact our sales and operating results. We cannot be sure that we will accurately predict how the markets in which we compete or intend to compete will evolve. Failure on our part to anticipate changes in our markets and to develop solutions and enhancements that meet the demands of those markets or to effectively compete against our competitors will significantly impair our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. Issues in the development and deployment of AI may result in reputational harm and legal liability and could adversely affect our results of operations. We have incorporated, and are continuing to develop and deploy, AI into many of our products, solutions and services. AI presents challenges and risks that could affect our products, solutions and services, and therefore our business. For example, AI algorithms may have flaws, and datasets used to train models may be insufficient or contain biased information. These potential issues could subject us to regulatory risk, legal liability, including under new proposed legislation regulating AI in jurisdictions such as the EU and regulations being considered in other jurisdictions, and brand or reputational harm. The rapid evolution of AI, including potential government regulation of AI, requires us to invest significant resources to develop, test, and maintain AI in our products and services in a manner that meets evolving requirements and expectations. The rules and regulations adopted by policymakers over time may require us to make changes to our business practices. Developing, testing, and deploying AI systems may also increase the cost profile of our offerings due to the nature of the computing costs involved in such systems. 12 The intellectual property ownership and license rights surrounding AI technologies, as well as data protection laws related to the use and development of AI, are currently not fully addressed by courts or regulators. The use or adoption of AI technologies in our products may result in exposure to claims by third parties of copyright infringement or other intellectual property misappropriation, which may require us to pay compensation or license fees to third parties. The evolving legal, regulatory, and compliance framework for AI technologies may also impact our ability to protect our own data and intellectual property against infringing use. Our acquisitions and divestitures create special risks and challenges that could adversely affect our financial results. As part of our business strategy, we may acquire or divest businesses or assets. For example, in 2019, we completed the sale of certain of our enterprise security assets to Broadcom Inc. (the Broadcom sale), in January 2021, we completed the acquisition of Avira, and in September 2022, we completed the acquisition of Avast. Our acquisition and divestiture activities have and may continue to involve a number of risks and challenges, including: • Complexity, time and costs associated with managing these transactions, including the integration of acquired and the winding down of divested business operations, workforce, products, IT systems and technologies; • Challenges in retaining the customers of acquired businesses, providing the same level of service to existing customers with reduced resources, or retaining the third-party relationships, including with suppliers, service providers, and vendors, among others; • Diversion of management time and attention; • Loss or termination of employees, including costs and potential institutional knowledge loss associated with the termination or replacement of those employees; • Assumption of liabilities of the acquired and divested business or assets, including pending or future litigation, investigations or claims related to the acquired business or assets; • Addition of acquisition-related debt; • Difficulty entering into or expanding in new markets or geographies; • Increased or unexpected costs and working capital requirements; • Dilution of stock ownership of existing stockholders; • Ongoing contractual obligations and unanticipated delays or failure to meet contractual obligations; • Substantial accounting charges for acquisition-related costs, asset impairments, amortization of intangible assets and higher levels of stock-based compensation expense; and • Difficulty in realizing potential benefits, including cost savings and operational efficiencies, synergies and growth prospects from integrating acquired businesses. Macroeconomic factors, such as high inflation, high interest rates, and volatility in foreign currency exchange rates and capital markets could negatively influence our future acquisition opportunities. Moreover, to be successful, large complex acquisitions depend on large-scale product, technology, and sales force integrations that are difficult to complete on a timely basis or at all and may be more susceptible to the special risks and challenges described above. Any of the foregoing, and other factors, could harm our ability to achieve anticipated levels of profitability or other financial benefits from our acquired or divested businesses, product lines or assets or to realize other anticipated benefits of divestitures or acquisitions. Our revenue and operating results depend significantly on our ability to retain our existing customers and expand sales to them, convert existing non-paying customers to paying customers and add new customers. We generally sell our solutions to our customers on a monthly or annual subscription basis. It is important to our business that we retain existing customers and that our customers expand their use of our solutions over time. Customers may choose not to renew their membership with us at any time. Renewing customers may require additional incentives to renew, may not renew for the same contract period, or may change their subscriptions. We therefore may be unable to retain our existing customers on the same or more profitable terms, if at all. In addition, we may not be able to accurately predict or anticipate future trends in customer retention or effectively respond to such trends. Our customer retention rates may decline or fluctuate due to a variety of factors, including the following: • Our customers’ levels of satisfaction or dissatisfaction with our solutions and the value they place on our solutions; • The quality, breadth, and prices of our solutions, including solutions offered in emerging markets; • Our general reputation and events impacting that reputation; • The services and related pricing offered by our competitors; including increasing the availability and efficacy of free solutions; • Disruption by new services or changes in law or regulations that impact the need for or efficacy of our products and services; • Changes in auto-renewal and other consumer protection regulations; 13 • Our customers’ dissatisfaction with our efforts to market additional products and services; • Our customer service and responsiveness to the needs of our customers; • Changes in our target customers’ spending levels as a result of general economic conditions, inflationary pressures or other factors; and • The quality and efficacy of our third-party partners who assist us in renewing customers’ subscriptions. Declining customer retention rates could cause our revenue to grow more slowly than expected or decline, and our operating results, gross margins and business will be harmed. In addition, our ability to generate revenue and maintain or improve our results of operations partly depends on our ability to cross-sell our solutions to our existing customers and to convert existing non-paying customers to paying customers and add new customers. We may not be successful in cross-selling our solutions because our customers may find our additional solutions unnecessary or unattractive. Our failure to sell additional solutions to our existing customers, failure to convert existing non-paying customers to paying customers or add new customers could adversely affect our ability to grow our business. An important part of our growth strategy involves continued investment in direct marketing efforts, indirect partner distribution channels, freemium channels, our sales force, and infrastructure to add new customers. The number and rate at which new customers purchase our products and services depends on a number of factors, including those outside of our control, such as customers’ perceived need for our solutions, competition, general economic conditions, market transitions, product obsolescence, technological change, public awareness of security threats to IT systems, macroeconomic conditions, and other factors. New customers, if any, may subscribe or renew their subscriptions at lower rates than we have experienced in the past, introducing uncertainty about their economic attractiveness and potentially impacting our financial results. Additionally, there are inherent challenges in measuring the usage of our products and solutions across our brands, platforms, regions, and internal systems, and therefore, calculation methodologies for direct customer counts may differ, which may impact our ability to measure the addition of new customers. The methodologies used to measure these metrics require judgment and are also susceptible to algorithms or other technical errors. We continually seek to improve our estimates of our user base, and these estimates are subject to change due to improvements or revisions to our methodology. From time to time, we review our metrics and may discover inaccuracies or make adjustments to improve their accuracy, which can result in adjustments to our historical metrics. Our ability to recalculate our historical metrics may be impacted by data limitations or other factors that require us to apply different methodologies for such adjustments. We may need to change our pricing models to compete successfully. The intense competition we face, in addition to general and economic business conditions (including economic volatility, bank failures, and high inflation and interest rates, among other things), may put pressure on us to change our pricing practices. If our competitors offer deep discounts on certain solutions, provide offerings, or offer free introductory products that compete with ours, we may need to lower our prices or offer similar free introductory products to compete successfully. Similarly, if external factors, such as economic conditions, market trends, or business combinations require us to raise our prices, our ability to acquire new customers and retain existing customers may be diminished. Any such changes may reduce revenue and margins and could adversely affect our financial results. Additionally, changes in the macroeconomic environment have previously and may continue to affect our business. Our solutions are discretionary purchases, and customers may reduce or eliminate their discretionary spending on our solutions during a difficult macroeconomic environment. We may experience a material increase in cancellations by customers or a material reduction in our retention rate in the future, especially in the event of a prolonged recession or a worsening of current conditions as a result of inflation, changes in interest rates, or other macroeconomic events. We may have to lower our prices or make other changes to our pricing model to address these dynamics, any of which could adversely affect our business and financial results. Many of Avira’s and Avast’s users are freemium subscribers, meaning they do not pay for its basic services. Much of our anticipated growth in connection with the Avira and Avast acquisitions are attributable to attracting and converting Avira’s and Avast’s freemium users to a paid subscription option. Numerous factors, however, have previously and may continue to impede our ability to attract and retain free users, convert these users into paying customers and retain them as paying customers. If we fail to manage our sales and distribution channels effectively, or if our partners choose not to market and sell our solutions to their customers, our operating results could be adversely affected. A portion of our revenues is derived from sales through indirect channels, including, but not limited to, distributors that sell our products to end-users and other resellers, and partners that incorporate our products into, or bundle our products with, their products. These channels involve risks, including: • Our resellers, distributors and telecom service providers are generally not subject to minimum sales requirements or any obligation to market our solutions to their customers; • Our reseller and distributor agreements are generally nonexclusive and may be terminated at any time without cause and our partners may terminate or renegotiate their arrangements with us and new terms may be less favorable due to competitive conditions in our markets and other factors; • Our resellers, distributors and OEMs may encounter issues or have violations of applicable law or regulatory requirements or otherwise cause damage to our reputation through their actions; 14 • Our resellers and distributors frequently market and distribute competing solutions and may, from time to time, place greater emphasis on the sale of competing solutions due to pricing, promotions and other terms offered by our competitors; • Any consolidation of electronics retailers can increase their negotiating power with respect to software providers such as us and any decline in the number of physical retailers could decrease the channels of distribution for us; • The consolidation of online sales through a small number of larger channels has been increasing, which could reduce the channels available for online distribution of our solutions; and • Sales through our partners are subject to changes in general economic conditions, strategic direction, competitive risks, and other issues that could result in fewer sales, or cause our partners to suffer financial difficulty which could delay payments to us, affecting our operating results. If we fail to manage our sales and distribution channels successfully, these channels may conflict with one another or otherwise fail to perform as we anticipate, which could reduce our sales and increase our expenses as well as weaken our competitive position. Changes in industry structure and market conditions have and may continue to lead to charges related to discontinuance of certain of our products or businesses and asset impairments. In response to changes in industry structure and market conditions, we have been and may continue to be required to strategically reallocate our resources and consider restructuring, disposing of, or otherwise exiting certain businesses. Any decision to limit investment in or dispose of or otherwise exit businesses has and may continue to result in the recording of special charges, such as technology-related write-offs, workforce reduction costs, charges relating to consolidation of excess facilities, or claims from third parties who were resellers or users of discontinued products. Our estimates with respect to the useful life or ultimate recoverability of our carrying basis of assets, including purchased intangible assets, could change as a result of such assessments and decisions. Our loss contingencies have and may continue to include liabilities for contracts that we cannot cancel, reschedule or adjust with suppliers. Further, our estimates relating to the liabilities for excess facilities are affected by changes in real estate market conditions. Additionally, we are required to evaluate goodwill impairment on an annual basis and between annual evaluations in certain circumstances. Goodwill impairment evaluations have previously and may result in a charge to earnings. RISKS RELATED TO OUR OPERATIONS Our international operations involve risks that could increase our expenses, adversely affect our operating results and require increased time and attention of our management. Following the acquisition of Avast, we derive a significant portion of our revenues from customers located outside of the United States, and we have substantial operations outside of the United States, including engineering, finance, sales and customer support. Our international operations are subject to risks in addition to those faced by our domestic operations, including: • Difficulties staffing, managing, and coordinating the activities of our geographically dispersed and culturally diverse operations; • Potential loss of proprietary information due to misappropriation or laws that may be less protective of our intellectual property rights than U.S. laws or that may not be adequately enforced; • Requirements of foreign laws and other governmental controls, including tariffs, trade barriers and labor restrictions, and related laws that reduce the flexibility of our business operations; • Fluctuations in currency exchange rates, economic instability and inflationary conditions could make our solutions more expensive or could increase our costs of doing business in certain countries; • Potential changes in trade relations arising from policy initiatives or other political factors; • Regulations or restrictions on the use, import or export of encryption technologies that could delay or prevent the acceptance and use of encryption products and public networks for secure communications; • Local business and cultural factors that differ from our normal standards and practices, including business practices that we are prohibited from engaging in by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-corruption laws and regulations; • Central bank and other restrictions on our ability to repatriate cash from our international subsidiaries or to exchange cash in international subsidiaries into cash available for use in the United States; • Limitations on future growth or inability to maintain current levels of revenues from international sales if we do not invest sufficiently in our international operations; • Difficulties in staffing, managing and operating our international operations; • Costs and delays associated with developing software and providing support in multiple languages; • Political, social or economic unrest, war, terrorism, regional natural disasters, or export controls and trade restrictions, particularly in areas in which we have facilities; and 15 • Multiple and possibly overlapping tax regimes. The expansion of our existing international operations and entry into additional international markets has required and will continue to require significant management attention and financial resources. These increased costs may increase our cost of acquiring international customers, which may delay our ability to achieve profitability or reduce our profitability in the future. We also have and may continue to face pressure to lower our prices in order to compete in emerging markets, which has previously and could in the future adversely affect revenue derived from our international operations. It is not possible to predict the broader consequences of geopolitical conflicts, such as the Russia-Ukraine conflict, and the numerous conflicts in the Middle East, and other conflicts that may arise in the future, which could include geopolitical instability and uncertainty; adverse impacts on global and regional economic conditions and financial markets, including significant volatility in credit, capital, and currency markets; reduced economic activity; changes in laws and regulations affecting our business, including further sanctions or counter-sanctions which may be enacted; and increased cybersecurity threats and concerns. The ultimate extent to which such conflicts may negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain, difficult to predict and subject to change. Our future success depends on our ability to attract and retain personnel in a competitive marketplace. Our future success depends upon our ability to recruit and retain key management, technical (including cyber security and AI experts), sales, marketing, e-commerce, finance and other personnel. Our officers and other key personnel are “at will” employees and we generally do not have employment or non-compete agreements with our employees. Competition is significant for people with the specific skills that we require, including in the areas of AI and machine learning, and especially in the locations where we have a substantial presence and need for such personnel. In order to attract and retain personnel in a competitive marketplace, we must provide competitive pay packages, including cash and equity-based compensation. Additionally, changes in immigration laws could impair our ability to attract and retain highly qualified employees. If we fail to attract, retain and motivate new or existing personnel, our business, results of operations and future growth prospects could suffer. Volatility in our stock price may from time to time adversely affect our ability to recruit or retain employees. In addition, we may not have an adequate number of shares reserved under our equity compensation plans, forcing us to reduce awards of equity-based compensation, which could impair our efforts to attract, retain and motivate necessary personnel. If we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees, or conversely, if we fail to manage employee performance or reduce staffing levels when required by market conditions, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. Effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. Failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. From time to time, key personnel leave our company and the frequency and number of such departures have widely varied and have, in the past, resulted in significant changes to our executive leadership team. The loss of any key employee could result in significant disruptions to our operations, including adversely affecting the timeliness of product releases, the successful implementation and completion of company initiatives, our internal control over financial reporting and our results of operations. In addition, hiring, training and successfully integrating replacement personnel can be time consuming and expensive, may cause additional disruptions to our operations and may be unsuccessful, which could negatively impact future financial results. Our solutions, systems, websites and the data on these sources have been in the past and may continue to be subject to cybersecurity events that could materially harm our reputation and future sales. We expect to continue to be a target of attacks specifically designed to impede the performance and availability of our offerings and harm our reputation as a leading cyber security company. In addition, we face the risk of cyberattacks by nation-states and state-sponsored actors, which may increase or heighten due to geopolitical tensions. These attacks may target us, our partners, suppliers, vendors or customers. Similarly, experienced computer programmers or other sophisticated individuals or entities, including malicious hackers, state-sponsored organizations, and insider threats including actions by employees and third-party service providers, have attempted to penetrate, and in some cases have penetrated, our network security or the security of our vendors or suppliers. Such attempts are increasing in number and in technical sophistication, including through the use of AI, and have in the past and could in the future expose us and the affected parties, to risk of loss or misuse of proprietary, personal or confidential information or disruptions of our business operations. In addition, our internal IT environment continues to evolve. We embrace new ways of sharing data and communicating internally and with partners and customers using methods such as social networking and other consumer-oriented technologies. We also remain vigilant with the increasing use of generative AI models in our internal systems which may create new attack methods for adversaries. Our business policies and internal security controls may not keep pace with these changes as new threats emerge, or emerging cybersecurity regulations in jurisdictions worldwide. When a data breach occurs, our information technology systems and infrastructure can be subject to damage, compromise, disruption, and shutdown due to attacks or breaches by hackers or other circumstances, such as error or malfeasance by employees or third-party service providers, phishing, social engineering, account takeovers, vulnerability exploitation, misconfigurations, ransomware, or technology malfunction. A data breach may result in significant legal, financial, and reputational harm, including government inquiries, enforcement actions, litigation, and negative publicity. A series of breaches may be determined to be material at a later date in the aggregate, even if they may not be material individually at the time of their occurrence. The occurrence of any of these events, as well as a failure to promptly remedy them when they occur, could compromise our systems and the information stored in our systems. Any such circumstance could adversely affect our ability to attract and maintain customers as well as strategic partners, cause us to suffer negative publicity or damage to our brand, and 16 subject us to legal claims and liabilities or regulatory penalties. In addition, unauthorized parties might alter information in our databases, which would adversely affect both the reliability of that information and our ability to market and perform our services as well as undermine our ability to remain compliant with relevant laws and regulations. Techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently, are constantly evolving and generally are difficult to recognize and react to effectively. We are not always able to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate or timely preventive or reactive measures. Several recent, highly publicized data security breaches, such as the large-scale attacks by foreign nation state actors, the global incident involving the MOVEit file transfer software, and a significant uptick in ransomware/extortion attacks at other companies, have heightened consumer awareness of this issue and may embolden individuals or groups to target our systems or those of our strategic partners or enterprise customers. Threat actors have previously and could in the future exploit a new vulnerability before we complete our remediation work or identify a vulnerability that we did not effectively remediate. If that happens, there could be unauthorized access to, or acquisition of, data we maintain, and damage to our systems. We could also face legal action from individuals, business partners, and regulators in connection with data breaches, which would result in increased costs and fees incurred in our defense against those proceedings, and/or payment of any regulatory penalties. We collect, use, disclose, store or otherwise process personal information, which subjects us to privacy and data security laws and contractual commitments. We collect, use, process, store, transmit or disclose (collectively, process) an increasingly large amount of confidential information, including personal information (which includes credit card information and other critical data from employees and customers), in connection with the operation of our business, particularly in relation to our identity and information protection service offerings. The confidential and personal information we process is subject to an increasing number of federal, state, local and foreign laws regarding privacy and data security, as well as contractual commitments. Any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with such obligations has previously and may in the future result in governmental enforcement actions, fines, litigation or public statements against us by consumer advocacy groups or others and could cause our customers to lose trust in us, which could have an adverse effect on our reputation and business. Additionally, changes to applicable privacy or data security laws could impact how we process personal information and therefore limit the effectiveness of our solutions or our ability to develop new solutions. For example, the European Union General Data Protection Regulation imposes more stringent data protection requirements and provides for greater penalties for noncompliance of up to the greater of €20 million or four percent of our worldwide annual revenues. Data protection legislation is also increasing in the U.S. at both the federal and state level. For example, the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018 (the CCPA) requires, among other things, covered companies to provide disclosures to California consumers regarding the use of personal information, gives California residents expanded rights to access their personal information that has been collected and allows such consumers new abilities to opt-out of certain sales of personal information. Further, the California Privacy Rights Act (the CPRA) significantly modifies the CCPA and there are new similar and overlapping state privacy laws in at least 10 other U.S. states, which all go into effect by January 1, 2026. These new laws may result in additional uncertainty and require us to incur additional costs and expenses in our effort to comply. Additionally, the Federal Trade Commission (the FTC) and many state attorneys general are interpreting federal and state consumer protection laws to impose standards for the online collection, use, dissemination, and security of data. The burdens imposed by the new state privacy laws and other similar laws that may be enacted at the federal and state level may require us to modify our data processing practices and policies, adapt our goods and services and incur substantial expenditures in order to comply. Global privacy and data protection legislation and enforcement are rapidly expanding and evolving, and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. We may be or become subject to data localization laws mandating that data collected in a foreign country be processed and stored only or primarily within that country. If any country in which we have customers were to adopt a data localization law, we could be required to expand our data storage facilities there or build new ones in order to comply. The expenditure this would require, as well as costs of compliance generally, could harm our financial condition. Additionally, third parties with whom we work, such as vendors or developers, may violate applicable laws or our policies and such violations can place the personal information of our customers at risk. In addition, our customers may also accidentally disclose their passwords or store them on a device that is lost or stolen, creating the perception that our systems are not secure against third-party access. This could have an adverse effect on our reputation and business. In addition, such third parties could expose us to compromised data or technology, or be the target of cyberattack and other data breaches which could impact our systems or our customers’ records and personal information. Further, we could be the target of a cyberattack or other action that impacts our systems and results in a data breach of our customers’ records and personal information. This could have an adverse effect on our reputation and business and potentially result in litigation and/or regulatory penalties. Our inability to successfully recover from a disaster or other business continuity event could impair our ability to deliver our products and services and harm our business. We are heavily reliant on our technology and infrastructure to provide our products and services to our customers. For example, we host many of our products using third-party data center facilities and we do not control the operation of these facilities. These facilities are vulnerable to damage, interference, interruption or performance problems from earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, pandemics and similar events. They are also subject to break-ins, computer viruses, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and other misconduct. The occurrence of a natural disaster, an act of terrorism state-sponsored attacks, a pandemic, geopolitical tensions or armed conflicts, and similar events could result in a 17 decision to close the facilities without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems, which in turn, could result in lengthy interruptions in the delivery of our products and services, which could negatively impact our sales and operating results. Furthermore, our business administration, human resources, compliance efforts and finance services depend on the proper functioning of our computer, telecommunication and other related systems and operations. A disruption or failure of these systems or operations because of a disaster, cyberattack or other business continuity event, such as a pandemic, could cause data to be lost or otherwise delay our ability to complete sales and provide the highest level of service to our customers. In addition, we could have difficulty producing accurate financial statements on a timely basis, and deficiencies may arise in our internal control over financial reporting, which may impact our ability to certify our financial results, all of which could adversely affect the trading value of our stock. There are no assurances that data recovery in the event of a disaster would be effective or occur in an efficient manner. If these systems or their functionality do not operate as we expect them to, we may be required to expend significant resources to make corrections or find alternative sources for performing these functions. We are dependent upon Broadcom for certain engineering and threat response services, which are critical to many of our products and business. Our Norton branded endpoint security solution has historically relied upon certain threat analytics software engines and other software (the Engine-Related Services) that have been developed and provided by engineering teams that have transferred to Broadcom as part of the Broadcom sale. The technology, including source code, at issue is shared, and pursuant to the terms of the Broadcom sale, we retain rights to use, modify, enhance and create derivative works from such technology. Broadcom has committed to provide these Engine-Related Services substantially to the same extent and in substantially the same manner, as has been historically provided under a license agreement with a limited term. As a result, we are dependent on Broadcom for services and technology that are critical to our business, and if Broadcom fails to deliver these Engine-Related Services it would result in significant business disruption, and our business and operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Furthermore, if our current sources become unavailable, and if we are unable to develop or obtain alternatives to integrate or deploy them in time, our ability to compete effectively could be impacted and have a material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, in connection with the Broadcom sale, we lost other capabilities, including certain threat intelligence data which were historically provided by our former Enterprise Security business, the lack of which could have a negative impact on our business and products. If we fail to offer high-quality customer support, our customer satisfaction may suffer and have a negative impact on our business and reputation. Many of our customers rely on our customer support services to resolve issues, including technical support, billing and subscription issues, that may arise. If demand increases, or our resources decrease, we may be unable to offer the level of support our customers expect. Any failure by us to maintain the expected level of support could reduce customer satisfaction and negatively impact our customer retention and our business. Our solutions are complex and operate in a wide variety of environments, systems and configurations, which could result in failures of our solutions to function as designed. Because we offer very complex solutions, errors, defects, disruptions, or other performance problems with our solutions may occur and have occurred. For example, we may experience disruptions, outages and other performance problems due to a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes, human or software errors, fraud, security attacks or capacity constraints due to an overwhelming number of users accessing our websites simultaneously. In some instances, we may not be able to identify the cause or causes of these performance problems within an acceptable period of time. Interruptions in our solutions could impact our revenues or cause customers to cease doing business with us. Our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our technology infrastructure against damage from business continuity events that could have a significant disruptive effect on our operations. We could potentially lose customer data or personal information, or experience material adverse interruptions to our operations or delivery of solutions to our clients in a disaster recovery scenario. Negative publicity regarding our brand, solutions and business could harm our competitive position. Our brand recognition and reputation as a trusted service provider are critical aspects of our business and key to retaining existing customers and attracting new customers. Our business could be harmed due to errors, defects, disruptions or other performance problems with our solutions causing our customers and potential customers to believe our solutions are unreliable. Furthermore, negative publicity, whether or not justified, including intentional brand misappropriation, relating to events or activities attributed to us, our employees, our strategic partners, our affiliates, or others associated with any of these parties, may tarnish our reputation and reduce the value of our brands. In addition, the rapid rise and use of social media has the potential to harm our brand and reputation. We may be unable to timely respond to and resolve negative and inaccurate social media posts regarding our company, solutions and business in an appropriate manner. Damage to our reputation and loss of brand equity may reduce demand for our solutions and have an adverse effect on our business, operating results and financial condition. Moreover, any attempts to rebuild our reputation and restore the value of our brands may be costly and time consuming, and such efforts may not ultimately be successful. Our reputation and/or business could be negatively impacted by ESG matters and/or our reporting of such matters. The focus from regulators, customers, certain investors, employees, and other stakeholders concerning environmental, social and governance (ESG) matters and related disclosures, both in the United States and internationally, has resulted in, and is likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and increased management time and attention spent complying with or meeting ESG-related requirements and expectations. For example, developing and acting on ESG-related 18 initiatives and collecting, measuring and reporting ESG-related information and metrics can be costly, difficult and time consuming and is subject to evolving reporting standards, including the SEC’s climate-related reporting requirements and the recent California legislation, which includes disclosure requirements relating to voluntary carbon offsets and a wide range of environmental marketing claims. Similarly, the Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive will require large EU companies to make detailed disclosures in relation to certain sustainability-related issues. We communicate certain ESG-related initiatives, goals, and/or commitments regarding environmental matters, diversity, responsible sourcing and social investments and other matters on our website, in our filings with the SEC and elsewhere. These initiatives, goals or commitments could be difficult to achieve and costly to implement, the technologies needed to implement them may not be cost effective and may not advance at a sufficient pace, and we could be criticized for the accuracy, adequacy or completeness of the disclosure. Further, statements about our ESG-related initiatives, goals or commitments and progress with respect to such initiatives, goals or commitments may be based on standards for measuring progress that are still developing, internal controls and processes that continue to evolve, and assumptions that are subject to change in the future. In addition, we could be criticized for the timing, scope or nature of these initiatives, goals or commitments, or for any revisions to them. If we fail to achieve progress with respect to our ESG-related initiatives, goals or commitments on a timely basis, or at all, or if our ESG-related data, processes and reporting are incomplete or inaccurate, our reputation, business, financial performance and growth could be adversely affected. We are affected by seasonality, which may impact our revenue and results of operations. Portions of our business are impacted by seasonality. Seasonal behavior in orders has historically occurred in the third and fourth quarters of our fiscal year, which include the important selling periods during the holidays in our third quarter, as well as follow-on holiday purchases and the U.S. tax filing season, which is typically in our fourth quarter. Revenue generally reflects similar seasonal patterns, but to a lesser extent than orders. This is due to our subscription business model, as a large portion of our in-period revenue is recognized ratably from our deferred revenue balance. An unexpected decrease in sales over those traditionally high-volume selling periods may impact our revenue and could have a disproportionate effect on our results of operations for the entire fiscal year. LEGAL AND COMPLIANCE RISKS Our solutions are highly regulated, which could impede our ability to market and provide our solutions or adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. Our solutions are subject to a high degree of regulation, including a wide variety of international and U.S. federal, state, and local laws and regulations, such as the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, the Federal Trade Commission Act (the FTC Act), and comparable state laws that are patterned after the FTC Act. We have previously entered into consent decrees and similar arrangements with the FTC and the attorney generals of 35 states as well as a settlement with the FTC relating to allegations that certain of LifeLock’s advertising, marketing and security practices constituted deceptive acts or practices in violation of the FTC Act, which impose additional restrictions on our business, including prohibitions against making any misrepresentation of “the means, methods, procedures, effects, effectiveness, coverage, or scope of” our solutions. We signed an Undertaking, effective June 14, 2021, with the United Kingdom’s Competition and Markets Authority (CMA) requiring our NortonLifeLock Ireland Limited and NortonLifeLock UK entities to make certain changes to their policies and practices related to automatically renewing subscriptions in the United Kingdom as part of the CMA’s investigation into auto-renewal practices in the antivirus sector launched in December 2018. Any of the laws and regulations that apply to our business are subject to revision or new or changed interpretations, and we cannot predict the impact of such changes on our business. Additionally, the nature of our identity and information protection products subjects us to the broad regulatory, supervisory and enforcement powers of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau which may exercise authority with respect to our services, or the marketing and servicing of those services, through the oversight of our financial institution or credit reporting agency customers and suppliers, or by otherwise exercising its supervisory, regulatory or enforcement authority over consumer financial products and services. If we do not protect our proprietary information and prevent third parties from making unauthorized use of our products and technology, our financial results could be harmed. Much of our software and underlying technology is proprietary. We seek to protect our proprietary rights through a combination of confidentiality agreements and procedures and through copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret laws. However, these measures afford only limited protection and may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by third parties. Third parties may copy all or portions of our products or otherwise obtain, use, distribute and sell our proprietary information without authorization. Patents may also not be issued from our pending patent applications and claims allowed on any future issued patents may not be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. Also, these protections may not preclude competitors from independently developing products with functionality or features similar to our products. Third parties have previously and may in the future also develop similar or superior technology independently by designing around our patents. Our consumer agreements do not require a signature and therefore may be unenforceable under the laws of some jurisdictions. Furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries do not offer the same level of protection of our proprietary rights as the laws of the United States, and we may be subject to the unauthorized use of our products in those countries. The unauthorized copying or use of our products or proprietary information could result in reduced sales of our products. Any legal action to protect proprietary information that we may bring or be engaged in with a strategic partner or vendor could adversely affect our ability to access software, operating system and hardware platforms of such partner or vendor, or cause such partner or vendor to choose not to offer our products to their customers. In addition, any legal action to protect proprietary information 19 that we may bring or be engaged in, could be costly, may distract management from day-to-day operations and may lead to additional claims against us, which could adversely affect our operating results. From time to time we are party to lawsuits and investigations, and third parties have claimed and additional third parties in the future may claim that we infringe their proprietary rights, which has previously and could in the future require significant management time and attention, cause us to incur significant legal expenses and prevent us from selling our products. We are frequently involved in litigation and other proceedings, including, but not limited to, class actions and governmental claims or investigations, some of which may be material initially or become material over time. The expense of initiating and defending, and in some cases settling, such matters may be costly and divert management’s attention from the day-to-day operations of our business, which could have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, such matters may through the course of litigation or other proceedings change unfavorably which could alter the profile of the matter and create potential material risk to the company. Any unfavorable outcome in a matter could result in significant fines, settlements, monetary damages, or injunctive relief that could negatively and materially impact our ability to conduct our business, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, in the event we did not previously accrue for such litigation or proceeding in our financial statements, we may be required to record retrospective accruals that adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, third parties have claimed and, from time to time, additional third parties may claim that we have infringed their intellectual property rights, including claims regarding patents, copyrights and trademarks. For additional information on such claims, please refer to Note 18 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Because of constant technological change in the segments in which we compete, the extensive patent coverage of existing technologies, and the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, it is possible that the number of these claims may grow. In addition, former employers of our former, current or future employees may assert claims that such employees have improperly disclosed to us confidential or proprietary information of these former employers. Any such claim, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation and distract management from day-to-day operations. If we are not successful in defending such claims, we could be required to stop selling, delay shipments of, or redesign our solutions, pay monetary amounts as damages, enter into royalty or licensing arrangements, or satisfy indemnification obligations that we have with some of our partners. We cannot assure you that any royalty or licensing arrangements that we may seek in such circumstances will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. We have made and expect to continue making significant expenditures to investigate, defend and settle claims related to the use of technology and intellectual property rights as part of our strategy to manage this risk. In addition, we license and use software from third parties in our business and generally must rely on those third parties to protect the licensed rights. These third-party software licenses may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms or at all and may expose us to additional liability. This liability, or our inability to use any of this third-party software, could result in delivery delays or other disruptions in our business that could materially and adversely affect our operating results. Some of our products contain “open source” software, and any failure to comply with the terms of one or more of these open source licenses could negatively affect our business. Certain of our products are distributed with software licensed by its authors or other third parties under so-called “open source” licenses. Some of these licenses contain requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon the open source software and that we license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of a particular open source license or other license granting third parties certain rights of further use. By the terms of certain open source licenses, we could be required to release the source code of our proprietary software if we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner. Some open source software may include generative artificial intelligence (AI) software or other software that incorporates or relies on generative AI. The use of such software may expose us to risks as the intellectual property ownership and license rights, including copyright, of generative AI software and tools, has not been fully interpreted by U.S. courts or been fully addressed by federal, state, or international regulations. In addition to risks related to license requirements, using open source software, including open source software that incorporates or relies on generative AI, can lead to greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on origin of the software. We have established processes to help alleviate these risks, including a review process for screening requests from our development organizations for the use of open source. However, we cannot be sure that all open source, including open source that incorporates or relies on generative AI, is submitted for approval prior to use in our products. In addition, many of the risks associated with usage of open source, including open source that incorporates or relies on generative AI, may not or cannot be eliminated and could, if not properly addressed, negatively affect our business. RISKS RELATED TO OUR LIQUIDITY AND INDEBTEDNESS There are risks associated with our outstanding and future indebtedness that could adversely affect our financial condition. As of March 29, 2024, we had an aggregate of $8,716 million of outstanding indebtedness that will mature in calendar years 2025 through 2030, and $1,500 million available for borrowing under our revolving credit facility. See Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information on our outstanding debt. Our ability to meet expenses, comply with the covenants under our debt instruments, pay interest and repay principal for our substantial level of indebtedness depends on, among other things, our operating performance, competitive developments, and 20 financial market conditions, all of which are significantly affected by financial, business, economic and other factors. We are not able to control many of these factors. Accordingly, our cash flow may not be sufficient to allow us to pay principal and interest on our debt, including our 5.0% Senior Notes due 2025, 6.75% Senior Notes due 2027 and 7.125% Senior Notes due 2030 (collectively, the Senior Notes), and meet our other obligations. Our level of indebtedness could have other important consequences, including the following : • We must use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest and principal on the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, our existing Senior Notes, and other indebtedness, which reduces funds available to us for other purposes such as working capital, capital expenditures, other general corporate purposes and potential acquisitions; • We may be unable to refinance our indebtedness or to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes; • We have significant exposure to fluctuations in interest rates because borrowings under our senior secured credit facilities bear interest at variable rates; • Our leverage may be greater than that of some of our competitors, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage and reduce our flexibility in responding to current and changing industry and financial market conditions; • We may be more vulnerable to an economic downturn or recession and adverse developments in our business; • We may be unable to comply with financial and other covenants in our debt agreements, which could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, may result in acceleration of certain of our debt and would have an adverse effect on our business and prospects and could force us into bankruptcy or liquidation; and • Changes by any rating agency to our outlook or credit rating could negatively affect the value of our debt and/or our common stock, adversely affect our access to debt markets and increase the interest we pay on outstanding or future debt. There can be no assurance that we will be able to manage any of these risks successfully. In addition, we conduct a significant portion of our operations through our subsidiaries. Accordingly, repayment of our indebtedness will be dependent in part on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their respective abilities to make such cash available to us by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise, which may not always be possible. If we do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to make the required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness. Our Amended and Restated Credit Agreement imposes operating and financial restrictions on us. Our Amended and Restated Credit Agreement contains covenants that limit our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to: • Incur additional debt; • Create liens on certain assets to secure debt; • Enter into certain sale and leaseback transactions; • Pay dividends on or make other distributions in respect of our capital stock or make other restricted payments; and • Consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets. These covenants may adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, meet or otherwise address our capital needs, pursue business opportunities, react to market conditions or may otherwise restrict activities or business plans. A breach of any of these covenants could result in a default. If a default occurs, the relevant lenders could declare the indebtedness, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable and, to the extent such indebtedness is secured, proceed against any collateral securing that indebtedness. The failure of financial institutions or transactional counterparties could adversely affect our current and projected business operations and our financial condition and result of operations. We regularly maintain cash balances with other financial institutions in excess of the FDIC insurance limit. A failure of a depository institution to return deposits could result in a loss or impact access to our invested cash or cash equivalents and could adversely impact our operating liquidity and financial performance. Additionally, future adverse developments with respect to specific financial institutions or the broader financial services industry may lead to market-wide liquidity shortages, impair the ability of companies to access near-term working capital needs, and create additional market and economic uncertainty. Our general business strategy, including our ability to access existing debt under the terms of our Amended and Restated Credit Agreement may be adversely affected by any such economic downturn, liquidity shortages, volatile business environment or continued unpredictable and unstable market conditions. If the current equity and credit markets deteriorate, or if adverse developments are experienced by financial institutions, it may cause short-term liquidity risk and also make any necessary debt or equity financing more difficult, more costly, more onerous with respect to financial and operating covenants and more dilutive. Failure to secure any necessary financing in a timely manner and on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our operations, growth strategy, financial performance and stock price and could require us to alter our operating plans. Hedging or other mitigation actions to mitigate against interest rate exposure may adversely affect our earnings, limit our gains or result in losses, which could adversely affect cash available for distributions. 21 We have previously and may in the future enter into interest rate swap agreements or pursue other interest rate hedging strategies. In March 2023, we entered into interest rate swap agreements to mitigate risks associated with the variable interest rate of our Term A Facility. These pay-fixed, receive-floating rate interest rate swaps have the economic effect of hedging the variability of forecasted interest payments until their maturity on March 31, 2026. Pursuant to the agreements, we have effectively converted $1 billion of our variable rate borrowings under Term A Facility to fixed rates, with $500 million at a fixed rate of 3.762% and $500 million at a fixed rate of 3.550%. The objective of our interest rate swaps, all of which are designated as cash flow hedges, is to manage the variability of future cash interest expense. Our future hedging activity will vary in scope based on the level of interest rates, the type and expected duration of portfolio investments held, and other changing market conditions. Our current and future interest rate hedging may fail to protect or could adversely affect us because, among other things: • Interest rate hedging can be expensive, particularly during periods of rising and volatile interest rates; • Available interest rate hedging may not correspond directly with the interest rate risk for which protection is sought; • The duration of the hedge may not match the duration of the related liability or asset; • The credit quality of the party owing money on the hedge may be downgraded to such an extent that it impairs our ability to sell or assign our side of the hedging transaction; • The party owing money in the hedging transaction may default on its obligation to pay; and • We may purchase a hedge that turns out not to be necessary (i.e., a hedge that is out of the money). Any hedging activity we engage in may adversely affect our earnings, which could adversely affect cash available for distributions. Unanticipated changes in interest rates may result in poorer overall investment performance than if we had not engaged in any such hedging transactions. In addition, the degree of correlation between price movements of the instruments used in a hedging strategy and price movements in the portfolio positions being hedged or liabilities being hedged may vary materially. Moreover, for a variety of reasons, we may not seek to establish a perfect correlation between such hedging instruments and the portfolio holdings being hedged. Any such imperfect correlation may prevent us from achieving the intended hedge and expose us to risk of loss. GENERAL RISKS Government efforts to combat inflation, along with other interest rate pressures arising from an inflationary economic environment, have led to and may continue to lead to higher financing costs. We operate globally and as a result our business and revenues are impacted by global macroeconomic conditions. Inflation has risen on a global basis, including in the United States, and government entities have taken various actions to combat inflation, such as raising interest rate benchmarks. While the Federal Reserve has recently held inflation rates steady, global inflation remains high and government entities may continue their efforts, or implement additional efforts, to combat inflation, which may include continuing to raise interest rate benchmarks or maintaining interest rate benchmarks at elevated levels. Such government efforts, along with other interest rate pressures arising from an inflationary economic environment, have led to higher financing costs. For example, recent elevated interest rates have resulted in an increase in our cost of debt. These government actions and global macroeconomic conditions have had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Fluctuations in our quarterly financial results have affected the trading price of our stock in the past and could affect the trading price of our stock in the future. Our quarterly financial results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to vary in the future due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. If our quarterly financial results or our predictions of future financial results fail to meet our expectations or the expectations of securities analysts and investors, the trading price of our outstanding securities could be negatively affected. Volatility in our quarterly financial results may make it more difficult for us to raise capital in the future or pursue acquisitions. Factors associated with our industry, the operation of our business, and the markets for our solutions may cause our quarterly financial results to fluctuate, including but not limited to: • Fluctuations in demand for our solutions; • Disruptions in our business operations or target markets caused by, among other things, terrorism or other intentional acts, outbreaks of disease, or earthquakes, floods or other natural disasters; • Entry of new competition into our markets; • Technological changes in our markets; • Our ability to achieve targeted operating income and margins and revenues; • Competitive pricing pressure or free offerings that compete with one or more of our solutions; • Our ability to timely complete the release of new or enhanced versions of our solutions; • The amount and timing of commencement and termination of major marketing campaigns; 22 • The number, severity and timing of threat outbreaks and cyber security incidents; • Loss of customers or strategic partners or the inability to acquire new customers or cross-sell our solutions; • Changes in the mix or type of solutions and subscriptions sold and changes in consumer retention rates; • The rate of adoption of new technologies and new releases of operating systems, and new business processes; • Consumer confidence and spending changes; • The outcome or impact of litigation, claims, disputes, regulatory inquiries or investigations; • The impact of acquisitions (and our ability to achieve expected synergies or attendant cost savings), divestitures, restructurings, share repurchase, financings, debt repayments, equity investments and other investment activities; • Changes in U.S. and worldwide economic conditions, such as economic recessions, the impact of inflation, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates including the weakening of foreign currencies relative to USD, which has and may in the future negatively affect our revenue expressed in USD, changes in interest rates, geopolitical conflicts, and other global macroeconomic factors on our operations and financial performance; • The publication of unfavorable or inaccurate research reports about our business by cybersecurity industry analysts; • The success of our ESG initiatives; • Changes in tax laws, rules and regulations; • Changes in tax rates, benefits and expenses; and • Changes in consumer protection laws and regulations. Any of the foregoing factors could cause the trading price of our outstanding securities to fluctuate significantly. RISK RELATED TO TAXES Changes to our effective tax rate, including through the adoption of new tax legislation or exposure to additional income tax liabilities, could increase our income tax expense and reduce (increase) our net income (loss), cash flows and working capital. In addition, audits by tax authorities could result in additional tax payments for prior periods. We are a multinational company dual headquartered in the U.S. and the Czech Republic, with our principal executive offices in Tempe, Arizona. As such, we are subject to tax in multiple U.S. and international tax jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by several factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: • Changes to the U.S. federal income tax laws, including the potential for federal tax law changes put forward by Congress and the current administration including potentially increased corporate tax rates, new minimum taxes and other changes to the way that our US tax liability has been calculated following the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act. Certain of these proposals could have significant retroactive adjustments adding cash tax payments/liabilities if adopted; • Changes to other tax laws, regulations, and interpretations in multiple jurisdictions in which we operate, including actions resulting from the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development's (OECD) base erosion and profit shifting project including recent proposals for a global minimum tax rate, proposed actions by international bodies such as digital services taxation, as well as the requirements of certain tax rulings. In October 2021, the OECD/G20 inclusive framework on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (the Inclusive Framework) published a statement updating and finalizing the key components of a two-pillar plan on global tax reform which has now been agreed upon by the majority of OECD members. OECD and many countries have proposed to reallocate a portion of profits of large multinational enterprises (MNE) with an annual global turnover exceeding €20 billion to markets where sales arise (Pillar One), as well as enact a global minimum tax rate of 15% for MNE with an annual global turnover exceeding €750 million (Pillar Two ) . On December 12, 2022, the European Union reached an agreement to implement the Pillar Two Directive of the OECD’s reform of international taxation at the European Union level. The agreement affirms that all Member States must transpose the Directive by December 31, 2023. The rules will therefore first be applicable for fiscal years starting on or after December 31, 2023. Ireland, Czech Republic and certain jurisdictions in which we operate have enacted legislation to implement Pillar Two and other countries are actively considering changes to their tax laws to adopt certain parts of the OECD’s proposals. The enactment of Pillar Two legislation is not expected to have a material adverse effect on our effective tax rate and Consolidated Financial Statements in the near term. We will continue to monitor and reflect the impact of such legislative changes in future financial statements as appropriate; • Changes in the relative proportions of revenues and income before taxes in the various jurisdictions in which we operate that have differing statutory tax rates; • Changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities and the discovery of new information in the course of our tax return preparation process; • The ultimate determination of our taxes owed in any of these jurisdictions is for an amount in excess of the tax provision we have recorded or reserved for; • The tax effects of, and tax planning and changes in tax rates related to significant infrequently occurring events (including acquisitions, divestitures and restructurings) that may cause fluctuations between reporting periods; • Tax assessments, or any related tax interest or penalties, that could significantly affect our income tax expense for the period in which the settlements take place; and 23 • Taxes arising in connection to changes in our workforce, corporate and legal entity structure or operations as they relate to tax incentives and tax rates. From time to time, we receive notices that a tax authority in a particular jurisdiction believes that we owe a greater amount of tax than we have reported to such authority and we are consequently subject to tax audits. These audits can involve complex issues, which may require an extended period of time to resolve and can be highly judgmental. Additionally, our ability to recognize the financial statement benefit of tax refund claims is subject to change based on a number of factors, including but not limited to, changes in facts and circumstances, changes in tax laws, correspondence with tax authorities, and the results of tax audits and related proceedings, which may take several years or more to resolve. If tax authorities disagree with certain tax reporting positions taken by us, as a result, they assess additional taxes against us. We are regularly engaged in discussions and sometimes disputes with these tax authorities. We ultimately sometimes have to engage in litigation to achieve the results reflected in our tax estimates, and such litigation can be time consuming and expensive. We regularly assess the likely outcomes of any audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. If the ultimate determination of our taxes owed in any of these jurisdictions is for an amount in excess of the tax provision we have recorded or reserved for, our operating results, cash flows, and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Our corporate and legal entity structure and intercompany arrangements are subject to the tax laws of various jurisdictions, and we could be obligated to pay additional taxes, which would harm our results of operations. We generally conduct our international operations through wholly-owned subsidiaries and are or may be required to report our taxable income in various jurisdictions worldwide based upon our business operations in those jurisdictions. Our intercompany relationships are subject to complex transfer pricing regulations administered by taxing authorities in various jurisdictions. The amount of taxes we pay in different jurisdictions may depend on a variety of factors including the application of the tax laws of those various jurisdictions (including the U.S.) to our international business activities, changes in tax rates, new or revised tax laws or interpretations of existing tax laws and policies, and our ability to operate our business in a manner consistent with our corporate structure and intercompany arrangements. The relevant taxing authorities have in the past and may in the future disagree with our determinations as to the income and expenses attributable to specific jurisdictions. If such a disagreement were to occur, and our position was not sustained, we could be required to pay additional taxes, interest and penalties, which could result in one-time tax charges, higher effective tax rates, reduced cash flows and lower overall profitability of our operations. Any changes or interpretations to existing accounting pronouncements or taxation rules or practices may cause fluctuations in our reported results of operations or affect how we conduct our business. A change in accounting pronouncements or taxation rules or practices could have a significant effect on our reported results and may affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective. New accounting pronouncements, taxation rules and varying interpretations of accounting pronouncements or taxation rules have occurred in the past and may occur in the future. We could be required to modify a current tax or accounting position as a result of any such change, and this could adversely affect our reported financial results and could change the way we conduct our business.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

Please read the following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations together with our Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes thereto included under Item 15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. OVERVIEW Gen is a global company powering Digital Freedom with a family of trusted consumer brands including Norton, Avast, LifeLock, Avira, AVG, ReputationDefender and CCleaner. Our core cyber safety portfolio provides protection across three key categories in multiple channels and geographies, including security and performance, identity protection, and online privacy. We have built a technology platform that brings together software and service capabilities within these three categories into a comprehensive and easy-to-use integrated platform across our brands. We bring award-winning products and services in cybersecurity, privacy and identity protection to approximately 500 million users in more than 150 countries so they can live their digital lives safely, privately, and confidently today and for generations to come. Fiscal calendar We have a 52/53-week fiscal year ending on the Friday closest to March 31. Fiscal 2024, 2023 and 2022 in this report refers to fiscal years ended March 29, 2024, March 31, 2023 and April 1, 2022, respectively, each of which was a 52-week year. Financial summary The following table provides our key financial metrics for fiscal 2024 compared with fiscal 2023: • Net revenues increased $474 million, primarily due to an additional five and a half months of revenue contribution from Avast, up $419 million as compared to the corresponding period, which was acquired during the second quarter of fiscal 2023 in September 2022, and higher sales in both our consumer security and identity and information protection products, partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency fluctuations. • Operating income (loss) decreased $105 million, primarily due to an increase in legal accrual related to ongoing litigation and an increase in amortization of intangible assets recognized as a result of our acquisition of Avast. This is partially offset by the increase in net revenues discussed above and cost synergies post-acquisition. • Net income (loss) decreased $733 million and net income per share decreased $1.20, primarily due by the absence of the income tax benefit as a result of a tax capital loss in fiscal 2023, decreased operating income discussed above and increased interest expense associated with our senior credit facilities and two senior notes. • Cash and cash equivalents increased by $96 million compared to March 31, 2023, primarily due to cash generated from operating activities during fiscal 2024. This is offset by dividends paid to shareholders, voluntary prepayments of our Term B facility, a mandatory principal amortization payment of our Term A facility, and repurchases of our common stock. • During fiscal 2024, we returned $1,947 million of capital back to shareholders and bondholders. This was achieved through the repurchase of 21 million shares of our common stock, totaling $441 million. Additionally, we paid out a total of $323 million in quarterly dividends and carried out $1,183 million in debt pay downs, including $950 million in voluntary prepayments applied exclusively to the Term B facility. • During fiscal 2024, we increased net Direct customers by 0.9 million, increased monthly Direct ARPU by $0.15, and increased our Direct retention rate by 1%. • During fiscal 2024, we received an $899 million income tax refund related to the filing of our fiscal 2023 tax return, which was recorded net of allowances as part of Other current assets in the Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets as of March 31, 2023. 28 GLOBAL MACROECONOMIC CONDITIONS Our results of operations and cash flows are subject to fluctuations due to inflation, changes in foreign currency exchange rates relative to U.S. dollars, our reporting currency, changes in interest rates, as well as recession risks, any of which may persist for an extended period. Additionally, our international results are impacted by the economic conditions in the foreign markets in which we operate and by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. We conduct business in numerous currencies throughout our worldwide operations, and our entities hold monetary assets or liabilities, earn revenues, or incur costs in currencies other than the entity’s functional currency. As a result, we are exposed to foreign exchange gains or losses, which impact our operating results. As part of our foreign currency risk mitigation strategy, we have entered into monthly foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge certain foreign currency balance sheet exposure. In addition, in early 2022, worldwide inflation began to increase. In response to the heightened levels of inflation, central banks, including the U.S. Federal Reserve and the European Central Bank, raised interest rates significantly in 2022, resulting in an increase in our cost of debt. Although inflation rates slowed in 2023, global inflation remains high in 2024 and has impacted our results due to higher costs. Volatile market conditions related to geopolitical conflicts and other macroeconomic events have, at times, affected our results of operations and cash flows in non-material ways; however, geopolitical conflicts and other macroeconomic events may in the future materially impact our results of operations and cash flows. Due to our subscription-based business model, the effect of recent macroeconomic events may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods, if at all. Inflation, interest rates and foreign exchange rates remained volatile in 2023 and fluctuations in these indicators are uncertain and could result in further adverse impacts to our reported results. For a further discussion of the potential impacts of the global macroeconomic conditions on our business , please see “Risk Factors” in Item 1A. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES The preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. requires us to make estimates, including judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. We have based our estimates, judgements and assumptions on historical experience and on various other factors we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. We evaluate our estimates, judgements and assumptions on a regular basis and make changes accordingly. Management believes that the accounting estimates employed and the resulting amounts are reasonable; however, actual results may differ from these estimates. Making estimates, judgments and assumptions about future events is inherently unpredictable and is subject to significant uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. Should any of these estimates, judgements or assumptions change or prove to have been incorrect, it could have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Management believes the following critical accounting policies reflect the significant estimates used in the preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements. A summary of our significant accounting policies is included in Note 1, and a description of recently adopted accounting pronouncements and our expectation of the impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements and disclosures are included in Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Business combinations We allocate the purchase price of acquired businesses to the tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values on the acquisition date. Any residual purchase price is recorded as goodwill. The allocation of purchase price requires management to make significant estimates and assumptions in determining the fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed especially with respect to intangible assets. Critical estimates in valuing intangible assets include, but are not limited to, future expected cash flows from customer relationships, developed technology, trade names, and discount rates. Management estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable. Third-party valuation specialists are utilized for certain estimates. Unanticipated events and circumstances may occur which may affect the accuracy or validity of such assumptions, estimates or actual results. Income taxes We are subject to tax in multiple U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions. We are required to estimate the current tax exposure as well as assess the temporary differences between the accounting and tax treatment of assets and liabilities, including items such as accruals and allowances not currently deductible for tax purposes. We apply judgment in the recognition and measurement of current and deferred income taxes which includes the following critical accounting estimates. We use a two-step process to recognize liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits. The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if the weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. There is judgement and complexity involved in assessing if the tax position is more likely than not. If we determine that the tax position will more likely than not be sustained on audit, the second step requires us to estimate and measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement. It is inherently difficult and subjective to estimate such amounts, as this requires us to determine the probability of various outcomes. We re-evaluate these unrecognized tax benefits on a quarterly basis. This evaluation is based on factors including, but not limited to, changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, 29 effectively settled issues under audit and new audit activity. Such a change in recognition or measurement would result in the recognition of a tax benefit or an additional charge to the tax provision in the period. Loss contingencies We are subject to contingencies that expose us to losses, including various legal and regulatory proceedings, asserted and potential claims that arise in the ordinary course of business. An estimated loss from such contingencies is recognized as a charge to income if it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Judgment is required in both the determination of probability and the determination as to whether a loss is reasonably estimable. We review the status of each significant matter quarterly, and we may revise our estimates. Until the final resolution of such matters, there may be an exposure to loss in excess of the amount recorded, and such amounts could be material. Should any of our estimates and assumptions change or prove to have been incorrect, it could have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements for that reporting period. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS We have elected to omit discussion on the earliest of the three years presented in the Consolidated Financial Statements of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Refer to Part II, Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2023 for year-over-year comparisons of the results of operation between fiscal 2023 and fiscal 2022 as well as discussion of fiscal 2022 performance metrics and cash flow activity, all of which are incorporated herein by reference. The following table sets forth our Consolidated Statements of Operations data as a percentage of net revenues for the periods indicated: Note: The percentages may not add due to rounding. Net revenues Fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023 Net revenues increased $474 million, primarily due to a $388 million increase in sales of our consumer security products and a $88 million increase in sales of our identity and protection products. This was inclusive of $25 million of foreign exchange headwinds, primarily in our consumer security products and a $419 million increase from revenue contribution from Avast due to the additional five and a half months as compared to the corresponding period. Performance Metrics We regularly monitor a number of metrics in order to measure our current performance and estimate our future performance. We believe these key operating metrics are useful to investors because management uses these metrics to assess the growth of 30 our business and the effectiveness of our marketing and operational strategies. Our metrics may be calculated in a manner different than similar metrics used by other companies. The following table summarizes supplemental key performance metrics for our solutions: (1)    Non-GAAP Direct customer revenue differs from U.S. GAAP direct customer revenue in fiscal 2023 because it excludes a $2 million, reduction of revenue from contract liability purchase accounting adjustments. We believe that eliminating the impact of this adjustment improves the comparability of revenues between periods. In addition, although the adjustment amounts will never be recognized in our U.S. GAAP financial statements, we do not expect the acquisitions to affect the future renewal rates of revenues excluded by the adjustments. (2)    Legacy revenues includes revenues from products or solutions from markets that we have exited and in which we no longer operate, have been discontinued or identified to be discontinued, or remain in maintenance mode as a result of integration and product portfolio decisions. (3)    Due to the close of the acquisition of Avast in the second quarter of fiscal 2023, the fiscal 2023 ARPU is based on the average ARPU for the second, third, and fourth quarter of fiscal 2023, but excludes the first quarter of fiscal 2023. We define direct customer count as active paid users of our products and solutions who have a direct billing and/or registration relationship with us at the end of the reported period. Average direct customer count presents the average of the total number of direct customers at the beginning and end of the applicable period. We exclude users on free trials from our direct customer count. Users who have indirectly purchased and/or registered for our products or solutions through partners are excluded unless such users convert or renew their subscription directly with us or sign up for a paid membership through our web stores or third-party app stores. The methodologies used to measure these metrics require judgment and are subject to change due to improvements or revisions to our methodology. From time to time, we review our metrics and may discover inaccuracies or make adjustments to improve their accuracy, which can result in adjustments to our historical metrics. Our ability to recalculate our historical metrics may be impacted by data limitations or other factors that require us to apply different methodologies for such adjustments. We generally do not intend to update previously disclosed metrics for any such inaccuracies or adjustments that are deemed not material. ARPU is calculated as estimated direct customer revenues for the period divided by the average direct customer count for the same period, expressed as a monthly figure. Non-GAAP estimated direct customer revenues and ARPU have limitations as analytical tools and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for U.S. GAAP estimated direct customer revenues or other U.S. GAAP measures. We monitor ARPU because it helps us understand the rate at which we are monetizing our consumer customer base. Retention rate is defined as the percentage of direct customers as of the end of the period from one year ago who are still active as of the most recently completed fiscal period. We monitor the retention rate to evaluate the effectiveness of our strategies to improve renewals of subscriptions. Net revenues by geographical region Percentage of revenue by geographical region as presented below is based on the billing location of the customers. (1)    From time to time, changes in allocation methodologies cause changes to the revenue by geographic area above. When changes occur, we recast historical amounts to match the current methodology, such as for fiscal 2023 where we aligned allocation methodologies across similar product categories. The Americas include U.S., Canada, and Latin America; EMEA includes Europe, Middle East, and Africa; APJ includes Asia Pacific and Japan. While the percentage of revenue by geographic region in fiscal 2024 remains primarily in the Americas, our acquisition of Avast has expanded our presence in countries in the EMEA region. 31 Cost of revenues Fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023 Our cost of revenues increased $142 million, primarily due to a $93 million increase in the amortization of acquired intangible assets, a $29 million increase in revenue share costs, and a $18 million increase in payment processing fees as a result of higher billings. Operating expenses Our operating expenses increased in fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023 primarily due to an increase in legal accruals and amortization of intangible assets. This was partially offset by a decrease in transaction and integration costs, in connection with our acquisition of Avast, which was completed during the second quarter of fiscal 2023. Fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023 Sales and marketing expense increased $51 million, due to a $32 million increase in advertising, a $9 million increase in occupancy and IT costs, and an $8 million increase in headcount and outside services. Research and development expense increased $19 million, due to a $10 million increase in headcount and outside services and a $10 million increase in cloud hosting costs. General and administrative expense increased $318 million, primarily due to a $388 million increase in legal accrual, of which $290 million is related to our litigation case with the Trustees of Columbia University in the City of New York (Columbia) and the corresponding legal fees, $52 million related to a legal accrual in the third quarter of fiscal 2024 and a $41 million reversal in legal accrual in the third quarter of fiscal 2023, both of which are related to the GSA litigation. This was partially offset by a $65 million decrease in acquisition and integration costs related to our acquisition of Avast. Amortization of intangible assets increased $61 million as a result of the acquisition of Avast. Restructuring and other costs decreased $12 million, primarily due a $10 million decrease in stock-based compensation expense. See Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for details of the fiscal 2024 restructuring activities. Non-operating income (expense), net Fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023 Non-operating income (expense), net, increased $240 million, primarily due to an increase in interest expense associated with borrowings under our senior credit facilities (as defined below) and two senior notes, which were issued during the second quarter of fiscal 2023, and a $33 million increase in loss on equity investments related to the impairment of one of our non-marketable equity investments. 32 Provision for income taxes Fiscal 2024 compared to fiscal 2023 Our effective tax rate increased primarily due to a one-time income tax benefit as a result of a tax capital loss in fiscal 2023 partially offset by an income tax benefit as a result of an operational and legal entity restructuring in fiscal 2024. See Note 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for information about our unrecognized tax benefits. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) and many countries have proposed to reallocate a portion of profits of large multinational enterprises (MNE) with an annual global turnover exceeding €20 billion to markets where sales arise (Pillar One), as well as enact a global minimum tax rate of at least 15% for MNE with an annual global turnover exceeding €750 million (Pillar Two). On December 12, 2022, the European Union reached an agreement to implement the Pillar Two directive of the OECD’s reform of international taxation at the European Union level. The agreement affirms that all Member States must transpose the Pillar Two directive by December 31, 2023. The rules will therefore first be applicable for fiscal years starting on or after December 31, 2023. Ireland, Czech Republic, and certain jurisdictions in which we operate have enacted legislation to implement Pillar Two and other countries are actively considering changes to their tax laws to adopt certain parts of the OECD’s proposals. The enactment of Pillar Two legislation is not expected to have a material adverse effect on our effective tax rate and Consolidated Financial Statements in the near term. We will continue to monitor and reflect the impact of such legislative changes in future Consolidated Financial Statements as appropriate. LIQUIDITY, CAPITAL RESOURCES AND CASH REQUIREMENTS Liquidity and Capital Resources We have historically relied on cash generated from operations, borrowings under credit facilities, issuances of debt and proceeds from divestitures for our liquidity needs. Our capital allocation strategy is to balance driving stockholder returns, managing financial risk and preserving our flexibility to pursue strategic options, including acquisitions and mergers. Historically, this has included a quarterly cash dividend, the repayment of debt and the repurchase of shares of our common stock. Based on past performance and current expectations, we believe that our existing cash and cash equivalents, together with cash generated from operations and amounts available under our Revolving Facility, will be sufficient to meet our working capital needs, support on-going business activities and finance the expected synergy costs related to the acquisition of Avast through at least the next 12 months and to meet our known long-term contractual obligations. We are currently not aware of any trends or demands, commitments, events or uncertainties that will result in or that are reasonably likely to result in our liquidity increasing or decreasing in any material way that will impact our capital needs during or beyond the next 12 months. However, our future liquidity and capital requirements may vary materially from those as of March 29, 2024 depending on several factors, including, but not limited to, economic conditions; political climate; the expansion of sales and marketing activities; the costs to acquire or invest in businesses; and the risks and uncertainties discussed in “Risk Factors” in Item 1A. Cash flows The following table summarizes our cash flow activities in fiscal 2024 and 2023: See Note 7 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for our supplemental cash flow information. Cash from operating activities Our cash flows provided by and used in operating activities in fiscal 2024 increased $1,307 million, primarily due to an income tax refund related to the filing of our fiscal 2023 tax return during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2024 and cash collections from revenue attributable to our acquisition of Avast during the second quarter of fiscal 2023. 33 Cash from investing activities Our cash flows provided by and used in investing activities in fiscal 2024 increased $6,549 million, primarily related to the absence of the total cash consideration paid for our acquisition of Avast during the second quarter of fiscal 2023. Cash from financing activities Our cash flows provided by and used in financing activities in fiscal 2024 decreased $6,642 million, primarily due to lower repayments of debt and repurchases of common stock under our repurchase program and by the absence of proceeds from the issuance of debt during the fiscal 2023. Fiscal 2024 reflects $1,183 million in voluntary prepayments and principal amortization payments of our Term Loans and mortgages and $441 million in repurchases of common stock. In contrast, fiscal 2023 reflects $8,954 million of aggregate proceeds: $3,910 million from Term A Facility, $3,690 million from Term B Facility, $900 million from the 6.75% Senior Notes and $600 million from the 7.125% Senior Notes, net of $146 million of debt issuance costs, offset by the $400 million repayment of our 3.95% Senior Notes, $1,010 million repayment of our Initial Term Loan, $703 million repayment of our Delayed Draw Term Loan, the settlement of the $525 million principal and $100 million equity rights associated with our New 2.0% Convertible Notes, $250 million prepayment of our Term B Facility, and $59 million mandatory amortization payments of our Term A and Term B Facility. Repurchases of common stock in fiscal 2023 were $904 million. Cash and cash equivalents As of March 29, 2024, we had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $846 million, of which $379 million was held by our foreign subsidiaries. Our cash and cash equivalents are managed with the objective to preserve principal, maintain liquidity and generate investment returns. The participation exemption system under current U.S. federal tax regulations generally allows us to make distributions of non-U.S. earnings to the U.S. without incurring additional U.S. federal tax; however, these distributions may be subject to applicable state or non-U.S. taxes. Debt We have an undrawn revolving credit facility of $1,500 million, which expires in September 2027. Stock repurchases During the fiscal 2024 and 2023, we executed repurchases of 21 million and 40 million of our common stock under our existing stock repurchase program for an aggregate amount of $441 million and $904 million, respectively. Material Cash Requirements Our principal cash requirements are primarily to meet our working capital needs, support on-going business activities, including payment of taxes and cash dividends, payment of contractual obligations, funding capital expenditures, servicing existing debt, repurchasing shares of our common stock and investing in business acquisitions and mergers. Debt instruments As of March 29, 2024, our total outstanding principal amount of indebtedness is summarized as follows. See Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information on our debt. The Credit Agreement contains customary representations and warranties and affirmative and negative covenants, including compliance with specified financial ratios . As of March 29, 2024, we were in compliance with all debt covenants. See Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information regarding financial ratios and debt covenant compliance. Dividends On May 9, 2024, we announced a cash dividend of $0.125 per share of common stock to be paid in June 2024. Any future dividends and dividend equivalents will be subject to the approval from our Board of Directors. Stock repurchase program Under our stock repurchase program, we may purchase shares of our outstanding common stock on the open market (including through trading plans intended to qualify under Rule 10b5-1 under the Exchange Act) and through accelerated stock repurchase transactions. As of March 29, 2024, the remaining balance of our stock repurchase authorization is $429 million and does not have an expiration date. In May 2024, our Board of Directors authorized a new stock repurchase program through which we may repurchase shares of our common stock in an aggregate amount of up to $3 billion with no fixed expiration. This new stock repurchase program will supersede any amounts under the prior stock repurchase programs. The timing and actual number of shares repurchased will depend on a variety of factors, including price, general business and market conditions and other investment opportunities. 34 Restructuring In connection with the acquisition of Avast, our Board of Directors approved a restructuring plan (the September 2022 Plan) to realize cost savings and operational synergies, which became effective upon the close of the acquisition on September 12, 2022. We have incurred and expect to incur cash expenditures for severance and termination benefits, contract terminations, facilities closures, and the sale of underutilized facilities as well as stock-based compensation charges for accelerated equity awards for certain terminated employees. We expect that we will incur total costs up to $150 million following the completion of the acquisition. These actions are expected to be completed by the end of fiscal 2025. During fiscal 2024, we made $41 million in cash payments related to the September 2022 Plan. See Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further cash flow information associated with our restructuring activities. Significant contractual obligations The following is a schedule of our principal commitments as of March 29, 2024. The expected timing and amount of short-term and long-term payments of the obligations in the following table is estimated based on current information. Timing of payments and actual amounts paid may be different, depending on the time of receipt of goods or services, or changes to agreed-upon amounts for certain obligations. (1) As of March 29, 2024, our total outstanding principal amount of indebtedness is comprised of $6,110 million in Term Loans, $2,600 million in Senior Notes and $6 million in mortgage loans. See Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information about our debt and debt covenants. (2) Interest payments calculated based on the contractual terms of the related debt instruments. Interest on variable rate debt was calculated using the interest rate in effect as of March 29, 2024. Interest on variable rate debt may vary based on the performance of our interest rate swaps. See Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information on the term loans and senior notes. (3) Agreements for purchases of goods or services, with terms that are enforceable and legally binding and specify all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum, or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. These amounts include agreements to purchase goods or services that have cancellation provisions requiring little or no payment. The amounts under such contracts are included because management believes that cancellation of these contracts is unlikely, and we expect to make future cash payments according to the contract terms or in similar amounts for similar materials. (4) Transition tax payments on previously untaxed foreign earnings of foreign subsidiaries under the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which may be paid through July 2025. (5) Payments for various non-cancelable operating lease agreements that expire on various dates through fiscal 2030. The amounts in the table above exclude expected sublease income. See Note 9 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information on leases. Due to the uncertainty with respect to the timing of future cash flows associated with our unrecognized tax benefits and other long-term taxes as of March 29, 2024, we are unable to make reasonably reliable estimates of the period of cash settlement with the respective taxing authorities. Therefore, $1,346 million in long-term income taxes payable has been excluded from the contractual obligations table. See Note 13 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information. Indemnifications In the ordinary course of business, we may provide indemnifications of varying scope and terms to customers, vendors, lessors, business partners, subsidiaries, and other parties with respect to certain matters, including, but not limited to, product warranties and losses arising out of our breach of agreements or representations and warranties made by us, including claims alleging that our software infringes on the intellectual property rights of a third party. In addition, our bylaws contain indemnification obligations to our directors, officers, employees and agents, and we have entered into indemnification agreements with our directors and certain of our officers to give such directors and officers additional contractual assurances regarding the scope of the indemnification set forth in our bylaws and to provide additional procedural protections. We maintain director and officer insurance, which may cover certain liabilities arising from our obligation to indemnify our directors and officers. Refer to Note 18 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information on our indemnifications. 35