********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Our business is subject to various risks and uncertainties. Any of the risks described below could materially, adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Business and Industry Risks Global health developments and economic uncertainty resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. The public health crisis caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and the measures being taken by governments, businesses, including us, and the public at large to limit COVID-19’s spread have had, and may continue to have, certain negative impacts on our business, financial condition, and results of operations including, without limitation, the following: ● We have experienced, and may continue to experience, a decrease in sales of certain of our products in markets around the world that have been affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. In particular, sales of our products in the away-from-home food outlets across all our major markets have been negatively affected by reduced consumer traffic resulting from shelter-in-place regulations or recommendations and closings of restaurants, schools and cafeterias. If the COVID-19 pandemic persists or intensifies, its negative impacts on our sales, particularly in away-from-home food outlets, could be more prolonged and may become more severe. ● Deteriorating economic and political conditions in our major markets affected by the COVID-19 pandemic, such as increased unemployment, decreases in disposable income, declines in consumer confidence, or economic slowdowns or recessions, could cause a decrease in demand for our products. ● We have experienced minor temporary workforce disruptions in our supply chain as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Illness, travel restrictions, absenteeism, or other workforce disruptions could negatively affect our supply chain, manufacturing, distribution, or other business processes. We may face additional production disruptions in the future, which may place constraints on our ability to produce products in a timely manner or may increase our costs. ● Changes and volatility in consumer purchasing and consumption patterns may increase demand for our products in one quarter, resulting in decreased consumer demand for our products in subsequent quarters. Short term or sustained increases in consumer demand at our retail customers may exceed our production capacity or otherwise strain our supply chain. ● The failure of third parties on which we rely, including those third parties who supply our ingredients, packaging, capital equipment and other necessary operating materials, contract manufacturers, commercial transport, distributors, contractors, commercial banks, and external business partners, to meet their obligations to us, or significant disruptions in their ability to do so, may negatively impact our operations. ● Significant changes in the political conditions in markets in which we manufacture, sell, or distribute our products (including quarantines, import/export restrictions, price controls, governmental or regulatory actions, closures or other restrictions that limit or close our operating and manufacturing facilities, restrict our employees’ ability to travel or perform necessary business functions, or otherwise prevent our third-party partners, suppliers, or customers from sufficiently staffing operations, including operations necessary for the production, distribution, and sale of our products) could adversely impact our operations and results. ● Actions we have taken or may take, or decisions we have made or may make, as a consequence of the COVID-19 pandemic may result in investigations, legal claims or litigation against us. The categories in which we participate are very competitive, and if we are not able to compete effectively, our results of operations could be adversely affected. The human and pet food categories in which we participate are very competitive. Our principal competitors in these categories are manufacturers, as well as retailers with their own branded and private label products. Competitors market and sell their products through brick-and-mortar stores and e-commerce. All of our principal competitors have substantial financial, marketing, and other 9 resources. In most product categories, we compete not only with other widely advertised branded products, but also with regional brands and with generic and private label products that are generally sold at lower prices. Competition in our product categories is based on product innovation, product quality, price, brand recognition and loyalty, effectiveness of marketing, promotional activity, convenient ordering and delivery to the consumer, and the ability to identify and satisfy consumer preferences. If our large competitors were to seek an advantage through pricing or promotional changes, we could choose to do the same, which could adversely affect our margins and profitability. If we did not do the same, our revenues and market share could be adversely affected. Our market share and revenue growth could also be adversely impacted if we are not successful in introducing innovative products in response to changing consumer demands or by new product introductions of our competitors. If we are unable to build and sustain brand equity by offering recognizably superior product quality, we may be unable to maintain premium pricing over generic and private label products. We may be unable to maintain our profit margins in the face of a consolidating retail environment. There has been significant consolidation in the grocery industry, resulting in customers with increased purchasing power. In addition, large retail customers may seek to use their position to improve their profitability through improved efficiency, lower pricing, increased reliance on their own brand name products, increased emphasis on generic and other economy brands, and increased promotional programs. If we are unable to use our scale, marketing expertise, product innovation, knowledge of consumers’ needs, and category leadership positions to respond to these demands, our profitability and volume growth could be negatively impacted. In addition, the loss of any large customer could adversely affect our sales and profits. In fiscal 2022, Walmart accounted for 20 percent of our consolidated net sales and 28 percent of net sales of our North America Retail segment. For more information on significant customers, please see Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report. Price changes for the commodities we depend on for raw materials, packaging, and energy may adversely affect our profitability. The principal raw materials that we use are commodities that experience price volatility caused by external conditions such as weather, climate change, product scarcity, limited sources of supply, commodity market fluctuations, currency fluctuations, trade tariffs, pandemics (such as the COVID-19 pandemic), war (including international sanctions imposed on Russia for its invasion of Ukraine), and changes in governmental agricultural and energy policies and regulations. Commodity prices have become, and may continue to be, more volatile during the COVID-19 pandemic. Commodity price changes may result in unexpected increases in raw material, packaging, energy, and transportation costs. If we are unable to increase productivity to offset these increased costs or increase our prices, we may experience reduced margins and profitability. We do not fully hedge against changes in commodity prices, and the risk management procedures that we do use may not always work as we intend. Concerns with the safety and quality of our products could cause consumers to avoid certain products or ingredients. We could be adversely affected if consumers in our principal markets lose confidence in the safety and quality of certain of our products or ingredients. Adverse publicity about these types of concerns, whether or not valid, may discourage consumers from buying our products or cause production and delivery disruptions. We may be unable to anticipate changes in consumer preferences and trends, which may result in decreased demand for our products. Our success depends in part on our ability to anticipate the tastes, eating habits, and purchasing behaviors of consumers and to offer products that appeal to their preferences in channels where they shop. Consumer preferences and category-level consumption may change from time to time and can be affected by a number of different trends and other factors. If we fail to anticipate, identify or react to these changes and trends, such as adapting to emerging e-commerce channels, or to introduce new and improved products on a timely basis, we may experience reduced demand for our products, which would in turn cause our revenues and profitability to suffer. Similarly, demand for our products could be affected by consumer concerns regarding the health effects of ingredients such as sodium, trans fats, genetically modified organisms, sugar, processed wheat, grain-free or legume-rich pet food, or other product ingredients or attributes. We may be unable to grow our market share or add products that are in faster growing and more profitable categories. The food industry’s growth potential is constrained by population growth. Our success depends in part on our ability to grow our business faster than populations are growing in the markets that we serve. One way to achieve that growth is to enhance our portfolio by adding innovative new products in faster growing and more profitable categories. Our future results will also depend on our ability to increase market share in our existing product categories. If we do not succeed in developing innovative products for new and existing categories, our growth and profitability could be adversely affected. 10 Our results may be negatively impacted if consumers do not maintain their favorable perception of our brands. Maintaining and continually enhancing the value of our many iconic brands is critical to the success of our business. The value of our brands is based in large part on the degree to which consumers react and respond positively to these brands. Brand value could diminish significantly due to a number of factors, including consumer perception that we have acted in an irresponsible manner, adverse publicity about our products, our failure to maintain the quality of our products, the failure of our products to deliver consistently positive consumer experiences, concerns about food safety, or our products becoming unavailable to consumers. Consumer demand for our products may also be impacted by changes in the level of advertising or promotional support. The use of social and digital media by consumers, us, and third parties increases the speed and extent that information or misinformation and opinions can be shared. Negative posts or comments about us, our brands, or our products on social or digital media could seriously damage our brands and reputation. If we do not maintain the favorable perception of our brands, our business results could be negatively impacted. Operating Risks If we are not efficient in our production, our profitability could suffer as a result of the highly competitive environment in which we operate. Our future success and earnings growth depend in part on our ability to be efficient in the production and manufacture of our products in highly competitive markets. Gaining additional efficiencies may become more difficult over time. Our failure to reduce costs through productivity gains or by eliminating redundant costs resulting from acquisitions or divestitures could adversely affect our profitability and weaken our competitive position. Many productivity initiatives involve complex reorganization of manufacturing facilities and production lines. Such manufacturing realignment may result in the interruption of production, which may negatively impact product volume and margins. We periodically engage in restructuring and cost savings initiatives designed to increase our efficiency and reduce expenses. If we are unable to execute those initiatives as planned, we may not realize all or any of the anticipated benefits, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Disruption of our supply chain could adversely affect our business. Our ability to make, move, and sell products is critical to our success. Damage or disruption to raw material supplies or our manufacturing or distribution capabilities due to weather, climate change, natural disaster, fire, terrorism, cyber-attack, pandemics (such as the COVID-19 pandemic), war, governmental restrictions or mandates, labor shortages, strikes, import/export restrictions, or other factors could impair our ability to manufacture or sell our products. Many of our product lines are manufactured at a single location or sourced from a single supplier. The failure of third parties on which we rely, including those third parties who supply our ingredients, packaging, capital equipment and other necessary operating materials, contract manufacturers, commercial transport, distributors, contractors, and external business partners, to meet their obligations to us, or significant disruptions in their ability to do so, may negatively impact our operations. Our suppliers’ policies and practices can damage our reputation and the quality and safety of our products. Disputes with significant suppliers, including disputes regarding pricing or performance, could adversely affect our ability to supply products to our customers and could materially and adversely affect our sales, financial condition, and results of operations. Failure to take adequate steps to mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or to effectively manage such events if they occur, particularly when a product is sourced from a single location or supplier, could adversely affect our business and results of operations, as well as require additional resources to restore our supply chain. Short term or sustained increases in consumer demand at our retail customers may exceed our production capacity or otherwise strain our supply chain. Our failure to meet the demand for our products could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our international operations are subject to political and economic risks. In fiscal 2022, 23 percent of our consolidated net sales were generated outside of the United States. We are accordingly subject to a number of risks relating to doing business internationally, any of which could significantly harm our business. These risks include: ● political and economic instability; ● exchange controls and currency exchange rates; ● tariffs on products and ingredients that we import and export; ● nationalization or government control of operations; ● compliance with anti-corruption regulations; ● foreign tax treaties and policies; and ● restriction on the transfer of funds to and from foreign countries, including potentially negative tax consequences. Our financial performance on a U.S. dollar denominated basis is subject to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. These fluctuations could cause material variations in our results of operations. Our principal exposures are to the Australian dollar, Brazilian real, British 11 pound sterling, Canadian dollar, Chinese renminbi, euro, Japanese yen, Mexican peso, and Swiss franc. From time to time, we enter into agreements that are intended to reduce the effects of our exposure to currency fluctuations, but these agreements may not be effective in significantly reducing our exposure. A strengthening in the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies in the countries in which we operate would negatively affect our reported results of operations and financial results due to currency translation losses and currency transaction losses. Our business operations could be disrupted if our information technology systems fail to perform adequately or are breached. Information technology serves an important role in the efficient and effective operation of our business. We rely on information technology networks and systems, including the internet, to process, transmit, and store electronic information to manage a variety of business processes and to comply with regulatory, legal, and tax requirements. Our information technology systems and infrastructure are critical to effectively manage our key business processes including digital marketing, order entry and fulfillment, supply chain management, finance, administration, and other business processes. These technologies enable internal and external communication among our locations, employees, suppliers, customers, and others and include the receipt and storage of personal information about our employees, consumers, and proprietary business information. Our information technology systems, some of which are dependent on services provided by third parties, may be vulnerable to damage, interruption, or shutdown due to any number of causes such as catastrophic events, natural disasters, fires, power outages, systems failures, telecommunications failures, security breaches, computer viruses, hackers, employee error or malfeasance, and other causes. Increased cyber-security threats pose a potential risk to the security and viability of our information technology systems, as well as the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the data stored on those systems. The failure of our information technology systems to perform as we anticipate could disrupt our business and result in transaction errors, processing inefficiencies, data loss, legal claims or proceedings, regulatory penalties, and the loss of sales and customers. Any interruption of our information technology systems could have operational, reputational, legal, and financial impacts that may have a material adverse effect on our business. Our failure to successfully integrate acquisitions into our existing operations could adversely affect our financial results. From time to time, we evaluate potential acquisitions or joint ventures that would further our strategic objectives. Our success depends, in part, upon our ability to integrate acquired and existing operations. If we are unable to successfully integrate acquisitions, our financial results could suffer. Additional potential risks associated with acquisitions include additional debt leverage, the loss of key employees and customers of the acquired business, the assumption of unknown liabilities, the inherent risk associated with entering a geographic area or line of business in which we have no or limited prior experience, failure to achieve anticipated synergies, and the impairment of goodwill or other acquisition-related intangible assets. Legal and Regulatory Risks If our products become adulterated, misbranded, or mislabeled, we might need to recall those items and may experience product liability claims if consumers or their pets are injured. We may need to recall some of our products if they become adulterated, misbranded, or mislabeled. A widespread product recall could result in significant losses due to the costs of a recall, the destruction of product inventory, and lost sales due to the unavailability of product for a period of time. We could also suffer losses from a significant product liability judgment against us. A significant product recall or product liability case could also result in adverse publicity, damage to our reputation, and a loss of consumer confidence in our products, which could have an adverse effect on our business results and the value of our brands. New regulations or regulatory-based claims could adversely affect our business. Our facilities and products are subject to many laws and regulations administered by the United States Department of Agriculture, the Federal Food and Drug Administration, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, and other federal, state, local, and foreign governmental agencies relating to the production, packaging, labelling, storage, distribution, quality, and safety of food products and the health and safety of our employees. Our failure to comply with such laws and regulations could subject us to lawsuits, administrative penalties, and civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, and recalls of our products. We advertise our products and could be the target of claims relating to alleged false or deceptive advertising under federal, state, and foreign laws and regulations. We may also be subject to new laws or regulations restricting our right to advertise our products, including restrictions on the audience to whom products are marketed. Changes in laws or regulations that impose additional regulatory requirements on us could increase our cost of doing business or restrict our actions, causing our results of operations to be adversely affected. Significant COVID-19 related changes in the political conditions in markets in which we manufacture, sell or distribute our products (including quarantines, import/export restrictions, price controls, governmental or regulatory actions, closures or other restrictions that limit or close our operating and manufacturing facilities, restrict our employees’ ability to travel or perform necessary business functions or otherwise prevent our third-party partners, suppliers, or customers from sufficiently staffing operations, including 12 operations necessary for the production, distribution, sale, and support of our products) could adversely impact our operations and results. We are subject to various federal, state, local, and foreign environmental laws and regulations. Our failure to comply with environmental laws and regulations could subject us to lawsuits, administrative penalties, and civil remedies. We are currently party to a variety of environmental remediation obligations. Due to regulatory complexities, uncertainties inherent in litigation, and the risk of unidentified contaminants on current and former properties of ours, the potential exists for remediation, liability, indemnification, and compliance costs to differ from our estimates. We cannot guarantee that our costs in relation to these matters, or compliance with environmental laws in general, will not exceed our established liabilities or otherwise have an adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Climate change and other sustainability matters could adversely affect our business. There is growing concern that carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the earth’s atmosphere may have an adverse impact on global temperatures, weather patterns, and the frequency and severity of extreme weather and natural disasters. If such climate change has a negative effect on agricultural productivity, we may experience decreased availability and higher pricing for certain commodities that are necessary for our products. Increased frequency or severity of extreme weather could also impair our production capabilities, disrupt our supply chain, impact demand for our products, and increase our insurance and other operating costs. Increasing concern over climate change or other sustainability issues also may adversely impact demand for our products due to changes in consumer preferences or negative consumer reaction to our commitments and actions to address these issues. We may also become subject to additional legal and regulatory requirements relating to climate change or other sustainability issues, including greenhouse gas emission regulations (e.g., carbon taxes), energy policies, sustainability initiatives (e.g., single-use plastic limits), and disclosure obligations. If additional legal and regulatory requirements are enacted and are more aggressive than the sustainability measures that we are currently undertaking to monitor our emissions and improve our energy efficiency and other sustainability goals, or if we chose to take actions to achieve more aggressive goals, we may experience significant increases in our costs of operations. We have announced goals and commitments to reduce our carbon footprint. If we fail to achieve or improperly report on our progress toward achieving our carbon emissions reduction goals and commitments, then the resulting negative publicity could harm our reputation and adversely affect demand for our products. Financial and Economic Risks Volatility in the market value of derivatives we use to manage exposures to fluctuations in commodity prices will cause volatility in our gross margins and net earnings. We utilize derivatives to manage price risk for some of our principal ingredient and energy costs, including grains (oats, wheat, and corn), oils (principally soybean), dairy products, natural gas, and diesel fuel. Changes in the values of these derivatives are recorded in earnings currently, resulting in volatility in both gross margin and net earnings. These gains and losses are reported in cost of sales in our Consolidated Statements of Earnings and in unallocated corporate items outside our segment operating results until we utilize the underlying input in our manufacturing process, at which time the gains and losses are reclassified to segment operating profit. We also record our grain inventories at net realizable value. We may experience volatile earnings as a result of these accounting treatments. Economic downturns could limit consumer demand for our products. The willingness of consumers to purchase our products depends in part on local economic conditions. In periods of economic uncertainty, consumers may purchase more generic, private label, and other economy brands and may forego certain purchases altogether. In those circumstances, we could experience a reduction in sales of higher margin products or a shift in our product mix to lower margin offerings. In addition, as a result of economic conditions or competitive actions, we may be unable to raise our prices sufficiently to protect margins. Consumers may also reduce the amount of food that they consume away from home at customers that purchase products from our North America Foodservice segment. Any of these events could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 13 We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which could limit financing and other options and in some cases adversely affect our ability to pay dividends. As of May 29, 2022, we had total debt and noncontrolling interests of $11.9 billion. The agreements under which we have issued indebtedness do not prevent us from incurring additional unsecured indebtedness in the future. Our level of indebtedness may limit our: ● ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, or general corporate purposes, particularly if the ratings assigned to our debt securities by rating organizations were revised downward; and ● flexibility to adjust to changing business and market conditions and may make us more vulnerable to a downturn in general economic conditions. There are various financial covenants and other restrictions in our debt instruments and noncontrolling interests. If we fail to comply with any of these requirements, the related indebtedness, and other unrelated indebtedness, could become due and payable prior to its stated maturity and our ability to obtain additional or alternative financing may also be adversely affected. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt and other obligations will depend on our operating and financial performance, which in turn is subject to prevailing economic conditions and to financial, business, and other factors beyond our control. Global capital and credit market issues could negatively affect our liquidity, increase our costs of borrowing, and disrupt the operations of our suppliers and customers. We depend on stable, liquid, and well-functioning capital and credit markets to fund our operations. Although we believe that our operating cash flows, financial assets, access to capital and credit markets, and revolving credit agreements will permit us to meet our financing needs for the foreseeable future, there can be no assurance that future volatility or disruption in the capital and credit markets will not impair our liquidity or increase our costs of borrowing. We also utilize interest rate derivatives to reduce the volatility of our financing costs. If we are not effective in hedging this volatility, we may experience an increase in our costs of borrowing. Our business could also be negatively impacted if our suppliers or customers experience disruptions resulting from tighter capital and credit markets or a slowdown in the general economy. We may not have access to preferred sources of liquidity when needed or on terms we find acceptable, and our borrowing costs could increase. An economic or credit crisis could occur and impair credit availability and our ability to raise capital when needed. A disruption in the financial markets may have a negative effect on our derivative counterparties and could impair our banking or other business partners, on whom we rely for access to capital and as counterparties to our derivative contracts. From time to time, we issue variable rate securities based on London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) and enter into interest rate swaps that contain a variable element based on LIBOR. The United Kingdom Financial Conduct Authority intends to phase out the LIBOR rates associated with our outstanding variable rate securities and interest rate swaps by June 2023. The U.S. Federal Reserve has selected the Secured Overnight Funding Rate (SOFR) as the preferred alternate rate to LIBOR. We are planning for this transition and will amend any contracts to accommodate the SOFR rate where required. We continue to evaluate the potential impact of this transition, which remains subject to uncertainty. Volatility in the securities markets, interest rates, and other factors could substantially increase our defined benefit pension, other postretirement benefit, and postemployment benefit costs. We sponsor a number of defined benefit plans for employees in the United States, Canada, and various foreign locations, including defined benefit pension, retiree health and welfare, severance, and other postemployment plans. Our major defined benefit pension plans are funded with trust assets invested in a globally diversified portfolio of securities and other investments. Changes in interest rates, mortality rates, health care costs, early retirement rates, investment returns, and the market value of plan assets can affect the funded status of our defined benefit plans and cause volatility in the net periodic benefit cost and future funding requirements of the plans. A significant increase in our obligations or future funding requirements could have a negative impact on our results of operations and cash flows from operations. A change in the assumptions regarding the future performance of our businesses or a different weighted-average cost of capital used to value our reporting units or our indefinite-lived intangible assets could negatively affect our consolidated results of operations and net worth. As of May 29, 2022, we had $21.4 billion of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets. Goodwill for each of our reporting units is tested for impairment annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that impairment may have occurred. We compare the carrying value of the reporting unit, including goodwill, to the fair value of the reporting unit. If the fair value of the 14 reporting unit is less than the carrying value of the reporting unit, including goodwill, impairment has occurred. Our estimates of fair value are determined based on a discounted cash flow model. Growth rates for sales and profits are determined using inputs from our long-range planning process. We also make estimates of discount rates, perpetuity growth assumptions, market comparables, and other factors. If current expectations for growth rates for sales and profits are not met, or other market factors and macroeconomic conditions were to change, then our reporting units could become significantly impaired. While we currently believe that our goodwill is not impaired, different assumptions regarding the future performance of our businesses could result in significant impairment losses. We evaluate the useful lives of our intangible assets, primarily intangible assets associated with the Blue Buffalo, Pillsbury , Totino’s , Progresso , Old El Paso , Yoki , Häagen-Dazs , and Annie’s brands, to determine if they are finite or indefinite-lived. Reaching a determination on useful life requires significant judgments and assumptions regarding the future effects of obsolescence, demand, competition, other economic factors (such as the stability of the industry, known technological advances, legislative action that results in an uncertain or changing regulatory environment, and expected changes in distribution channels), the level of required maintenance expenditures, and the expected lives of other related groups of assets. Our indefinite-lived intangible assets are also tested for impairment annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that impairment may have occurred. Our estimate of the fair value of the brands is based on a discounted cash flow model using inputs including projected revenues from our long-range plan, assumed royalty rates which could be payable if we did not own the brands, and a discount rate. If current expectations for growth rates for sales and margins are not met, or other market factors and macroeconomic conditions were to change, then our indefinite-lived intangible assets could become significantly impaired. Our Progresso , Green Giant , EPIC , and Uncle Toby’s brands had experienced declining business performance, and we continue to monitor these businesses. For further information on goodwill and intangible assets, please refer to Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW We are a global packaged foods company. We develop distinctive value-added food products and market them under unique brand names. We work continuously to improve our core products and to create new products that meet consumers’ evolving needs and preferences. In addition, we build the equity of our brands over time with strong consumer-directed marketing, innovative new products, and effective merchandising. We believe our brand-building approach is the key to winning and sustaining leading share positions in markets around the globe. Our fundamental financial goal is to generate competitively differentiated returns for our shareholders over the long term. We believe achieving that goal requires us to generate a consistent balance of net sales growth, margin expansion, cash conversion, and cash return to shareholders over time. Our long-term growth objectives are to deliver the following performance on average over time: ● 2 to 3 percent annual growth in organic net sales; ● mid-single-digit annual growth in adjusted operating profit; ● mid- to high-single-digit annual growth in adjusted diluted earnings per share (EPS); ● free cash flow conversion of at least 95 percent of adjusted net earnings after tax; and ● cash return to shareholders of 80 to 90 percent of free cash flow, including an attractive dividend yield. We are executing our Accelerate strategy to drive sustainable, profitable gro wth and top-tier shareholder returns over the long term. The strategy focuses on four pillars to create competitive advantages and win: boldly building brands, relentlessly innovating, unleashing our scale, and being a force for good. We are prioritizing our core markets, global platforms, and local gem brands that have the best prospects for profitable growth and we are committed to reshaping our portfolio with strategic acquisitions and divestitures to further enhance our growth profile. We expect that changes in consumer behaviors driven by the COVID-19 pandemic will result in ongoing elevated consumer demand for food at home, relative to pre-pandemic levels. These changes include more time spent working from home and increased consumer appreciation for cooking and baking. We plan to capitalize on these opportunities, addressing evolving consumer needs through our leading brands, innovation, and advantaged capabilities to generate profitable growth. In fiscal 2022, we successfully adapted to the volatile operating environment, responding quickly to significant increases in input cost inflation and supply chain disruptions and keeping our brands available for our customers and consumers. As a result, we were able to grow organic net sales, adjusted operating profit, and adjusted diluted EPS ahead of our initial targets. We achieved each of the three priorities we established at the beginning of the year: We continued to compete effectively, including holding or growing market share in 70 percent of our global priority businesses. We generated organic net sales growth across each of our four operating segments, fueled by compelling brand building and innovation across our leading brands, and supported with strong levels of net price realization in response to significant input cost inflation. We successfully navigated the dynamic supply chain environment, which was characterized by steadily increasing input cost inflation, reaching 8 percent for the full year, and record levels of supply chain disruptions affecting our sourcing, manufacturing, and logistics operations. We leveraged our Strategic Revenue Management (SRM) capability to accelerate pricing actions in the face of increasing inflation, generating 7 points of positive organic net price realization and mix for the year. And we moved quickly to address supply chain disruptions and outpace our competition in terms of on-shelf availability for our brands. We executed our portfolio and organizational reshaping actions without disrupting our base business. We announced or closed seven different acquisitions and divestitures during the year, helping further upgrade the growth profile of our portfolio. And we successfully implemented significant changes to our organizational structure, including streamlining our North America Retail operating unit structure, realigning our North America Foodservice segment and shifting our U.S. convenience stores business into North America Retail, creating a new International segment and adjusting our go-to-market model across many global markets, and establishing a new Strategy & Growth organization tasked with advancing many aspects of our Accelerate strategy. Our consolidated net sales for fiscal 2022 rose 5 percent to $19.0 billion. On an organic basis, net sales increased 6 percent compared to year-ago levels. Operating profit of $3.5 billion increased 11 percent. Adjusted operating profit of $3.2 billion increased 2 percent on a constant-currency basis. Diluted EPS of $4.42 was up 17 percent compared to fiscal 2021 results. Adjusted diluted EPS of $3.94 18 increased 4 percent on a constant-currency basis (See the “Non-GAAP Measures” section below for a description of our use of measures not defined by generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP)). Net cash provided by operations totaled $3.3 billion in fiscal 2022 representing a conversion rate of 121 percent of net earnings, including earnings attributable to redeemable and noncontrolling interests. This cash generation supported capital investments totaling $569 million, and our resulting free cash flow was $2.7 billion at a conversion rate of 113 percent of adjusted net earnings, including earnings attributable to redeemable and noncontrolling interests. We returned cash to shareholders through dividends totaling $1.2 billion and net share repurchases totaling $715 million. Our ratio of net debt-to-operating cash flow was 3.3 in fiscal 2022, and our net debt-to-adjusted earnings before net interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization (net debt-to-adjusted EBITDA) ratio was 2.8 (See the “Non-GAAP Measures” section below for a description of our use of measures not defined by GAAP). A detailed review of our fiscal 2022 performance compared to fiscal 2021 appears below in the section titled “Fiscal 2022 Consolidated Results of Operations.” A detailed review of our fiscal 2021 performance compared to our fiscal 2020 performance is set forth in Part II, Item 7 of our Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended May 30, 2021 under the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Fiscal 2021 Results of Consolidated Operations,” which is incorporated herein by reference. In fiscal 2023, we expect to build on our positive momentum and continue to advance our Accelerate strategy. Our key priorities are to continue to compete effectively, invest in our brands and capabilities, and reshape our portfolio. We expect the largest factors impacting our performance in fiscal 2023 will be the economic health of consumers, the inflationary cost environment, and the frequency and severity of disruptions in the supply chain. Total input cost inflation is expected to be approximately 14 percent of cost of goods sold in fiscal 2023. We are addressing the inflationary environment with holistic margin management (HMM) cost savings expected to total approximately 3 to 4 percent of cost of goods sold and low-double-digit net price realization generated through our SRM capability. We are planning for volume elasticities to increase but remain below historical levels and supply chain disruptions to slowly moderate in fiscal 2023 compared to fiscal 2022 levels. Based on these assumptions, our key full-year fiscal 2023 targets are summarized below: ● Organic net sales are expected to increase 4 to 5 percent. ● Adjusted operating profit is expected to range between down 2 percent and up 1 percent in constant-currency from the base of $3.2 billion reported in fiscal 2022, including a 3-point net headwind from divestitures and acquisitions announced or closed in fiscal 2022. ● Adjusted diluted EPS are expected to range between flat and up 3 percent in constant-currency from the base of $3.94 earned in fiscal 2022, including a 3-point net headwind from divestitures and acquisitions announced or closed in fiscal 2022. ● Free cash flow conversion is expected to be at least 90 percent of adjusted after-tax earnings. See the “Non-GAAP Measures” section below for a description of our use of measures not defined by GAAP. Certain terms used throughout this report are defined in a glossary in Item 8 of this report. FISCAL 2022 CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS In fiscal 2022, net sales increased 5 percent compared to fiscal 2021 and organic net sales increased 6 percent compared to last year. Operating profit increased 11 percent to $3,476 million primarily driven by favorable net price realization and mix, gains on divestitures, net restructuring recoveries, and a decrease in certain selling, general, and administrative (SG&A) expenses, partially offset by higher input costs, lower net corporate investment activity, higher transaction and integration costs, and volume declines. Operating profit margin of 18.3 percent increased 100 basis points. Adjusted operating profit of $3,213 million increased 2 percent on a constant-currency basis, primarily driven by a decrease in certain SG&A expenses. Adjusted operating profit margin decreased 50 basis points to 16.9 percent. Diluted earnings per share of $4.42 increased 17 percent compared to fiscal 2021. Adjusted diluted earnings per share of $3.94 increased 4 percent on a constant-currency basis (see the “Non-GAAP Measures” section below for a description of our use of measures not defined by GAAP). 19 A summary of our consolidated financial results for fiscal 2022 follows: Fiscal 2022 In millions, except per share Fiscal 2022 vs. Fiscal 2021 Percent of Net Sales Constant- Currency Growth (a) Net sales $ 18,992.8 5 % Operating profit 3,475.8 11 % 18.3 % Net earnings attributable to General Mills 2,707.3 16 % Diluted earnings per share $ 4.42 17 % Organic net sales growth rate (a) 6 % Adjusted operating profit (a) 3,213.3 2 % 16.9 % 2 % Adjusted diluted earnings per share (a) $ 3.94 4 % 4 % (a) See the "Non-GAAP Measures" section below for our use of measures not defined by GAAP. Consolidated net sales were as follows: Fiscal 2022 Fiscal 2022 vs. Fiscal 2021 Fiscal 2021 Net sales (in millions) $ 18,992.8 5 % $ 18,127.0 Contributions from volume growth (a) (5) pts Net price realization and mix 10 pts Foreign currency exchange Flat Note: Table may not foot due to rounding (a) Measured in tons based on the stated weight of our product shipments. The 5 percent increase in net sales in fiscal 2022 reflects favorable net price realization and mix, partially offset by a decrease in contributions from volume growth. Components of organic net sales growth are shown in the following table: Fiscal 2022 vs. Fiscal 2021 Contributions from organic volume growth (a) (1) pt Organic net price realization and mix 7 pts Organic net sales growth 6 pts Foreign currency exchange Flat Acquisition and divestitures (1) pt Net sales growth 5 pts Note: Table may not foot due to rounding (a) Measured in tons based on the stated weight of our product shipments. Organic net sales in fiscal 2022 increased 6 percent compared to fiscal 2021, driven by favorable organic net price realization and mix, partially offset by a decrease in contributions from organic volume growth. Cost of sales increased $912 million in fiscal 2022 to $12,591 million. The increase was primarily driven by a $1,514 million increase attributable to product rate and mix, partially offset by a $608 million decrease due to lower volume. We recorded a $133 million net decrease in cost of sales related to mark-to-market valuation of certain commodity positions and grain inventories in fiscal 2022, compared to a net decrease of $139 million in fiscal 2021 (please see Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for additional information). Gross margin decreased 1 percent in fiscal 2022 versus fiscal 2021. Gross margin as a percent of net sales decreased 190 basis points to 33.7 percent compared to fiscal 2021. SG&A expenses increased $67 million to $3,147 million in fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021. The increase in SG&A expenses primarily reflects lower net corporate investment activity and higher transaction costs, partially offset by lower media and advertising expenses and other administrative costs. SG&A expenses as a percent of net sales in fiscal 2022 decreased 40 basis points compared to fiscal 2021. 20 Divestitures gain totaled $194 million in fiscal 2022 due to the sale of our interests in Yoplait SAS, Yoplait Marques SNC, and Liberté Marques Sàrl and our European dough businesses (please refer to Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part I, Item 1 of this report). Divestiture loss totaled $54 million in fiscal 2021 due to the sale of our Laticínios Carolina business in Brazil. Restructuring, impairment, and other exit costs (recoveries) totaled $26 million of net recoveries in fiscal 2022 compared to $170 million of charges in fiscal 2021. In fiscal 2022, we approved restructuring actions in the International segment to drive efficiencies in manufacturing and logistics operations , and as a result, we recorded $12 million of charges in fiscal 2022. We recorded a net recovery of $38 million in fiscal 2022, which includes a $34 million reduction to our restructuring reserves primarily related to severance charges. In fiscal 2021, we approved restructuring actions designed to better align our organizational structure and resources with strategic initiatives and actions related to route-to-market and supply chain optimization. Please see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for additional information. Benefit plan non-service income totaled $113 million in fiscal 2022 compared to $133 million in fiscal 2021, primarily reflecting higher amortization of losses (please see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for additional information). Interest, net for fiscal 2022 totaled $380 million, $40 million lower than fiscal 2021, primarily driven by lower average debt balances. Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2022 was 18.3 percent compared to 22.0 percent in fiscal 2021. The 3.7 percentage point decrease was primarily driven by a change in the valuation allowance on our capital loss carryforwards, certain non -taxable components of the divestiture gains, and favorable changes in earnings mix by jurisdiction. Our adjusted effective tax rate was 20.9 percent in fiscal 2022 compared to 21.1 percent in fiscal 2021 (see the “Non-GAAP Measures” section below for a description of our use of measures not defined by GAAP). After-tax earnings from joint ventures decreased 5 percent to $112 million in fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021, primarily driven by higher input costs and lower net sales at CPW, partially offset by lower SG&A expenses at CPW and higher net sales at HDJ. On a constant-currency basis, after-tax earnings from joint ventures decreased 3 percent (see the “Non-GAAP Measures” section below for a description of our use of measures not defined by GAAP). The components of our joint ventures’ net sales growth are shown in the following table: Fiscal 2022 vs. Fiscal 2021 CPW HDJ Total Contributions from volume growth (a) (3) pts 8 pts Net price realization and mix 2 pts 1 pt Net sales growth in constant currency (1) pt 9 pts 1 pt Foreign currency exchange (2) pts (8) pts (3) pts Net sales growth (3) pts 1 pt (2) pts Note: Table may not foot due to rounding (a) Measured in tons based on the stated weight of our product shipments Net earnings attributable to redeemable and noncontrolling interests increased to $28 million in fiscal 2022 compared to $6 million in fiscal 2021, primarily due to the loss on sale of the Laticínios Carolina business in Brazil in fiscal 2021, partially offset by the sale of our interests in Yoplait SAS, Yoplait Marques SNC, and Liberté Marques Sàrl in fiscal 2022. Average diluted shares outstanding decreased by 6 million in fiscal 2022 from fiscal 2021 primarily due to share repurchase activity. RESULTS OF SEGMENT OPERATIONS Our businesses are organized into four operating segments: North America Retail; International; Pet, and North America Foodservice. In fiscal 2022, we announced a new organization structure to streamline our global operations. As a result of this global reorganization, beginning in the third quarter of fiscal 2022, we reported results for our four operating segments as follows: North America Retail; International; Pet; and North America Foodservice. We have restated our net sales by segment and segment operating profit amounts to reflect our new operating segments. These segment changes had no effect on previously reported consolidated net sales, operating profit, net earnings attributable to General Mills, or earnings per share. Please refer to Note 17 of the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part 8 of this report for a description of our operating segments. Our North America Retail operating segment includes convenience store businesses from our former Convenience Stores & Foodservice segment. Within our North America Retail operating segment, our former U.S. Cereal operating unit and U.S. Yogurt operating unit have been combined into the U.S. Morning Foods operating unit. Additionally, the U.S. Meals & Baking Solutions 21 operating unit combines the former U.S. Meals & Baking operating unit with certain businesses from the U.S. Snacks operating unit. The Canada operating unit excludes Canada foodservice businesses which are now included in our North America Foodservice operating segment. The resulting North America Foodservice operating segment exclusively includes our foodservice businesses. Our International operating segment combines our former Europe & Australia and Asia & Latin America operating segments. Our Pet operating segment is unchanged. The following tables provide the dollar amount and percentage of net sales and operating profit from each segment for fiscal 2022 and fiscal 2021: Fiscal Year 2022 2021 In Millions Dollars Percent of Total Dollars Percent of Total Net Sales North America Retail $ 11,572.0 61 % $ 11,250.0 62 % International 3,315.7 17 3,656.8 20 Pet 2,259.4 12 1,732.4 10 North America Foodservice 1,845.7 10 1,487.8 8 Total $ 18,992.8 100 % $ 18,127.0 100 % Segment Operating Profit North America Retail $ 2,699.7 74 % $ 2,725.9 75 % International 232.0 6 236.6 7 Pet 470.6 13 415.0 12 North America Foodservice 255.5 7 203.3 6 Total $ 3,657.8 100 % $ 3,580.8 100 % Segment operating profit as reviewed by our executive management excludes unallocated corporate items, net gain or loss on divestitures, and restructuring, impairment, and other exit costs that are centrally managed. NORTH AMERICA RETAIL SEGMENT Our North America Retail operating segment reflects business with a wide variety of grocery stores, mass merchandisers, membership stores, natural food chains, drug, dollar and discount chains, convenience stores, and e-commerce grocery providers. Our product categories in this business segment are ready-to-eat cereals, refrigerated yogurt, soup, meal kits, refrigerated and frozen dough products, dessert and baking mixes, frozen pizza and pizza snacks, snack bars, fruit snacks, savory snacks, and a wide variety of organic products including ready-to-eat cereal, frozen and shelf-stable vegetables, meal kits, fruit snacks, snack bars, and refrigerated yogurt. North America Retail net sales were as follows: Fiscal 2022 Fiscal 2022 vs. 2021 Percentage Change Fiscal 2021 Net sales (in millions) $ 11,572.0 3 % $ 11,250.0 Contributions from volume growth (a) (6) pts Net price realization and mix 9 pts Foreign currency exchange Flat Note: Table may not foot due to rounding. (a) Measured in tons based on the stated weight of our product shipments. The 3 percent increase in North America Retail net sales for fiscal 2022 was driven by favorable net price realization and mix, partially offset by a decrease in contributions from volume growth. 22 The components of North America Retail organic net sales growth are shown in the following table: Fiscal 2022 vs. 2021 Percentage Change Contributions from organic volume growth (a) (6) pts Organic net price realization and mix 9 pts Organic net sales growth 3 pts Foreign currency exchange Flat Net sales growth 3 pts Note: Table may not foot due to rounding. (a) Measured in tons based on the stated weight of our product shipments. North America Retail organic net sales increased 3 percent in fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021, driven by favorable organic net price realization and mix, partially offset by a decrease in contributions from organic volume growth. Net sales for our North America Retail operating units are shown in the following table: In Millions Fiscal 2022 Fiscal 2022 vs. 2021 Percentage Change Fiscal 2021 U.S. Meals & Baking Solutions $ 4,023.8 Flat $ 4,042.2 U.S. Morning Foods 3,370.9 2 % 3,314.0 U.S. Snacks 3,191.4 9 % 2,940.5 Canada (a) 985.9 3 % 953.3 Total $ 11,572.0 3 % $ 11,250.0 (a) On a constant currency basis, Canada operating unit net sales increased 1 percent in fiscal 2022. See the “Non-GAAP Measures” section below for our use of this measure not defined by GAAP. Segment operating profit decreased 1 percent to $2,700 million in fiscal 2022 compared to $2,726 million in fiscal 2021, primarily driven by higher input costs and a decrease in contributions from volume growth, partially offset by favorable net price realization and mix and a decrease in certain SG&A expenses. Segment operating profit decreased 1 percent on a constant-currency basis in fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021 (see the “Non-GAAP Measures” section below for our use of this measure not defined by GAAP). INTERNATIONAL SEGMENT Our International operating segment reflects retail and foodservice businesses outside of the United States and Canada. Our product categories include super-premium ice cream and frozen desserts, meal kits, salty snacks, snack bars, dessert and baking mixes, and shelf stable vegetables. International net sales were as follows: Fiscal 2022 Fiscal 2022 vs. 2021 Percentage Change Fiscal 2021 Net sales (in millions) $ 3,315.7 (9) % $ 3,656.8 Contributions from volume growth (a) (19) pts Net price realization and mix 9 pts Foreign currency exchange 1 pt Note: Table may not foot due to rounding. (a) Measured in tons based on the stated weight of our product shipments. The 9 percent decrease in International net sales in fiscal 2022 was driven by a decrease in contributions from volume growth, including the impact of volume declines from divestitures, partially offset by favorable net price realization and mix and favorable foreign currency exchange. 23 The components of International organic net sales growth are shown in the following table: Fiscal 2022 vs. 2021 Percentage Change Contributions from organic volume growth (a) Flat Organic net price realization and mix 2 pts Organic net sales growth 2 pts Foreign currency exchange 1 pt Divestitures (b) (12) pts Net sales growth (9) pts Note: Table may not foot due to rounding (a) Measured in tons based on the stated weight of our product shipments. (b) Divestitures include the impact of the sale of our interests in Yoplait SAS, Yoplait Marques SNC, and Liberté Marques Sàrl and our European dough businesses in fiscal 2022 and the sale of the Laticínios Carolina business in Brazil in fiscal 2021. Please see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this report. The 2 percent increase in International organic net sales growth in fiscal 2022 was driven by favorable organic net price realization and mix. Segment operating profit decreased 2 percent to $232 million in fiscal 2022 compared to $237 million in 2021, primarily driven by higher input costs and a decrease in contributions from volume growth, including the impact of volume declines from divestitures, partially offset by favorable net price realization and mix and a decrease in SG&A expenses. Segment operating profit decreased 4 percent on a constant-currency basis in fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021 (see the “Non-GAAP Measures” section below for our use of this measure not defined by GAAP). PET SEGMENT Our Pet operating segment includes pet food products sold primarily in the United States and Canada in national pet superstore chains, e-commerce retailers, grocery stores, regional pet store chains, mass merchandisers, and veterinary clinics and hospitals. Our product categories include dog and cat food (dry foods, wet foods, and treats) made with whole meats, fruits, and vegetables and other high- quality natural ingredients. Our tailored pet product offerings address specific dietary, lifestyle, and life-stage needs and span different product types, diet types, breed sizes for dogs, lifestages, flavors, product functions, and textures and cuts for wet foods. Pet net sales were as follows: Fiscal 2022 Fiscal 2022 vs. 2021 Percentage Change Fiscal 2021 Net sales (in millions) $ 2,259.4 30 % $ 1,732.4 Contributions from volume growth (a) 11 pts Net price realization and mix 19 pts Foreign currency exchange Flat Note: Table may not foot due to rounding. (a) Measured in tons based on the stated weight of our product shipments. Pet net sales increased 30 percent in fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021, driven by favorable net price realization and mix and an increase in contributions from volume growth, including incremental volume from the acquisition of Tyson Foods’ pet treats business. 24 The components of Pet organic net sales growth are shown in the following table: Fiscal 2022 vs. 2021 Percentage Change Contributions from organic volume growth (a) 8 pts Organic net price realization and mix 10 pts Organic net sales growth 18 pts Foreign currency exchange Flat Acquisition (b) 13 pts Net sales growth 30 pts Note: Table may not foot due to rounding. (a) Measured in tons based on the stated weight of our product shipments. (b) Acquisition of Tyson Foods’ pet treats business in fiscal 2022. Please see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this report. The 18 percent increase in Pet organic net sales growth in fiscal 2022 was driven by favorable organic net price realization and mix and an increase in contributions from organic volume growth. Pet operating profit increased 13 percent to $471 million in fiscal 2022, compared to $415 million in fiscal 2021, primarily driven by favorable net price realization and mix and an increase in contributions from volume growth, including incremental volume from the acquisition of Tyson Foods’ pet treats business, partially offset by higher input costs and an increase in SG&A expenses. Segment operating profit increased 13 percent on a constant-currency basis in fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021 (see the “Non-GAAP Measures” section below for our use of this measure not defined by GAAP). NORTH AMERICA FOODSERVICE SEGMENT Our major product categories in our North America Foodservice operating segment are ready-to-eat cereals, snacks, refrigerated yogurt, frozen meals, unbaked and fully baked frozen dough products, baking mixes, and bakery flour. Many products we sell are branded to the consumer and nearly all are branded to our customers. We sell to distributors and operators in many customer channels including foodservice, vending, and supermarket bakeries. North America Foodservice net sales were as follows: Fiscal 2022 Fiscal 2022 vs. 2021 Percentage Change Fiscal 2021 Net sales (in millions) $ 1,845.7 24 % $ 1,487.8 Contributions from volume growth (a) 5 pts Net price realization and mix 19 pts Foreign currency exchange Flat Note: Table may not foot due to rounding. (a) Measured in tons based on the stated weight of our product shipments. North America Foodservice net sales increased 24 percent in fiscal 2022, driven by favorable price realization and mix, including market index pricing on bakery flour, and an increase in contributions from volume growth. The components of North America Foodservice organic net sales growth are shown in the following table: Fiscal 2022 vs. 2021 Percentage Change Contributions from organic volume growth (a) 5 pts Organic net price realization and mix 19 pts Organic net sales growth 24 pts Foreign currency exchange Flat Net sales growth 24 pts Note: Table may not foot due to rounding (a) Measured in tons based on the standard weight of our product shipments. 25 The 24 percent increase in North America Foodservice organic net sales growth in fiscal 2022 was driven by favorable organic net price realization and mix, including market index pricing on bakery flour, and an increase in contributions from organic volume growth. Segment operating profit increased 26 percent to $256 million in fiscal 2022, compared to $203 million in fiscal 2021, primarily driven by favorable net price realization and mix and an increase in contributions from volume growth, partially offset by higher input costs. Segment operating profit increased 26 percent on a constant-currency basis in fiscal 2022 compared to fiscal 2021 (see the “Non-GAAP Measures” section below for our use of this measure not defined by GAAP). UNALLOCATED CORPORATE ITEMS Unallocated corporate items include corporate overhead expenses, variances to planned domestic employee benefits and incentives, certain charitable contributions, restructuring initiative project-related costs, gains and losses on corporate investments, and other items that are not part of our measurement of segment operating performance. These include gains and losses arising from the revaluation of certain grain inventories and gains and losses from mark-to-market valuation of certain commodity positions until passed back to our operating segments. These items affecting operating profit are centrally managed at the corporate level and are excluded from the measure of segment profitability reviewed by executive management. Under our supply chain organization, our manufacturing, warehouse, and distribution activities are substantially integrated across our operations in order to maximize efficiency and productivity. As a result, fixed assets and depreciation and amortization expenses are neither maintained nor available by operating segment. In fiscal 2022, unallocated corporate expense increased $191 million to $403 million compared to $212 million last year. In fiscal 2022, we recorded a $133 million net decrease in expense related to mark-to-market valuation of certain commodity positions and grain inventories, compared to a $139 million net decrease in expense in the prior year. In fiscal 2022, we recorded $15 million of net losses related to the sale of corporate investments and valuation adjustments, compared to $76 million of net gains in fiscal 2021. We recorded $22 million of integration costs related to our acquisition of Tyson Foods’ pet treats business and $73 million of transaction costs primarily related to the sale of our interests in Yoplait SAS, Yoplait Marques SNC, and Liberté Marques Sàrl, the sale of our European dough businesses, the definitive agreements to sell our Helper main meals and Suddenly Salad side dishes business, and the definitive agreement to acquire TNT Crust in fiscal 2022, compared to $10 million of transaction costs in fiscal 2021. In addition, we recorded a $22 million recovery related to a Brazil indirect tax item in fiscal 2022 compared to a $9 million recovery in fiscal 2021. We recorded a $13 million insurance recovery in fiscal 2022. In fiscal 2021, we recorded a $4 million favorable adjustment related to a product recall in fiscal 2020 in our international Green Giant business. IMPACT OF INFLATION We experienced broad based global input cost inflation of 8 percent in fiscal 2022 and 4 percent in fiscal 202 1. We expect input cost inflation of approximately 14 percent in fiscal 2023. We attempt to minimize the effects of inflation through HMM, SRM, planning, and operating practices. Our risk management practices are discussed in Item 7A of this report. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES The primary source of our liquidity is cash flow from operations. Over the most recent two-year period, our operations have generated $6.3 billion in cash. A substantial portion of this operating cash flow has been returned to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. We also use cash from operations to fund our capital expenditures, acquisitions, and debt service. We typically use a combination of cash, notes payable, and long-term debt, and occasionally issue shares of common stock, to finance significant acquisitions. As of May 29, 2022, we had $523 million of cash and cash equivalents held in foreign jurisdictions. In anticipation of repatriating funds from foreign jurisdictions, we record local country withholding taxes on our international earnings, as applicable. We may repatriate our cash and cash equivalents held by our foreign subsidiaries without such funds being subject to further U.S. income tax liability. Earnings prior to fiscal 2018 from our foreign subsidiaries remain permanently reinvested in those jurisdictions. 26 Cash Flows from Operations Fiscal Year In Millions 2022 2021 Net earnings, including earnings attributable to redeemable and noncontrolling interests $ 2,735.0 $ 2,346.0 Depreciation and amortization 570.3 601.3 After-tax earnings from joint ventures (111.7) (117.7) Distributions of earnings from joint ventures 107.5 95.2 Stock-based compensation 98.7 89.9 Deferred income taxes 62.2 118.8 Pension and other postretirement benefit plan contributions (31.3) (33.4) Pension and other postretirement benefit plan costs (30.1) (33.6) Divestitures (gain) loss (194.1) 53.5 Restructuring, impairment, and other exit (recoveries) costs (117.1) 150.9 Changes in current assets and liabilities, excluding the effects of acquisition and divestitures 277.4 (155.9) Other, net (50.7) (131.8) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 3,316.1 $ 2,983.2 During fiscal 2022, cash provided by operations was $3,316 million compared to $2,983 million in the same period last year. The $333 million increase was primarily driven by a $433 million change in current assets and liabilities and a $389 million increase in net earnings, partially offset by a $268 million change in restructuring costs and a $248 million change in divestitures gain. The $433 million change in current assets and liabilities was primarily driven by a $269 million change in inventories and a $238 million change in other current liabilities, primarily driven by changes in income taxes payable and the fair value of certain currency and commodity derivatives. These were partially offset by a $194 million change in receivables. We strive to grow core working capital at or below the rate of growth in our net sales. For fiscal 2022, core working capital decreased 117 percent, compared to a net sales increase of 5 percent. As of May 29, 2022, our core working capital balance was a net liability of $423 million compared to a net liability of $194 million in fiscal 2021. The $229 million change was primarily due to an increase in accounts payable in fiscal 2022 primarily due to input cost inflation. Cash Flows from Investing Activities Fiscal Year In Millions 2022 2021 Purchases of land, buildings, and equipment $ (568.7) $ (530.8) Acquisitions, net of cash acquired (1,201.3) - Investments in affiliates, net 15.4 15.5 Proceeds from disposal of land, buildings, and equipment 3.3 2.7 Proceeds from divestitures, net of cash divested 74.1 2.9 Other, net (13.5) (3.1) Net cash used by investing activities $ (1,690.7) $ (512.8) In fiscal 2022, we used $1,691 million of cash through investing activities compared to $513 million in fiscal 2021. We invested $569 million in land, buildings, and equipment in fiscal 2022, an increase of $38 million from fiscal 2021. During fiscal 2022, we acquired Tyson Foods’ pet treats business for an aggregate purchase price of $1.2 billion. During fiscal 2022, we sold our interests in Yoplait SAS, Yoplait Marques SNC, and Liberté Marques Sàrl for cash proceeds of $32 million, net of cash divested as part of the sale. We also completed the sale of our European dough businesses in fiscal 2022 for cash proceeds of $42 million. We expect capital expenditures to be approximately 4.0 percent of reported net sales in fiscal 2023. These expenditures will fund initiatives that are expected to fuel growth, support innovative products, and continue HMM initiatives throughout the supply chain. 27 Cash Flows from Financing Activities Fiscal Year In Millions 2022 2021 Change in notes payable $ 551.4 $ 71.7 Issuance of long-term debt 2,203.7 1,576.5 Payment of long-term debt (3,140.9) (2,609.0) Debt exchange participation incentive cash payment - (201.4) Proceeds from common stock issued on exercised options 161.7 74.3 Purchases of common stock for treasury (876.8) (301.4) Dividends paid (1,244.5) (1,246.4) Distributions to redeemable and noncontrolling interest holders (129.8) (48.9) Other, net (28.0) (30.9) Net cash used by financing activities $ (2,503.2) $ (2,715.5) Financing activities used $2.5 billion of cash in fiscal 2022 compared to $2.7 billion in fiscal 2021. We had $386 million of net debt repayments in fiscal 2022 compared to $961 million of net debt repayments in fiscal 2021. In addition, we paid a participation incentive of $201 million related to a debt exchange in fiscal 2021. For more information on our debt issuances and payments, please refer to Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report. During fiscal 2022, we received $162 million of net proceeds from common stock issued on exercised options compared to $74 million in fiscal 2021. During fiscal 2022, we repurchased 14 million shares of our common stock for $877 million. During fiscal 2021, we repurchased 5 million shares of our common stock for $301 million. Dividends paid in fiscal 2022 totaled $1,244 million, or $2.04 per share. Dividends paid in fiscal 2021 totaled $1,246 million, or $2.02 per share. Selected Cash Flows from Joint Ventures Selected cash flows from our joint ventures are set forth in the following table: Fiscal Year Inflow (Outflow), in Millions 2022 2021 Investments in affiliates, net $ 15.4 $ 15.5 Dividends received 107.5 95.2 The following table details the fee-paid committed and uncommitted credit lines we had available as of May 29, 2022: In Billions Facility Amount Borrowed Amount Credit facility expiring: April 2026 $ 2.7 $ - Total committed credit facilities 2.7 - Uncommitted credit facilities 0.6 0.1 Total committed and uncommitted credit facilities $ 3.3 $ 0.1 To ensure availability of funds, we maintain bank credit lines and have commercial paper programs available to us in the United States and Europe. We also have uncommitted and asset-backed credit lines that support our foreign operations. We have material contractual obligations that arise in the normal course of business and we believe that cash flows from operations will be adequate to meet our liquidity and capital needs for at least the next 12 months. Certain of our long-term debt agreements, our credit facilities, and our noncontrolling interests contain restrictive covenants. As of May 29, 2022, we were in compliance with all of these covenants. 28 We have $1,674 million of long-term debt maturing in the next 12 months that is classified as current, including $500 million of 2.60 percent fixed-rate notes due October 12, 2022, $100 million of 7.47 percent fixed-rate notes due October 15, 2022, €250 million of 0.00 percent fixed-rate notes due November 11, 2022, €500 million of 1.00 percent fixed-rate notes due April 27, 2023, and €250 million of floating rate notes due May 16, 2023. We believe that cash flows from operations, together with available short- and long- term debt financing, will be adequate to meet our liquidity and capital needs for at least the next 12 months. As of May 29, 2022, our total debt, including the impact of derivative instruments designated as hedges, was 77 percent in fixed-rate and 23 percent in floating-rate instruments, compared to 88 percent in fixed-rate and 12 percent in floating-rate instruments on May 30, 2021. Our net debt to operating cash flow ratio decreased to 3.3 in fiscal 2022 from 3.7 in fiscal 2021, primarily driven by an increase in cash provided by operations. Our net debt -to-adjusted EBITDA ratio declined to 2.8 in fiscal 2022 from 2.9 in fiscal 2021 (see the “Non-GAAP Measures” section below for our use of this measure not defined by GAAP). The third-party holder of the General Mills Cereals, LLC (GMC) Class A Interests receives quarterly preferred distributions from available net income based on the application of a floating preferred return rate to the holder’s capital account balance established in the most recent mark-to-market valuation (currently $252 million). On June 1, 2021, the floating preferred return rate on GMC’s Class A Interests was reset to the sum of three-month LIBOR plus 160 basis points. The preferred return rate is adjusted every three years through a negotiated agreement with the Class A Interest holder or through a remarketing auction. We have an option to purchase the Class A Interests for consideration equal to the then current capital account value, plus any unpaid preferred return and the prescribed make-whole amount. If we purchase these interests, any change in the third-party holder’s capital account from its original value will be charged directly to retained earnings and will increase or decrease the net earnings used to calculate EPS in that period. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES For a complete description of our significant accounting policies, please see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report. Our critical accounting estimates are those that have a meaningful impact on the reporting of our financial condition and results of operations. These estimates include our accounting for revenue recognition, valuation of long-lived assets, intangible assets, stock-based compensation, income taxes, and defined benefit pension, other postretirement benefit, and postemployment benefit plans . Considerations related to the COVID-19 pandemic The continuing impact that the recent COVID-19 pandemic will have on our consolidated results of operations is uncertain. We saw increased orders from retail customers across all geographies in response to increased consumer demand for food at home. We also experienced a COVID-19-related decrease in consumer traffic in away-from-home food outlets. In fiscal 2023, we expect at-home food demand will decline year over year across most of our core markets though will remain above pre-pandemic levels. Conversely, we expect away-from home food demand to continue to recover, though not fully to pre-pandemic levels. We expect one of the largest factors impacting our performance will be relative balance of at-home versus away-from-home consumer food demand, primarily driven by the level of virus control in markets around the world, which remains uncertain. We have considered the potential impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic in our significant accounting estimates as of May 29, 2022, and will continue to evaluate the nature and extent of the impact to our business and consolidated results of operations. Revenue Recognition Our revenues are reported net of variable consideration and consideration payable to our customers, including trade promotion, consumer coupon redemption, and other reductions to the transaction price, including estimated allowances for returns, unsalable product, and prompt pay discounts. Trade promotions are recorded using significant judgment of estimated participation and performance levels for offered programs at the time of sale. Differences between the estimated and actual reduction to the transaction price are recognized as a change in estimate in a subsequent period. Our accrued trade and coupon promotion liabilities were $420 million as of May 29, 2022, and $508 million as of May 30, 2021. Because these amounts are significant, if our estimates are inaccurate we would have to make adjustments in subsequent periods that could have a significant effect on our results of operations. Valuation of Long-Lived Assets We estimate the useful lives of long -lived assets and make estimates concerning undiscounted cash flows to review for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset (or asset group) may not be recoverable. Fair value is measured using discounted cash flows or independent appraisals, as appropriate. Intangible Assets Goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets are not subject to amortization and are tested for impairment annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that impairment may have occurred. Our estimates of fair value for goodwill impairment testing are determined based on a discounted cash flow model. We use inputs from our long-range planning process to 29 determine growth rates for sales and profits. We also make estimates of discount rates, perpetuity growth assumptions, market comparables, and other factors. We evaluate the useful lives of our other intangible assets, mainly brands, to determine if they are finite or indefinite-lived. Reaching a determination on useful life requires significant judgments and assumptions regarding the future effects of obsolescence, demand, competition, other economic factors (such as the stability of the industry, known technological advances, legislative action that results in an uncertain or changing regulatory environment, and expected changes in distribution channels), the level of required maintenance expenditures, and the expected lives of other related groups of assets. Intangible assets that are deemed to have finite lives are amortized on a straight-line basis over their useful lives, generally ranging from 4 to 30 years. Our estimate of the fair value of our brand assets is based on a discounted cash flow model using inputs which include projected revenues from our long-range plan, assumed royalty rates that could be payable if we did not own the brands, and a discount rate. As of May 29, 2022, we had $21 billion of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets. While we currently believe that the fair value of each intangible exceeds its carrying value and that those intangibles will contribute indefinitely to our cash flows, materially different assumptions regarding future performance of our businesses or a different weighted-average cost of capital could result in material impairment losses and amortization expense. We performed our fiscal 2022 assessment of our intangible assets as of the first day of the second quarter of fiscal 2022, and we determined there was no impairment of our intangible assets as their related fair values were substantially in excess of the carrying values. During the third quarter of fiscal 2022, we changed our organizational and management structure to streamline our global operations. As a result of these changes, we reassessed our operating segments as well as our reporting units. Under our new organizational structure, our chief operating decision maker assesses performance and makes decisions about resources to be allocated to our segments at the North America Retail, International, Pet, and North America Foodservice operating segment level. Please see Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for additional information on our operating segments. The organizational changes also resulted in changes in certain reporting units, one level below the segment level, and were considered a triggering event that required a goodwill impairment test during the third quarter of fiscal 2022. We determined there was no impairment of the goodwill of the impacted reporting units as their related fair values were substantially in excess of the carrying values. Stock-based Compensation The valuation of stock options is a significant accounting estimate that requires us to use judgments and assumptions that are likely to have a material impact on our financial statements. Annually, we make predictive assumptions regarding future stock price volatility, employee exercise behavior, dividend yield, and the forfeiture rate. For more information on these assumptions, please see Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report. The estimated fair values of stock options granted and the assumptions used for the Black-Scholes option-pricing model were as follows: Fiscal Year 2022 2021 2020 Estimated fair values of stock options granted $ 8.77 $ 8.03 $ 7.10 Assumptions: Risk-free interest rate 1.5 % 0.7 % 2.0 % Expected term 8.5 years 8.5 years 8.5 years Expected volatility 20.2 % 19.5 % 17.4 % Dividend yield 3.4 % 3.3 % 3.6 % The risk-free interest rate for periods during the expected term of the options is based on the U.S. Treasury zero-coupon yield curve in effect at the time of grant. An increase in the expected term by 1 year, leaving all other assumptions constant, would decrease the grant date fair value by less than 1 percent. If all other assumptions are held constant, a one percentage point increase in our fiscal 2022 volatility assumption would increase the grant date fair value of our fiscal 2022 option awards by 7 percent. To the extent that actual outcomes differ from our assumptions, we are not required to true up grant-date fair value-based expense to final intrinsic values. Historical data has a significant bearing on our forward-looking assumptions. Significant variances between actual and predicted experience could lead to prospective revisions in our assumptions, which could then significantly impact the year- over-year comparability of stock-based compensation expense. Any corporate income tax benefit realized upon exercise or vesting of an award in excess of that previously recognized in earnings (referred to as a windfall tax benefit) is presented in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows as an operating cash flow. The actual 30 impact on future years’ cash flows will depend, in part, on the volume of employee stock option exercises during a particular year and the relationship between the exercise-date market value of the underlying stock and the original grant-date fair value previously determined for financial reporting purposes. Realized windfall tax benefits and shortfall tax deficiencies related to the exercise or vesting of stock-based awards are recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. Because employee stock option exercise behavior is not within our control, it is possible that significantly different reported results could occur if different assumptions or conditions were to prevail. Income Taxes We apply a more-likely-than-not threshold to the recognition and derecognition of uncertain tax positions. Accordingly, we recognize the amount of tax benefit that has a greater than 50 percent likelihood of being ultimately realized upon settlement. Future changes in judgment related to the expected ultimate resolution of uncertain tax positions will affect earnings in the period of such change. For more information on income taxes, please see Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report. Defined Benefit Pension, Other Postretirement Benefit, and Postemployment Benefit Plans We have defined benefit pension plans covering many employees in the United States, Canada, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. We also sponsor plans that provide health care benefits to many of our retirees in the United States, Canada, and Brazil. Under certain circumstances, we also provide accruable benefits, primarily severance, to former and inactive employees in the United States, Canada, and Mexico. Please see Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report for a description of our defined benefit pension, other postretirement benefit, and postemployment benefit plans. We recognize benefits provided during retirement or following employment over the plan participants’ active working lives. Accordingly, we make various assumptions to predict and measure costs and obligations many years prior to the settlement of our obligations. Assumptions that require significant management judgment and have a material impact on the measurement of our net periodic benefit expense or income and accumulated benefit obligations include the long-term rates of return on plan assets, the interest rates used to discount the obligations for our benefit plans, and health care cost trend rates. Expected Rate of Return on Plan Assets Our expected rate of return on plan assets is determined by our asset allocation, our historical long-term investment performance, our estimate of future long-term returns by asset class (using input from our actuaries, investment services, and investment managers), and long-term inflation assumptions. We review this assumption annually for each plan; however, our annual investment performance for one particular year does not, by itself, significantly influence our evaluation. Our historical investment returns (compound annual growth rates) for our United States defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plan assets were an 8.4 percent loss in the 1 year period ended May 29, 2022 and returns of 6.4 percent, 8.2 percent, 6.2 percent, and 8.0 percent for the 5, 10, 15, and 20 year periods ended May 29, 2022. On a weighted-average basis, the expected rate of return for all defined benefit plans was 5.85 percent for fiscal 2022, 5.72 percent for fiscal 2021, and 6.95 percent for fiscal 2020. For fiscal 2023, we increased our weighted-average expected rate of return on plan assets for our principal defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans in the United States to 6.75 percent due to higher prospective long-term asset returns primarily on fixed income investments. Lowering the expected long-term rate of return on assets by 100 basis points would increase our net pension and postretirement expense by $66 million for fiscal 2023. A market-related valuation basis is used to reduce year-to-year expense volatility. The market- related valuation recognizes certain investment gains or losses over a five-year period from the year in which they occur. Investment gains or losses for this purpose are the difference between the expected return calculated using the market-related value of assets and the actual return based on the market-related value of assets. Our outside actuaries perform these calculations as part of our determination of annual expense or income. Discount Rates We estimate the service and interest cost components of the net periodic benefit expense for our United States and most of our international defined benefit pension, other postretirement benefit, and postemployment benefit plans utilizing a full yield curve approach by applying the specific spot rates along the yield curve used to determine the benefit obligation to the relevant projected cash flows. Our discount rate assumptions are determined annually as of May 31 for our defined benefit pension, other postretirement benefit, and postemployment benefit plan obligations. We work with our outside actuaries to determine the timing and amount of expected future cash outflows to plan participants and, using the Aa Above Median corporate bond yield, to develop a forward interest rate curve, including a margin to that index based on our credit risk. This forward interest rate curve is applied to our expected future cash outflows to determine our discount rate assumptions. 31 Our weighted-average discount rates were as follows: Defined Benefit Pension Plans Other Postretirement Benefit Plans Postemployment Benefit Plans Effective rate for fiscal 2023 service costs 4.53 % 4.41 % 3.67 % Effective rate for fiscal 2023 interest costs 4.01 % 3.80 % 3.34 % Obligations as of May 31, 2022 4.39 % 4.36 % 3.62 % Effective rate for fiscal 2022 service costs 3.53 % 3.34 % 2.46 % Effective rate for fiscal 2022 interest costs 2.42 % 2.08 % 1.48 % Obligations as of May 31, 2021 3.17 % 3.03 % 2.04 % Effective rate for fiscal 2021 service costs 3.59 % 3.44 % 2.54 % Effective rate for fiscal 2021 interest costs 2.54 % 2.32 % 1.41 % Lowering the discount rates by 100 basis points would increase our net defined benefit pension, other postretirement benefit, and postemployment benefit plan expense for fiscal 2023 by approximately $49 million. All obligation-related experience gains and losses are amortized using a straight-line method over the average remaining service period of active plan participants or over the average remaining lifetime of the remaining plan participants if the plan is viewed as “all or almost all” inactive participants. Health Care Cost Trend Rates We review our health care cost trend rates annually. Our review is based on data we collect about our health care claims experience and information provided by our actuaries. This information includes recent plan experience, plan design, overall industry experience and projections, and assumptions used by other similar organizations. Our initial health care cost trend rate is adjusted as necessary to remain consistent with this review, recent experiences, and short-term expectations. Our initial health care cost trend rate assumption is 6.0 percent for retirees age 65 and over and 5.9 percent for retirees under age 65 at the end of fiscal 2022. Rates are graded down annually until the ultimate trend rate of 4.5 percent is reached in 2031 for all retirees. The trend rates are applicable for calculations only if the retirees’ benefits increase as a result of health care inflation. The ultimate trend rate is adjusted annually, as necessary, to approximate the current economic view on the rate of long-term inflation plus an appropriate health care cost premium. Assumed trend rates for health care costs have an important effect on the amounts reported for the other postretirement benefit plans. Any arising health care claims cost-related experience gain or loss is recognized in the calculation of expected future claims. Once recognized, experience gains and losses are amortized using a straight-line method over the average remaining service period of active plan participants or over the average remaining lifetime of the remaining plan participants if the plan is viewed as “all or almost all” inactive participants. Financial Statement Impact In fiscal 2022, we recorded net defined benefit pension, other postretirement benefit, and postemployment benefit plan income of $26 million compared to $4 million of expense in fiscal 2021 and $2 million of income in fiscal 2020. As of May 29, 2022, we had cumulative unrecognized actuarial net losses of $2 billion on our defined benefit pension plans and cumulative unrecognized actuarial net gains of $207 million on our postretirement and postemployment benefit plans, mainly as the result of liability increases from lower interest rates, partially offset by increases in the values of plan assets in prior fiscal years. These unrecognized actuarial net losses will result in increases in our future pension and postretirement benefit expenses because they currently exceed the corridors defined by GAAP. Actual future net defined benefit pension, other postretirement benefit, and postemployment benefit plan income or expense will depend on investment performance, changes in future discount rates, changes in health care cost trend rates, and other factors related to the populations participating in these plans. RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS In March 2020, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued optional accounting guidance for a limited period of time to ease the potential burden in accounting for reference rate reform. The new standard provides expedients and exceptions to existing accounting requirements for contract modifications and hedge accounting related to transitioning from discontinued reference rates, such as LIBOR, to alternative reference rates, if certain criteria are met. The new accounting requirements can be applied as of the beginning of the interim period including March 12, 2020, or any date thereafter, through December 31, 2022. We are in the process of reviewing our contracts and arrangements that will be affected by a discontinued reference rate and are analyzing the impact of this guidance on our results of operations and financial position. 32 NON-GAAP MEASURES We have included in this report measures of financial performance that are not defined by GAAP. We believe that these measures provide useful information to investors and include these measures in other communications to investors. For each of these non-GAAP financial measures, we are providing below a reconciliation of the differences between the non-GAAP measure and the most directly comparable GAAP measure, an explanation of why we believe the non-GAAP measure provides useful information to investors, and any additional material purposes for which our management or Board of Directors uses the non-GAAP measure. These non-GAAP measures should be viewed in addition to, and not in lieu of, the comparable GAAP measure. Significant Items Impacting Comparability Several measures below are presented on an adjusted basis. The adjustments are either items resulting from infrequently occurring events or items that, in management’s judgment, significantly affect the year-to-year assessment of operating results. The following are descriptions of significant items impacting comparability of our results. Divestitures (gain) loss Divestitures gain related to the sale of our interests in Yoplait SAS, Yoplait Marques SNC, and Liberté Marques Sàrl and the sale of our European dough businesses in fiscal 2022. Divestiture loss related to the sale of our Laticínios Carolina business in Brazil in fiscal 2021. Please see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report. Transaction costs Fiscal 2022 transaction costs relate primarily to the sale of our interests in Yoplait SAS, Yoplait Marques SNC, and Liberté Marques Sàrl, the sale of our European dough businesses, the definitive agreements to sell our Helper main meals and Suddenly Salad side dishes business, and the definitive agreement to acquire TNT Crust. Fiscal 2021 transaction costs related to the sale of our interests in Yoplait SAS, Yoplait Marques SNC, and Liberté Marques Sàrl and the acquisition of Tyson Foods’ pet treats business. Please see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report. Non-income tax recovery Recovery related to a Brazil indirect tax item recorded in fiscal 2022 and fiscal 2021 . Acquisition integration costs Integration costs resulting from the acquisition of Tyson Foods’ pet treats business. Please see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report. Investment activity, net Valuation adjustments and the gain on sale of certain corporate investments in fiscal 2022 and fiscal 2021. Mark-to-market effects Net mark-to-market valuation of certain commodity positions recognized in unallocated corporate items. Please see Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report. Restructuring (recoveries) charges Restructuring charges for International supply chain optimization actions and net restructuring recoveries for previously announced restructuring actions in fiscal 2022. Restructuring charges for previously announced restructuring actions in fiscal 2021. Please see Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this report. Product recall Net product recall adjustment recorded in fiscal 2021 related to our international Green Giant business. Tax items Discrete tax benefit recognized in fiscal 2022 related to a release of a valuation allowance associated with our capital loss carryforwards expected to be used against future divestiture gains. Discrete tax item related to amendments to reorganize certain U.S. retiree health and welfare benefits plans in fiscal 2021. CPW restructuring charges CPW restructuring charges related to previously announced restructuring actions. 33 Organic Net Sales Growth Rates We provide organic net sales growth rates for our consolidated net sales and segment net sales. This measure is used in reporting to our Board of Directors and executive management and as a component of the measurement of our performance for incentive compensation purposes. We believe that organic net sales growth rates provide useful information to investors because they provide transparency to underlying performance in our net sales by excluding the effect that foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, as well as acquisitions, divestitures, and a 53 rd week, when applicable, have on year-to-year comparability. A reconciliation of these measures to reported net sales growth rates, the relevant GAAP measures, are included in our Consolidated Results of Operations and Results of Segment Operations discussions in the MD&A above. Adjusted Operating Profit Growth on a Constant-currency Basis This measure is used in reporting to our Board of Directors and executive management and as a component of the measurement of our performance for incentive compensation purposes. We believe that this measure provides useful information to investors because it is the operating profit measure we use to evaluate operating profit performance on a comparable year-to-year basis. Additionally, the measure is evaluated on a constant-currency basis by excluding the effect that foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations have on year-to-year comparability given the volatility in foreign currency exchange rates. Our adjusted operating profit growth on a constant-currency basis is calculated as follows: Fiscal Year 2022 2021 Change Operating profit as reported $ 3,475.8 $ 3,144.8 11 % Divestitures (gain) loss (194.1) 53.5 Mark-to-market effects (133.1) (138.8) Transaction costs 72.8 9.5 Restructuring (recoveries) charges (23.2) 172.7 Acquisition integration costs 22.4 - Non-income tax recovery (22.0) (8.8) Investment activity, net 14.7 (76.4) Product recall adjustment, net - (3.5) Adjusted operating profit $ 3,213.3 $ 3,153.2 2 % Foreign currency exchange impact Flat Adjusted operating profit growth, on a constant-currency basis 2 % Note: Table may not foot due to rounding. For more information on the reconciling items, please refer to the Significant Items Impacting Comparability section above. 34 Adjusted Diluted EPS and Related Constant-currency Growth Rate This measure is used in reporting to our Board of Directors and executive management. We believe that this measure provides useful information to investors because it is the profitabil ity measure we use to evaluate earnings performance on a comparable year-to-year basis. The reconciliation of our GAAP measure, diluted EPS, to adjusted diluted EPS and the related constant-currency growth rate follows: Fiscal Year Per Share Data 2022 2021 2022 vs. 2021 Change Diluted earnings per share, as reported $ 4.42 $ 3.78 17 % Divestitures (gain) loss (0.31) 0.04 Mark-to-market effects (0.17) (0.17) Transaction costs 0.09 0.01 Restructuring (recoveries) charges (0.03) 0.22 Acquisition integration costs 0.03 - Non-income tax recovery (0.02) (0.01) Investment activity, net 0.01 (0.10) Tax items (0.08) 0.02 Adjusted diluted earnings per share $ 3.94 $ 3.79 4 % Foreign currency exchange impact Flat Adjusted diluted earnings per share growth, on a constant-currency basis 4 % Note: Table may not foot due to rounding. For more information on the reconciling items, please refer to the Significant Items Impacting Comparability section above. See our reconciliation below of the effective income tax rate as reported to the adjusted effective income tax rate for the tax impact of each item affecting comparability. 35 Free Cash Flow Conversion Rate We believe this measure provides useful information to investors because it is important for assessing our efficiency in converting earnings to cash and returning cash to shareholders. The calculation of free cash flow conversion rate and net cash provided by operating activities conversion rate, its equivalent GAAP measure, follows: In Millions Fiscal 2022 Net earnings, including earnings attributable to redeemable and noncontrolling interests, as reported $ 2,735.0 Divestitures gain, net of tax (189.0) Mark-to-market effects, net of tax (102.5) Transaction costs, net of tax 56.4 Restructuring (recoveries) charges, net of tax (16.7) Acquisition integration costs, net of tax 17.2 Non-income tax recovery, net of tax (14.5) Investment activity, net, net of tax 6.2 CPW restructuring charges, net of tax (0.9) Tax item (50.7) Adjusted net earnings, including earnings attributable to redeemable and noncontrolling interests $ 2,440.5 Net cash provided by operating activities 3,316.1 Purchases of land, buildings, and equipment (568.7) Free cash flow $ 2,747.4 Net cash provided by operating activities conversion rate 121% Free cash flow conversion rate 113% Note: Table may not foot due rounding. For more information on the reconciling items, please refer to the Significant Items Impacting Comparability section above. See our reconciliation below of the effective income tax rate as reported to the adjusted effective income tax rate for the tax impact of each item affecting comparability. 36 Net Debt-to-Adjusted Earnings before Net Interest, Income Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization (EBITDA) Ratio We believe that this measure provides useful information to investors because it is an indicator of our ability to incur additional debt and to service our existing debt. The reconciliation of adjusted EBITDA to net earnings, including earnings attributable to redeemable and noncontrolling interests, its GAAP equivalent, as well as the calculation of the net debt-to-adjusted EBITDA ratio are as follows: Fiscal Year In Millions 2022 2021 Total debt (a) $ 11,620.4 $ 12,612.0 Cash 569.4 1,505.2 Net debt $ 11,051.0 $ 11,106.8 Net earnings, including earnings attributable to redeemable and noncontrolling interests, as reported $ 2,735.0 $ 2,346.0 Income taxes 586.3 629.1 Interest, net 379.6 420.3 Depreciation and amortization 570.3 601.3 EBITDA 4,271.2 3,996.8 After-tax earnings from joint ventures (111.7) (117.7) Divestitures (gain) loss (194.1) 53.5 Mark-to-market effects (133.1) (138.8) Transaction costs 72.8 9.5 Restructuring (recoveries) charges (23.2) 172.7 Acquisition integration costs 22.4 - Non-income tax recovery (22.0) (8.8) Investment activity, net 14.7 (76.4) Product recall adjustment, net - (3.5) Adjusted EBITDA $ 3,897.0 $ 3,887.4 Net debt-to-adjusted EBITDA ratio 2.8 2.9 Note: Table may not foot due to rounding. (a) Notes payable and long-term debt, including current portion. For more information on the reconciling items, please refer to the Significant Items Impacting Comparability section above. 37 Adjusted Operating Profit as a Percent of Net Sales (Adjusted Operating Profit Margin) We believe this measure provides useful information to investors because it is important for assessing our operating profit margin on a comparable year-to-year basis. Our adjusted operating profit margins are calculated as follows: Fiscal Year Percent of Net Sales 2022 2021 Operating profit as reported $ 3,475.8 18.3 % $ 3,144.8 17.3 % Divestitures (gain) loss (194.1) (1.0) % 53.5 0.3 % Mark-to-market effects (133.1) (0.7) % (138.8) (0.8) % Transaction costs 72.8 0.4 % 9.5 0.1 % Restructuring (recoveries) charges (23.2) (0.1) % 172.7 1.0 % Acquisition integration costs 22.4 0.1 % - - % Non-income tax recovery (22.0) (0.1) % (8.8) - % Investment activity, net 14.7 0.1 % (76.4) (0.4) % Product recall adjustment, net - - % (3.5) - % Adjusted operating profit $ 3,213.3 16.9 % $ 3,153.2 17.4 % Note: Table may not foot due to rounding. For more information on the reconciling items, please refer to the Significant Items Impacting Comparability section above. 38 Adjusted Effective Income Tax Rates We believe this measure provides useful information to investors because it presents the adjusted effective income tax rate on a comparable year-to-year basis. Adjusted effective income tax rates are calculated as follows: Fiscal Year Ended 2022 2021 In Millions (Except Per Share Data) Pretax Earnings (a) Income Taxes Pretax Earnings (a) Income Taxes As reported $3,209.6 $586.3 $2,857.4 $629.1 Divestitures (gain) loss (194.1) (5.1) 53.5 0.4 Mark-to-market effects (133.1) (30.6) (138.8) (31.9) Transaction costs 72.8 16.4 9.5 2.3 Restructuring (recoveries) charges (23.2) (6.4) 172.7 35.5 Acquisition integration costs 22.4 5.1 - - Non-income tax recovery (22.0) (7.5) (8.8) (3.0) Investment activity, net 14.7 8.5 (76.4) (15.6) Tax items - 50.7 - (11.2) Product recall adjustment, net - - (3.5) (0.4) As adjusted $2,947.1 $617.4 $2,865.7 $605.2 Effective tax rate: As reported 18.3% 22.0% As adjusted 20.9% 21.1% Sum of adjustments to income taxes $31.1 ($24.0) Average number of common shares - diluted EPS 612.6 619.1 Impact of income tax adjustments on adjusted diluted EPS $(0.05) $0.04 Note: Table may not foot due to rounding. For more information on the reconciling items, please refer to the Significant Items Impacting Comparability section above. 39 Constant-currency After-Tax Earnings from Joint Ventures Growth Rate We believe that this measure provides useful information to investors because it provides transparency to underlying performance of our joint ventures by excluding the effect that foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations have on year-to-year comparability given volatility in foreign currency exchange markets. After-tax earnings from joint ventures growth rate on a constant-currency basis are calculated as follows: Fiscal 2022 Percentage change in after-tax earnings from joint ventures as reported (5) % Impact of foreign currency exchange (3) pts Percentage change in after-tax earnings from joint ventures on a constant-currency basis (3) % Note: Table may not foot due to rounding. Net Sales Growth Rate for Canada Operating Unit on a Constant-currency Basis We believe this measure of our Canada operating unit net sales provides useful information to investors because it provides transparency to the underlying performance for the Canada operating unit within our North America Retail segment by excluding the effect that foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations have on year-to-year comparability given volatility in foreign currency exchange markets. Net sales growth rate for our Canada operating unit on a constant-currency basis is calculated as follows: Fiscal 2022 Percentage change in net sales as reported 3 % Impact of foreign currency exchange 3 pts Percentage change in net sales on a constant-currency basis 1 % Note: Table may not foot due to rounding. Constant-currency Segment Operating Profit Growth Rates We believe that this measure provides useful information to investors because it provides transparency to underlying performance of our segments by excluding the effect that foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations have on year-to-year comparability given volatility in foreign currency exchange markets. Our segments’ operating profit growth rates on a constant-currency basis are calculated as follows: Fiscal 2022 Percentage Change in Operating Profit as Reported Impact of Foreign Currency Exchange Percentage Change in Operating Profit on Constant- Currency Basis North America Retail (1) % Flat (1) % International (2) % 2 pts (4) % Pet 13 % Flat 13 % North America Foodservice 26 % Flat 26 % Note: Table may not foot due to rounding. Forward-Looking Financial Measures Our fiscal 2023 outlook for organic net sales growth, constant-currency adjusted operating profit, adjusted diluted EPS, and free cash flow are non-GAAP financial measures that exclude, or have otherwise been adjusted for, items impacting comparability, including the effect of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, restructuring charges and project-related costs, acquisition transaction and integration costs, acquisitions, divestitures, and mark-to-market effects. We are not able to reconcile these forward-looking non- GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable forward-looking GAAP financial measures without unreasonable efforts because we are unable to predict with a reasonable degree of certainty the actual impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices or the timing or impact of acquisitions, divestitures, and restructuring actions throughout fiscal 2023. The unavailable information could have a significant impact on our fiscal 2023 GAAP financial results. 40 For fiscal 2023, we currently expect: foreign currency exchange rates (based on a blend of forward and forecasted rates and hedge positions) and acquisitions and divestitures completed prior to fiscal 2023 and those closed or expected to close in fiscal 2023 to reduce net sales growth by approximately 3 percent; foreign currency exchange rates to reduce adjusted operating profit and adjusted diluted EPS growth by approximately 1 percent; and restructuring charges and project-related costs and transaction and acquisition integration costs related to actions previously announced to total approximately $15 million to $25 million.