********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

We operate globally in a rapidly changing economic, political and technological environment that present numerous risks. Our operations and financial results are subject to risks and uncertainties, including those described below, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, our ability to successfully execute our strategy and the trading price of our common stock or debt. The following discussion identifies the most significant factors that may adversely affect the Company. This information should be read in conjunction with Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations (“MD&A”) and the consolidated financial statements and related notes incorporated by reference into this report. The following discussion of risks is not all inclusive but is designed to highlight what we believe are important factors to consider, as these factors could cause our future results to differ from those in our forward-looking statements and from historical trends. Risks Related to Our Business Inflationary price pressures and uncertain availability of commodities, raw materials, utilities, labor or other inputs used by us and our suppliers, or instability in logistics and related costs, among other factors, could negatively impact our profitability Increases in the price of commodities, raw materials, utilities, labor or other inputs that we or our suppliers use in manufacturing and supplying products, components and parts, along with logistics and other related costs, may lead to higher production and shipping costs for our products, parts and components. Further, increasing global demand for, and uncertain supply of, such materials could disrupt our or our suppliers’ ability to obtain such materials in a timely manner to meet our supply needs and/or could lead to increased costs. Any increase in the cost of inputs to our production could lead to higher costs for our products and could negatively impact our operating results, future profitability and ability to successfully deliver on our strategy. Increasing our prices to our customers may cause certain of our customers to push out, cancel or refrain from purchasing our products, which could materially adversely impact demand for our products, and thereby also negatively impact our operating results, future profitability and ability to successfully deliver on our strategy. Factors such as supply chain disruptions, manufacturing interruptions or delays, or the failure to accurately forecast customer demand, could affect our ability to meet customer demand, lead to higher costs, or result in excess or obsolete inventory; if we are unable to obtain the necessary equipment, raw and batch materials, natural resources, utilities and other essentials required in our products or processes, our business will be negatively impacted Corning’s business relies on the timely supply of raw materials, precious metals, natural resources or utilities including energy and industrial water, equipment, parts and components, services and related products to meet the changing technical and volume requirements of its customers, which depends in part on the timely delivery of materials, equipment and services, from suppliers and contract manufacturers. Significant or sudden increases in demand for such materials, equipment and services, as well as delays in and unpredictability of shipments due to transportation interruptions, have resulted in, and may continue to result in, a shortage of materials, equipment and services needed to manufacture Corning’s products. Such shortages have adversely impacted, and may continue to adversely impact, our suppliers’ ability to meet our demand requirements and Corning’s manufacturing operations and its ability to meet customer demand. Some key materials, equipment and services are subject to long lead-times or are available only from a single supplier or limited group of suppliers and we may not be able to find alternate sources in a timely manner. Volatility of demand for manufacturing equipment can increase capital, technical, operational and other risks for Corning and for companies throughout our supply chain, and may cause some suppliers to exit businesses, scale back or cease operations, which could impact our ability to meet customer demand and could have a material adverse effect on our business. 13 Corning may also experience significant interruptions of its manufacturing operations, delays in its ability to deliver products or services, increased costs or customer order cancellations as a result of: Health crisis events, such as epidemics or pandemics, have adversely impacted, and may continue to impact, the economy and disrupt our operations and supply chains, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations Health crisis events, including epidemics or pandemics, such as COVID-19, have impacted and may further impact the economy and could have additional impacts on economic growth, supply chains, the proper functioning of financial and capital markets, foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. Recently, the COVID-19 pandemic resulted in authorities around the world implementing numerous unprecedented measures such as travel restrictions, quarantines, shelter in place orders, vaccine mandates and facility shutdowns. These measures have impacted our workforce, operations and supply chains, and those of our customers, contract manufacturers and suppliers, and may continue to have an impact particularly in the event of another significant global health crisis. There is considerable uncertainty regarding the duration, scope and severity of a health crisis event and the impacts on our business and the economy from the effects of such an event and response measures. Corning ’ s Display Technologies segment generates a significant amount of the Company ’ s profits and cash flow; any significant decrease in display glass pricing, volume or market share could have a material and negative impact on our financial results Corning’s ability to generate profits and operating cash flow depends largely on the profitability of our display glass business, which is subject to pricing pressure, exchange rate movements, industry competition, potential over-capacity, development of new technologies and operational and regulatory risks. If we are not able to achieve proportionate reductions in costs and/or increases in volume or price to offset the aforementioned factors, it could have a material adverse impact on our financial results. Because we have a concentrated customer base, future sales and cash flows could be negatively impacted by the actions or loss of one or more key customers A relatively small number of end customers account for a high percentage of our net sales.  This concentration subjects us to a variety of risks including: 14 The following table details the number of combined customers of our reportable segments that accounted for a large percentage of segment net sales: Events outside of Corning ’ s control, or those of our contract manufacturers, could cause a disruption to our manufacturing operations and our ability to serve our customers, resulting in a negative impact to Corning ’ s net sales, net income, asset values and liquidity Disruption to our manufacturing operations, or those of our contract manufacturers, could significantly impact Corning’s ability to supply its customers and could produce a near-term severe impact on our individual business units and the Company. Given the geographical concentration of certain of the Company’s and our contract manufacturers’ plants in Asia Pacific, the highly engineered nature of the facilities and the globally dispersed talent required to run these facilities, any event that adversely affects or restricts movement into or out of a specific geographic area where we, our contract manufacturers, suppliers, or customers have a presence, could adversely impact our results. Due to the specialized nature of our products and single-site manufacturing locations, in the event such a location experiences disruption, it may not be possible to find replacement capacity or substitute production from other facilities. We may experience difficulties in enforcing our intellectual property rights, which could result in loss of market share and decreased sales and profits, and we may be subject to claims of infringement of the intellectual property rights of others We rely on patent and trade secret laws, copyright, trademark, confidentiality procedures, controls and contractual commitments to protect our intellectual property rights. Despite our efforts, these protections may be limited and we may encounter difficulties in protecting our intellectual property rights or obtaining rights to additional intellectual property necessary to permit us to continue or expand our businesses. We cannot provide assurance that the patents we hold or may obtain will provide meaningful protection against our competitors. Changes in or enforcement of laws concerning intellectual property may affect our ability to prevent or address the misappropriation of, or the unauthorized use of, our intellectual property, potentially resulting in loss of market share. Litigation may be necessary to enforce our intellectual property rights. Litigation is inherently uncertain and outcomes are unpredictable. If we cannot protect our intellectual property rights against unauthorized copying or use, or other misappropriation, we may not remain competitive. The intellectual property rights of others could inhibit our ability to introduce new products. Other companies hold patents on technologies used in our industries and are aggressively seeking to expand, enforce and license their patent portfolios. We periodically receive notices from, or have lawsuits filed against us, by third parties claiming infringement, misappropriation or other misuse of their intellectual property rights and/or breach of our agreements with them. These third parties often include entities that do not have the capabilities to design, manufacture, or distribute products or entities that acquire intellectual property, including patents, for the sole purpose of monetizing their acquired intellectual property through asserting claims of infringement and misuse. Such claims of infringement or misappropriation may result in loss of revenue, substantial costs, or lead to monetary damages or injunctive relief against us. Information technology dependency and cybersecurity vulnerabilities could lead to reduced revenue, liability claims, competitive or reputational harm, and result in material adverse effects on our operations and financial results The Company is dependent on information technology systems and infrastructure (“IT systems”) owned and operated by the Company or managed by third-party service providers, suppliers and contract manufacturers. IT systems enable us to conduct, monitor and/or protect our business, operations, systems, data and other assets. In the ordinary course of our business, we and our providers collect, process, transmit and store sensitive data, including intellectual property, our proprietary information and that of our customers, suppliers and business partners, as well as personally identifiable information.  Intrusion into a supplier or contract manufacturer system not integrated with a Corning IT system could result in service disruption and/or loss of financial control. 15 Our IT systems, and those of our providers, may be vulnerable to compromise or disruption due to human error or malfeasance, outdated applications, computer viruses or malware (e.g., ransomware), natural disasters, unauthorized access, cyber-attacks and other similar incidents and disruptions. Inadequate account security or organizational security practices may also result in unauthorized access. Increased work-from-home, at both the Company and our providers, presents additional operational risk.  Companies that provide utilities, water, transportation, natural gas and other resources and services across our supply chain, are critical to our manufacturing operations and are vulnerable to cyber-attacks. From time to time, both we and certain of our providers, have been subject to cyberattacks and security incidents.  We may be unable to anticipate, detect, prevent or remediate future attacks, particularly as attackers are becoming more sophisticated in their ability to circumvent controls and remove forensic evidence. Any significant disruption, breakdown, intrusion, interruption or corruption, data breach, or compromise to the accessibility, security or integrity of our or our providers’ IT systems, or the misappropriation or disclosure of any confidential, proprietary or personally identifiable information, could result in the loss of data or intellectual property, equipment or systems damage, downtime, safety related issues and could have a material adverse effect on our business, including by harming our competitive position and reputation, disrupting our manufacturing, reducing the value of our investment in research and development and other strategic initiatives, impairing our ability to access suppliers, contract manufacturers, customers and cloud-based services, subjecting us to litigation or regulatory investigations or fines, increasing the costs of compliance and remediation, or otherwise adversely affecting our business.  We may be required to invest significant additional resources to comply with evolving cybersecurity regulations and to modify and enhance our IT systems, information security and controls, and to investigate and remediate any security vulnerabilities. Any losses, costs or liabilities may not be covered by, or may exceed the coverage limits of, any, or all, of our applicable insurance policies. We may not earn a positive return from our research, development and engineering investments Developing our products through our innovation model of research and development is costly and often involves a long investment cycle. We make significant investments in research, development and engineering that may not earn an economic return. If our investments do not provide a pipeline of products or technologies that our customers demand or lower our manufacturing costs, or if our products or technologies become obsolete or disrupted by emerging technologies, it could negatively impact our revenue and operating margins for both near- and long-term. Our innovation model depends on our ability to attract and retain specialized expertise Our innovation model requires us to employ highly specialized experts in glass science, ceramic science and optical physics to conduct our research and development and engineer our products and design our manufacturing facilities. The loss of the services of any member of our key research and development or engineering team without adequate replacement, or the inability to attract new qualified personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial performance. We are subject to strict environmental regulations and regulatory changes that could result in fines or restrictions that interrupt our operations Some of our manufacturing processes generate chemical waste, wastewater, other industrial waste or greenhouse gases, and we are subject to numerous laws and regulations relating to the use, storage, discharge and disposal of such substances. We have installed anti-pollution equipment for the treatment of chemical waste and wastewater at our facilities. We have taken steps to control and reduce the amount of greenhouse gases created by our manufacturing operations. However, we cannot provide assurance that environmental claims will not be brought against us or that government regulators will not take steps to adopt more stringent environmental standards. Any failure on our part to comply with any present or future environmental regulations could result in the assessment of damages or imposition of fines against us, or the suspension/cessation of production or operations. In addition, environmental regulations could require us to acquire costly equipment, incur other significant compliance expenses or limit or restrict production or operations and thus materially and negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Changes in regulations and the regulatory environment in the U.S. and the many other countries in which we operate, such as those resulting from the regulation and impact of climate change, CO 2 abatement and emission reduction targets, may affect our businesses and results in adverse ways by, among other things, substantially increasing manufacturing costs, limiting availability of scarce resources, especially energy, or requiring limitations on production or sales of our products or those of our customers. 16 General Risk Factors We may have additional tax liabilities We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and many foreign jurisdictions and are commonly audited by various tax authorities. There are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax treatment is uncertain. Judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax, assessments, audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals, or result in the forfeiture of funds deposited with the relevant government authorities. The results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our financial statements in the period or periods for which such a determination is made. The U.S., other countries and international organizations, such as Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, may change their laws or issue new international tax standards that may also impact our taxes. As a global company, we face many risks which could adversely impact our operations and financial results We are a global company and derive a substantial portion of our revenue from, and have significant operations, outside of the U.S. Our international operations include manufacturing, assembly, sales, research and development, customer support and shared administrative service centers. Additionally, we rely on a global supply chain for key components and capabilities that are central to our ability to invent, make and sell products. Compliance with multiple legal and regulatory requirements increases our costs. We are subject to both U.S. laws and the local laws where we operate which, among other things, include data privacy requirements, employment and labor laws, tax laws, anti-competition regulations, prohibitions on payments to governmental officials, import and trade restrictions and export requirements. Non-compliance or violations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or employees, and prohibitions on the conduct of our business. Such violations could result in prohibitions on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries and could also materially damage our reputation, our brand, our international expansion efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, our businesses and operating results. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate and manage these risks. Corning is exposed to risks associated with an uncertain, recessionary and inflationary global economy Uncertain or adverse economic and business conditions, including uncertainties and volatility in the financial markets, national debt, fiscal or monetary concerns, availability of government incentives, inflation and rising interest rates in various regions, could materially adversely impact Corning’s operating results. Markets for our products depend largely on business and consumer spending and demand for network capacity, electronics and automotive products. Uncertain or adverse economic and recessionary business conditions, among other factors, that could result in decreases in consumer spending and demand, or cause us to pass on increased costs to our customers, may cause certain of our customers to push out, cancel or refrain from purchasing our products, which could materially adversely impact demand for our products and our operating results. Similarly, changes that result in sudden increases in consumer demand for electronic products have resulted in, and may continue to result in, a shortage of parts and materials needed to manufacture our products or the products in which our products are used. Such shortages, as well as shipment delays due to transportation interruptions, have adversely impacted, and may continue to adversely impact, our ability to meet our demand requirements. Uncertain economic and industry conditions also make it more challenging for Corning to forecast its operating results, make business decisions and identify and prioritize the risks that may affect its businesses, sources and uses of cash, financial condition and results of operations. If Corning does not appropriately manage its business operations in response to changing economic and industry conditions, it could have a significant negative impact on its business performance and financial condition. Even during periods of economic uncertainty or lower revenues, Corning must continue to invest in research and development and maintain a global business infrastructure to compete effectively and support its customers, which can have a negative impact on its operating margins and earnings. 17 We are also subject to a variety of other risks in managing a global organization, including those related to: We have significant exposure to foreign currency movements A large portion of our sales, profit and cash flows are transacted in non-U.S. dollar currencies, primarily the Japanese yen, South Korean won, New Taiwan dollar, Chinese yuan and euro. The Company expects to continue to experience fluctuations in the U.S. dollar value of these activities if it is not possible, cost-effective or should we not elect to hedge certain currency exposure. Additionally, gains or losses may be experienced if the underlying exposure which has been hedged increases or decreases significantly. The ultimate realized gain or loss with respect to currency fluctuations will generally depend on the size and type of cross-currency exposure that we have, the changes in exchange rates associated with those exposures, whether we have entered into foreign currency contracts to offset these exposures and other factors. These factors could materially impact our results of operations, anticipated future results, financial position and cash flows. We may have significant exposure to counterparties of our related derivatives portfolio We maintain a significant portfolio of over-the-counter derivatives to hedge our projected currency exposure. We are exposed to potential losses in the event of non-performance by our counterparties to these derivative contracts. Any failure of a counterparty to pay on such a contract when due could materially impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Current or future litigation or regulatory investigations may harm our financial condition or results of operations As a global technology and manufacturing company, we are engaged in various litigations and regulatory matters. Litigation and regulatory proceedings may be uncertain, and adverse rulings could occur, resulting in significant liabilities, penalties or damages. Any such substantial legal liability or regulatory action could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and reputation. 18 Our business is subject to various governmental regulations, and compliance with these regulations may cause us to incur significant expense. If we fail to maintain compliance with applicable regulations, we may be forced to cease the manufacture and distribution of certain products, and we could be subject to administrative proceedings and civil or criminal penalties Our products and operations are also subject to regulation by U.S. and non‐U.S. regulatory agencies, such as the U.S. Federal Trade Commission. From time to time, we may also be involved or required to participate in regulatory investigations or inquiries, into certain of our contracting and business practices, which may evolve into legal or other administrative proceedings. Growing public concern over concentration of economic power in corporations is likely to result in increased anti‐competition legislation, regulation, administrative rule making and enforcement activity. Involvement in regulatory investigations or inquiries, can be costly, lengthy, complex and time consuming, diverting the attention and energies of our management and technical personnel.  If any pending or future governmental investigations result in an unfavorable resolution, we could be required to cease the manufacture and sale of the subject products or technology, pay fines or disgorge profits or other payments and/or cease certain conduct and/or modify our contracting or business practices, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We may be obligated to indemnify our current or former directors or employees, or former directors or employees of companies that we have acquired, in connection with regulatory investigations. These liabilities could be substantial and may include, among other things, the cost of government, law enforcement or regulatory investigations and civil or criminal fines and penalties. Our global operations are subject to extensive trade and anti-corruption laws and regulations Due to the international scope of our operations, we are subject to a complex system of import- and export-related laws and regulations, including U.S. regulations issued by Customs and Border Protection, the Bureau of Industry and Security, the Office of Anti-boycott Compliance, the Directorate of Defense Trade Controls and the Office of Foreign Assets Control, as well as the counterparts of these agencies in other countries. Any alleged or actual violation by an employee or the Company may subject us to government scrutiny, investigation and civil and criminal penalties, and may limit our ability to import or export our products or to provide services outside the U.S. We cannot predict the nature, scope or effect of future regulatory requirements to which our operations might be subject to, based on the way existing laws might be administered or interpreted. In addition, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and similar foreign anti-corruption laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments or providing anything of value to improperly influence foreign government officials to obtain or retain business or obtain an unfair advantage. Recent years have seen a substantial increase in the global enforcement of anti-corruption laws. Our continued operation and expansion outside the U.S., including in developing countries, could increase the risk of alleged violations. Violations of these laws may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, could disrupt our business, and result in an adverse effect on our reputation, business and results of operations or financial condition. Moreover, several of our key customers are domiciled in areas of the world with laws, rules and business practices that may notably differ from those in the U.S., and we face the reputational and legal risk that our related partners may violate applicable laws, rules and business practices. International trade policies may negatively impact our ability to sell and manufacture our products outside of the U.S. Government policies on international trade and investment such as import quotas, tariffs and capital controls, whether adopted by individual governments or addressed by regional trade blocs, can affect the demand for our products and services, impact the competitive position of our products or prevent us, our equity affiliates or joint ventures, from being able to sell and manufacture products in certain countries. The implementation of more restrictive trade policies, such as higher tariffs or new barriers to entry, together with anti-dumping claims, duties, slowed regulatory approvals and other restrictions, in countries in which we import raw materials and components or sell large quantities of products and services could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, a country’s adoption of nationalistic policies or retaliation by another government against such policies could have a negative impact on our results of operations.  Further, these actions in conjunction with any trade tensions may restrict us from participating in a specific market or may prevent us from competing effectively. 19

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”) was prepared to provide a historical and prospective narrative on our financial condition and results of operations through the eyes of management and should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes to those financial statements. The discussion and analysis of the 2022 to 2021 year-over-year changes are not included herein and can be found in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022. Our MD&A is organized as follows: OVERVIEW Corning is vital to progress – in the industries we help advance and in the world we share. For more than 170 years, Corning has combined its unparalleled expertise in glass science, ceramic science and optical physics with deep manufacturing and engineering capabilities to develop category-defining products that transform industries and enhance people’s lives. Our materials science and manufacturing expertise, boundless curiosity and commitment to purposeful invention place us at the center of the way the world works, learns and lives. In addition, our sustained investment in research, development and engineering capabilities means we are always ready to solve the toughest challenges – alongside our customers. Our capabilities are versatile and synergistic, allowing Corning to evolve to meet changing market needs, while also helping customers capture new opportunities in dynamic industries. Corning strives to be a catalyst for positive change and to help move the world forward. The Company drives profitable multiyear growth by inventing, making and selling life-changing products – all of which is based on a set of vital capabilities that are increasingly relevant to profound transformations that touch many facets of daily life. Today, Corning's markets include optical communications, mobile consumer electronics, display, automotive, solar, semiconductor and life sciences. At the start of 2023, we introduced plans to improve profitability and cash flow. Throughout the year, we took action to restore our productivity ratios to historical levels and to raise price to more appropriately share inflation with our customers. Our results demonstrated that we continue to make solid progress advancing market leadership, strengthening our profitability, and improving our cash flow generation even in the lower-demand environment that we are experiencing. Although demand in most of our markets is temporarily depressed due to supply chain corrections and macroeconomic factors, we are entering 2024 operationally strong and we remain confident that key industry growth drivers are intact: specifically, wireless, broadband, 5G, cloud computing and advanced artificial intelligence in Optical communications, increased screen sizes in Display Technologies, tighter emission regulations that drive more and better filtration in Environmental Technologies and the need for more and more advanced cover materials in Mobile Consumer Electronics. Additionally, we have built competitively-advantaged positions in the markets in which we participate and we believe we are the technology leader, as well as the lowest-cost producer, in those markets. Therefore, as we expect our markets to normalize in the midterm, we believe we are well-positioned with the production capacity and technical capabilities necessary to capture this growth opportunity and deliver powerful incremental profit and cash to our shareholders. 2024 Corporate Outlook We expect core net sales of approximately $3.1 billion for the first quarter of 2024. 24 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following table presents selected highlights from our operations (in millions): Net Sales Net sales for the year ended December 31, 2023 decreased by $1.6 billion, or 11%, when compared to the same period in 2022. The decrease was primarily driven by a decline in segment sales for Optical Communications of $1.0 billion, Life Sciences of $0.3 billion and Hemlock and Emerging Growth Businesses of $0.2 billion, partially offset by an increase in segment sales for Environmental Technologies of $0.2 billion. Refer to the “Segment Analysis” section of our MD&A below for a discussion of net sales by segment. In 2023 and 2022, sales in international markets accounted for 67% and 65% of total net sales, respectively. Cost of Sales / Gross Margin The types of expenses included in cost of sales are: raw materials consumption, including direct and indirect materials; salaries, wages and benefits; depreciation and amortization; production utilities; production-related purchasing; warehousing (including receiving and inspection); repairs and maintenance; inter-location inventory transfer costs; production and warehousing facility property insurance; rent for production facilities; freight and logistics costs; and other production overhead. Gross margin decreased by $575 million, or 13% and gross margin as a percentage of net sales decreased by 1 percentage point when compared to 2022.  The decrease in gross margin is primarily driven by the decrease in net sales, as discussed above. Throughout 2023, actions were taken by management to improve profitability, including raising prices, restoring our productivity levels and normalizing inventory levels, which has resulted in improvements in gross margin as a percentage of net sales throughout the year despite the decline in sales. 25 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses The types of expenses included in selling, general and administrative expenses are: salaries, wages and benefits; share-based compensation expense; travel; sales commissions; professional fees; and depreciation and amortization, utilities and rent for administrative facilities. Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased by $55 million, or 3%, and increased as a percentage of net sales when compared to 2022, primarily due to the decline in net sales. Research, Development and Engineering Expenses Research, development and engineering expenses increased by $29 million, or 3%, and increased as a percentage of net sales when compared to 2022, primarily due to the decline in net sales. Translated earnings contract gain, net Included in translated earnings contract gain, net, is the impact of foreign currency contracts which economically hedge the translation exposure arising from movements in the Japanese yen, South Korean won, New Taiwan dollar, euro, Chinese yuan and British pound and its impact on net income. The following table provides detailed information on the impact of translated earnings contract gain, net (in millions): Income Before Income Taxes Corning’s income before income taxes decreased by $981 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, when compared to the same period in 2022, which is primarily driven by a $575 million decline in gross margin, as discussed above, and $190 million less in translated earnings contract gain, net. Provision for Income Taxes For the year ended December 31, 2023, the effective tax rate differed from the U.S. statutory rate of 21% primarily due to tax credits generated, non-taxable items, foreign derived intangible income and stock compensation windfall deductions, partially offset by changes in valuation allowance assessments, non-deductible items and tax reserves. For the year ended December 31, 2022, the effective tax rate differed from the U.S. statutory rate of 21% primarily due to changes in tax reserves, foreign earnings and valuation allowance assessments, partially offset by changes in tax credits generated and foreign derived intangible income. 26 The effective tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2023 decreased compared to the year ended December 31, 2022 primarily due to changes in pretax earnings, non-taxable items and tax reserves, partially offset by changes in valuation allowance assessments, non-deductible items and foreign derived intangible income. Refer to Note 6 (Income Taxes) in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements for further details regarding income tax matters. The U.S. enacted the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (“IRA”) in August 2022, which, among other sections, creates a new book minimum tax of at least 15% of consolidated pre-tax income for corporations with average book income in excess of $1 billion. The IRA also provides credit incentives to taxpayers based on the type and amount of manufacturing activity performed. None of the provisions within the IRA are expected to have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position or cash flow. In December 2022, the European Union (“EU”) Member States formally adopted the EU Pillar Two Framework (“Pillar Two Framework”), which generally provides for a 15% global minimum effective tax rate, based on the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development guidelines.  Certain countries have enacted this tax law change, with an effective date starting January 1, 2024 and January 1, 2025, for certain aspects of the directive.  The Company continues to evaluate the potential impact of the Pillar Two Framework, but we do not currently believe it will have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position or cash flow. Net Income Attributable to Corning Incorporated As a result of the items discussed above, net income attributable to Corning Incorporated and per share data were as follows (in millions, except per share amounts): Comprehensive Income attributable to Corning Incorporated The $298 million decrease in comprehensive income attributable to Corning Incorporated was primarily due to the $738 million decrease in net income partially offset by a $549 million improvement in net losses on foreign currency translation adjustments, driven by the Japanese yen, Chinese yuan, South Korean won and euro. 27 SEGMENT ANALYSIS Financial results for the reportable segments and Hemlock and Emerging Growth Businesses are prepared on a basis consistent with the internal disaggregation of financial information to assist the Chief Operating Decision Maker (“CODM”) in making internal operating decisions, which is more fully discussed within Note 17 (Reportable Segments) in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. Segment net income may not be consistent with measures used by other companies. The following table presents segment net sales by reportable segment and Hemlock and Emerging Growth Businesses (in millions): Optical Communications The decrease in segment net sales was primarily driven by a decline in volume due to lower order rates from carriers as they continue to draw down inventory. Display Technologies The increase in segment net sales was primarily due to higher volumes, primarily attributable to the recovery of panel maker utilization, as well as a result of price increases in the second half of 2023. Specialty Materials The decrease in segment net sales was primarily due to lower demand in the smartphone, tablet and notebook markets, partially offset by continued demand for semiconductor materials. Environmental Technologies The increase in segment net sales was primarily due to increased demand of automotive products, including gasoline particulate filter adoption in China. Life Sciences The decrease in segment net sales was primarily due to lower demand for COVID-related products in China and the impact of customers in North America and Europe drawing down inventory. Hemlock and Emerging Growth Businesses The decrease was primarily driven by a decrease in our HSG business due to declines in solar-grade polysilicon prices and lower sales in our Pharmaceutical Technologies business as the last of the volume commitments for COVID-related products were completed in the second quarter. 28 The following table presents segment net income by reportable segment and Hemlock and Emerging Growth Businesses (in millions): Optical Communications The decrease in segment net income was primarily driven by a decline in sales volume, as outlined above, partially offset by improvements from pricing and productivity actions. Display Technologies The increase in segment net income was primarily driven by the increase in sales, as outlined above, and improved profitability which includes price increases in the second half of 2023. Specialty Materials The decrease in segment net income was primarily driven by the decline in sales volume, as outlined above, and the inflationary impact on raw materials. Environmental Technologies The increase in segment net income was primarily driven by the increase in sales, as outlined above, and as a result of improvements from productivity actions. Life Sciences The decrease in segment net income was primarily driven by lower sales volume, as outlined above. Hemlock and Emerging Growth Businesses The decrease was primarily driven by our HSG and Pharmaceutical Technologies businesses due to lower sales, as outlined above. 29 CORE PERFORMANCE MEASURES In managing the Company and assessing our financial performance, we adjust certain measures included in our consolidated financial statements to exclude specific items to arrive at our core performance measures. These items include the impact of translating the Japanese yen-denominated debt, the impact of the translated earnings contracts, acquisition-related costs, certain discrete tax items and other tax-related adjustments, restructuring, impairment and other charges and credits, certain litigation, regulatory and other legal matters, pension mark-to-market adjustments and other items which do not reflect the ongoing operating results of the Company. In addition, because a significant portion of our revenues and expenses are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, management believes it is important to understand the impact on sales and net income of translating these currencies into U.S. dollars. Therefore, management utilizes constant-currency reporting for the Display Technologies, Specialty Materials, Environmental Technologies and Life Sciences segments to exclude the impact from the Japanese yen, South Korean won, Chinese yuan, New Taiwan dollar and euro, as applicable to the segment. The most significant constant-currency adjustment relates to the Japanese yen exposure within the Display Technologies segment. The constant-currency rates established for our core performance measures are internally derived long-term management estimates, which are closely aligned with our hedging instrument rates. These hedging instruments may include, but are not limited to, foreign exchange forward or option contracts and foreign-denominated debt. For details of the rates used, please see the footnotes to the “Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures” section. We believe that the use of constant-currency reporting allows management to understand our results without the volatility of currency fluctuations, analyze underlying trends in the businesses and establish operational goals and forecasts. Core performance measures are not prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”). We provide investors with these non-GAAP measures to evaluate our results as we believe they are indicative of our core operating performance and provide greater transparency to how management evaluates our results and trends and makes financial and operational decisions. These measures are not, and should not be viewed as a substitute for, GAAP reporting measures. With respect to the outlook for future periods, it is not possible to provide reconciliations for these non-GAAP measures because management does not forecast the movement of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar, or other items that do not reflect ongoing operations, nor does it forecast items that have not yet occurred or are out of management's control. As a result, management is unable to provide outlook information on a GAAP basis. For a reconciliation of non-GAAP performance measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measure, please see “Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measures.” Results of Operations – Core Performance Measures The following table presents selected highlights from our operations, excluding certain items, (in millions, except per share amounts): Core Net Sales For the year ended December 31, 2023, we generated core net sales of $13.6 billion compared to core net sales for the year ended December 31, 2022 of $14.8 billion. The decrease in core net sales of $1.2 billion was primarily driven by lower reportable segment net sales in Optical Communications of $1.0 billion and Life Sciences of $0.3 billion. Net sales of reportable segment and Hemlock and Emerging Growth Businesses are discussed in detail in the “Segment Analysis” section of our MD&A. 30 Core Net Income For the year ended December 31, 2023, we generated core net income of $1.5 billion, or $1.70 per share, compared to core net income generated for the year ended December 31, 2022 of $1.8 billion, or $2.09 per share. The decrease in core net income of $331 million was driven by lower reportable segment net income in Optical Communications of $183 million, Specialty Materials of $138 million and Life Sciences of $103 million, offset by an increase in Environmental Technologies of $94 million and Display Technologies of $73 million. Net income of reportable segment and Hemlock and Emerging Growth Businesses are discussed in detail in the “Segment Analysis” section of our MD&A. Core Earnings per Share Core earnings per share decreased for the year ended December 31, 2023 to $1.70 per share, as a result of the decrease in core net income, as outlined above. The following table sets forth the computation of core earnings per share (in millions, except per share amounts): RECONCILIATION OF NON-GAAP MEASURES We utilize certain financial measures and key performance indicators that are not calculated in accordance with GAAP to assess our financial and operating performance. A non-GAAP financial measure is defined as a numerical measure of a company’s financial performance that (i) excludes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of excluding amounts, that are included in the comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in the consolidated statements of income or statements of cash flows, or (ii) includes amounts, or is subject to adjustments that have the effect of including amounts, that are excluded from the comparable measure as calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in the consolidated statements of income or statements of cash flows. Core net sales, core net income and core earnings per share are non-GAAP financial measures utilized by our management to analyze financial performance without the impact of items that are driven by general economic conditions and events that do not reflect the underlying fundamentals and trends in our operations. See “Items Adjusted from GAAP Measures” for the descriptions of the footnoted reconciling items. 31 The following tables reconcile our non-GAAP financial measures to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measure (amounts in millions, except percentages and per share amounts): See “Items Adjusted from GAAP Measures” for the descriptions of the footnoted reconciling items. 32 Items Adjusted from GAAP Measures Items adjusted from GAAP measures to arrive at core performance measures are as follows: 33 LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Our financial condition and liquidity are strong. We are not aware of any known trends, demands, commitments, events or uncertainties that will result in or that are reasonably likely to result in a material decrease in our liquidity. In addition, other than items discussed, there are no known material trends, favorable or unfavorable, in our capital resources and no expected material changes in the mix of such resources. Our major sources of funding for 2024 and beyond will be our operating cash flow, our existing balances of cash and cash equivalents and proceeds from any issuances of debt. We believe we have sufficient liquidity to fund operations and meet our obligations for the foreseeable future.  Such obligations include requirements for acquisitions, capital expenditures, debt repayments, dividend payments and share repurchase programs. We will continue to generate cash from operations and maintain access to our revolving credit facilities and commercial paper programs as discussed in more detail below. Key Balance Sheet Data We fund our working capital with cash from operations and short-term borrowings, including commercial paper, when necessary. In addition, we receive upfront cash from customers relating to long-term supply agreements, as well as cash incentives from government entities generally for capital expansion and related expenses. The following table presents balance sheet and working capital measures (in millions): We perform comprehensive reviews of our significant customers and their creditworthiness by analyzing their financial strength at least annually or more frequently for customers where we have identified a measure of increased risk. We closely monitor payments and developments to identify potential customer credit issues. We are not aware of any customer credit issues that could have a material impact on our liquidity. We participate in accounts receivable management programs, including factoring arrangements to sell certain accounts receivable to third-party financial institutions or accelerate collections through our customer’s supply chain financing arrangements. Sales of accounts receivable are reflected as a reduction of accounts receivable in the consolidated balance sheets and the proceeds are included in cash flows from operating activities in the consolidated statements of cash flows. By utilizing these types of programs, we have accelerated the collection of $1.5 billion and $1.6 billion of accounts receivable cumulatively throughout the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Of these amounts, we believe $1.2 billion would have been collected during the normal course of business within each year ended December 31, 2023 and 2022. 34 Cash Flows The following table presents a summary of cash flow data (in millions): Net cash provided by operating activities decreased by $610 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, when compared to the same period in the prior year, primarily driven by the decrease in net income partially offset by improvements in working capital, mostly due to the reduction in inventory levels. Net cash used in investing activities improved by $355 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, when compared to the same period last year, primarily driven by lower capital expenditures of $214 million, lower premiums paid on hedging contracts of $66 million and higher realized gains on translated earnings contracts of $26 million. Net cash used in financing activities improved by $766 million for the year ended December 31, 2023, when compared to the same period last year, primarily driven by the $918 million proceeds received from the issuance of euro-denominated notes in May 2023 and the purchase of common stock during the year ended December 31, 2022 of $221 million compared to no purchases of common stock made during year ended December 31, 2023. These financing cash flow improvements were partially offset by increased debt repayments of $197 million made during the year ended December 31, 2023. Sources of Liquidity We generate strong ongoing cash flows from operations, which is our principal source of liquidity. During the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, cash flows provided by operating activities were $2.0 billion and $2.6 billion, respectively. As of December 31, 2023, our cash and cash equivalents and available credit capacity included (in millions): Cash and Cash Equivalents We ended 2023 with $1.8 billion of cash and cash equivalents. Our cash and cash equivalents are held in various locations throughout the world and are generally unrestricted. We utilize a variety of strategies to ensure that our worldwide cash is available in the locations in which it is needed. As of December 31, 2023, approximately 60% of the consolidated cash and cash equivalents were held outside the U.S. During the year ended December 31, 2023, the Company distributed an immaterial amount from foreign subsidiaries to their respective U.S. parent companies. As of December 31, 2023, Corning had approximately $1.4 billion of indefinitely reinvested foreign earnings. If we distribute our foreign cash balances to the U.S. or to other foreign subsidiaries, we could be required to accrue and pay withholding taxes. We do not foresee a need to repatriate any earnings for which we asserted permanent reinvestment. However, to help fund cash needs of the U.S. or other international subsidiaries as they arise, we repatriate available cash from certain foreign subsidiaries whose earnings are not permanently reinvested. 35 Debt Facilities and Other Sources of Liquidity We have a commercial paper program pursuant to which we may issue short-term, unsecured commercial paper notes up to a maximum aggregate principal amount outstanding at any one time of $1.5 billion. Under this program, we may issue commercial paper from time to time and will use the proceeds for general corporate purposes.  As of December 31, 2023, we did not have any commercial paper outstanding. Our $1.5 billion Revolving Credit Agreement is available to support obligations under the commercial paper program and for general corporate purposes, if needed. There were no outstanding amounts under this facility as of December 31, 2023 and 2022. In addition, we had a 25 billion Japanese yen liquidity facility, which was scheduled to mature in 2025. In the fourth quarter of 2023, the 25 billion Japanese yen liquidity facility was terminated. There were never any amounts outstanding under this facility. Our Revolving Credit Agreement includes affirmative and negative covenants with which we must comply, including a leverage (debt to capital ratio) financial covenant. The required leverage ratio is a maximum of 60%. As of December 31, 2023, our leverage using this measure was approximately 39%. As of December 31, 2023, we were in compliance with all such covenants. Our debt instruments contain customary event of default provisions, which allow the lenders the option of accelerating all obligations upon the occurrence of certain events. In addition, some of our debt instruments contain a cross default provision, whereby an uncured default exceeding a specified amount on one debt obligation, also would be considered a default under the terms of another debt instrument. As of December 31, 2023, we were in compliance with all such provisions. We have access to certain Chinese yuan-denominated unsecured variable rate loan facilities, whose proceeds are used for capital investment and general corporate purposes. As of December 31, 2023, borrowings totaled $293 million and these facilities had variable interest rates ranging from 3.2% to 4.1% and maturities ranging from 2024 to 2032. As of December 31, 2023, Corning had 779 million Chinese yuan of unused capacity, equivalent to approximately $110 million. On May 15, 2023, the Company issued €300 million 3.875% Notes due 2026 (“2026 Notes”) and €550 million 4.125% Notes due 2031 (“2031 Notes”). The proceeds from the 2026 Notes and 2031 Notes were received in euros and converted to U.S. dollars on the date of issuance.  The net proceeds received were approximately $918 million and will be used for general corporate purposes. As of December 31, 2023, the U.S. dollar equivalent carrying value of the euro-denominated long-term debt was $932 million. As a well-known seasoned issuer, we filed an automatic shelf registration with the SEC on December 1, 2023. Under this shelf registration we may offer, from time to time, debt securities, common stock, preferred stock, depositary shares and warrants. Customer Deposits, Deferred Revenue and Government Incentives We receive cash deposits or consideration, generally non-refundable, from customers under long-term supply agreements. In addition, we receive incentives from government entities, typically in the form of cash incentives primarily to offset capital expenditures or related expenses. For the years ended December 31, 2023 and 2022, the amounts received from these types of arrangements were $0.3 billion and $0.4 billion, respectively. Refer to Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies) and Note 3 (Revenue) in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. 36 Uses of Cash Fixed Rate Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, Series A We had 2,300 outstanding shares of Fixed Rate Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, Series A (the “Preferred Stock”) as of December 31, 2020. On January 16, 2021, the Preferred Stock became convertible into 115 million common shares. On April 5, 2021 we executed the Share Repurchase Agreement (“SRA”) with Samsung Display Co., Ltd. (“SDC”) and the Preferred Stock was fully converted as of April 8, 2021. Immediately following the conversion, we repurchased and retired 35 million of the common shares held by SDC for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $1.5 billion, of which approximately $507 million was paid in April in each of 2023, 2022 and 2021. Pursuant to the SRA, with respect to the remaining 80 million common shares outstanding held by SDC: Refer to Note 14 (Shareholders’ Equity) in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. Share Repurchases In 2019, the Board authorized the repurchase of up to $5.0 billion of additional common stock upon the completion of the 2018 repurchase plan (“2019 Authorization”). In addition to the common shares repurchased under the SRA, as discussed above, we repurchased 6.0 million shares of common stock under our 2019 Authorization for approximately $221 million, respectively, during the year ended December 31, 2022. No shares were repurchased under our 2019 Authorization during the year ended December 31, 2023. As of December 31, 2023, approximately $3.3 billion remains available under our 2019 Authorization, which does not have an expiration date and may be amended or terminated by the Board of Directors at any time without prior notice. Common Stock Dividends During the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, total dividends paid to common shareholders were $989 million, $932 million and $871 million, respectively. The Board’s decision to declare and pay future dividends will depend on our income and liquidity position, among other factors. We expect to declare quarterly dividends and fund payments with cash from operations. On February 7, 2024, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.28 per share of common stock, beginning with the dividend paid in the first quarter of 2024. The dividend will be payable on March 28, 2024. Capital Expenditures Capital expenditures were $1.4 billion, $1.6 billion and $1.6 billion during the years ended December 31, 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. We expect our 2024 capital expenditures to be lower than 2023. Current Maturities of Short and Long-Term Debt In the fourth quarter of 2023, Corning repurchased ¥14.7 billion (equivalent to $100 million) of ¥9.8 billion 0.992% notes due 2027 and ¥4.9 billion 1.043% notes due 2028. As of December 31, 2023, we had $320 million of long-term debt that is due in less than one year. The maturity schedule of our existing long-term debt does not require significant cash outflows, with approximately $1.4 billion due over the next five years. Defined Benefit Pension Plans Our global pension plans, including our unfunded and non-qualified plans, were 81% funded as of December 31, 2023. Our largest single pension plan is our U.S. qualified plan, which accounted for 77% of our consolidated defined benefit pension plans’ projected benefit obligation, was 92% funded as of December 31, 2023. 37 The funded status of our pension plans is dependent upon multiple factors including actuarial assumptions, interest rates at year-end, prior investment returns and contributions made to the plans. During the year ended December 31, 2023, Corning made no voluntary contributions to our domestic defined benefit pension plan and cash contributions to our international pension plans were $25 million. During 2024, the Company anticipates making cash contributions of $11 million to the international pension plans. Refer to Note 11 (Employee Retirement Plans) in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees A summary of our contractual obligations and other commercial commitments as of December 31, 2023 are detailed within Note 12 (Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees) in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Off balance sheet arrangements are transactions, agreements, or other contractual arrangements with an unconsolidated entity for which we have an obligation to the entity that is not recorded in our consolidated financial statements. Our off balance sheet arrangements include guarantee and indemnity contracts. At the time a guarantee is issued, we are required to recognize a liability for the fair value or market value of the obligation it assumes. In the normal course of our business, we do not routinely provide significant third-party guarantees. Generally, third-party guarantees provided by us are limited to certain financial guarantees, including stand-by letters of credit and performance bonds. These guarantees have various terms and none of these guarantees are individually significant. We believe a significant majority of these guarantees and contingent liabilities will expire without being funded. Refer to Note 12 (Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees) in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. ENVIRONMENT Refer to Item 3. Legal Proceedings or Note 12 (Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees) in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements for information. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. This requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts and related disclosures. Actual results could differ from those estimates. The following estimates are considered by management to be the most critical to the understanding of the consolidated financial statements as they require significant judgments that could materially impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Impairment of assets held for use We are required to assess the recoverability of the carrying value of long-lived assets when an indicator of impairment has been identified. We perform this review each quarter and exercise judgment in assessing whether impairment indicators are present. Manufacturing equipment includes certain components of production equipment that are constructed of precious metals, primarily platinum and rhodium. These metals are not depreciated because they have very low physical losses and are repeatedly reclaimed and reused in our manufacturing process over a very long useful life. The physical loss of precious metals in the manufacturing and reclamation process is treated as depletion and these losses are accounted for as a period expense based on actual units lost. Precious metals are reviewed for impairment as part of our assessment of long-lived assets. This review considers all our precious metals that are either in place in the production process; in reclamation, fabrication, or refinement in anticipation of re-use; or awaiting use to support increased capacity. Precious metals are only acquired to support our operations and are not held for trading or other non-manufacturing related purposes. 38 Examples of events or circumstances that may be indicative of impairments include, but are not limited to: For purposes of recognition and measurement of an impairment loss, a long-lived asset or assets is grouped with other assets and liabilities at the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities. We must exercise judgment in assessing the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities. Our assessment is performed at the operating segment level. For most of our operating segments, we concluded that locations or businesses within these segments which share production along the supply chain must be combined to appropriately identify cash flows that are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities. For long-lived assets, when impairment indicators are present, we compare estimated undiscounted future cash flows, including the eventual disposition of the asset group at market value, to the assets’ carrying value to determine if the asset group is recoverable. This assessment requires the exercise of judgment in assessing the future use of and projected value to be derived from the assets to be held and used. Assessments also consider changes in asset utilization, including the temporary idling of capacity and the expected timing for placing this capacity back into production. For an asset group that fails the test of recoverability, the estimated fair value of long-lived assets is determined using an “income approach” that starts with the forecast of all the expected future net cash flows, including the eventual disposition at market value of long-lived assets, and considers the fair market value of all precious metals, if applicable. If there is an impairment, a loss is recorded to reflect the difference between the assets’ fair value and carrying value. Our estimates are based upon our historical experience, our commercial relationships and available external information about future trends. We believe fair value assessments are most sensitive to market growth and the corresponding impact on volume and selling prices and that these are also more subjective than manufacturing cost and other assumptions. We believe our current assumptions and estimates are reasonable and appropriate. Income taxes We are required to exercise judgment about our future results in assessing the realizability of our deferred tax assets. Inherent in this estimation process is the requirement for us to estimate future book and taxable income and possible tax planning strategies. These estimates require us to exercise judgment about our future results, the prudence and feasibility of possible tax planning strategies and the economic environments in which we do business. It is possible that actual results will differ from assumptions and require adjustments to allowances. We record uncertain tax positions only when they are believed to have a less than 50% likelihood of being sustained on their technical merits and then only to the extent of the amount of tax benefit that is less than 50% likely of being realized upon settlement. In estimating these amounts, we must exercise judgment around factors such as the weighting of the tax law in our favor or alternatively, consider a negotiated compromise, and our willingness to dispute a tax authorities’ assertion to the level of appeal we believe is required to sustain our position. As a result, it is possible that our estimate of the benefits we will realize for uncertain tax positions may change when we become aware of new information affecting these judgments and estimates. 39 Fair value measures As required, we use two kinds of inputs to determine the fair value of assets and liabilities: observable and unobservable. Observable inputs are based on market data or independent sources, while unobservable inputs are based on our own market assumptions. Once inputs have been characterized, we prioritize the inputs used to measure fair value into one of three broad levels. Characterization of fair value inputs is required for those accounting pronouncements that prescribe or permit fair value measurement. In addition, observable market data must be used when available and the highest-and-best-use measure should be applied to non-financial assets. Our major categories of financial assets and liabilities required to be measured at fair value are short-term and long-term investments, certain pension asset investments and derivatives. These categories use observable inputs only and are measured using a market approach based on quoted prices in markets considered active or in markets in which there are few transactions. Derivative assets and liabilities may include foreign exchange forward contracts and foreign exchange option contracts that are measured using observable quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities. Included in our foreign exchange forward contracts and foreign exchange option contracts are foreign currency hedges that hedge our cash flow and translation exposure resulting from movements in the Japanese yen, South Korean won, New Taiwan dollar, Chinese yuan, British pound, and euro.  In arriving at the fair value of our derivative assets and liabilities, we have considered the appropriate valuation and risk criteria, including such factors as credit risk of the relevant party to the transaction.  Amounts related to credit risk are not material. Refer to Note 13 (Financial Instruments) in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. Probability of litigation ou tcomes We are required to make judgments about future events that are inherently uncertain. In making determinations of likely outcomes of litigation matters, we consider the evaluation of legal counsel knowledgeable about each matter, case law and other case-specific issues. Refer to Item 3. Legal Proceedings or Note 12 (Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees) in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of Corning’s material litigation matters. Pension and other postretirement employee benefits (“OPEB” ) We offer employee retirement plans consisting of defined benefit pension plans covering certain domestic and international employees and postretirement plans that provide health care and life insurance benefits for eligible retirees and dependents. The costs and obligations related to these benefits reflect our assumptions related to general economic conditions (particularly interest rates), expected return on plan assets, rate of compensation increase for employees and health care trend rates. The cost of providing plan benefits depends on demographic assumptions including retirements, mortality, turnover and plan participation. While management believes that the assumptions used are appropriate, differences in actual experience or changes in assumptions may affect our employee pension and other postretirement obligations, and current and future expense. The following table presents our actual and expected return (loss) on assets, as well as the corresponding percentages (in millions, except percentages): As of December 31, 2023, the Projected Benefit Obligation (“PBO”) for U.S. pension plans was $3.3 billion. 40 The following table presents the estimated increases (decreases) in future ongoing pension expense and projected benefit obligation assuming a 25 basis point change in the key assumptions for our U.S. pension plans (in millions): The above sensitivities reflect the impact of changing one assumption at a time. Economic factors and conditions often affect multiple assumptions simultaneously and the effects of changes in key assumptions are not necessarily linear. These changes in assumptions would have no effect on our funding requirements. The following table presents the estimated increases (decreases) in future ongoing pension expense and the Accumulated Postretirement Benefit obligation (“APBO”) assuming a 25 basis point change in the key assumptions for our U.S. OPEB plans (in millions): The above sensitivities reflect the impact of changing one assumption at a time. Economic factors and conditions often affect multiple assumptions simultaneously and the effects of changes in key assumptions are not necessarily linear. Refer to Note 11 (Employee Retirement Plans) in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS Refer to Note 1 (Summary of Significant Accounting Policies) in the accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. 41 FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS The statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, in reports subsequently filed by Corning with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on Forms 10-Q and 8-K and related comments by management that are not historical facts or information and contain words such as “will,” “believe,” “anticipate,” “expect,” “intend,” “plan,” “seek,” “see,” “would,” “target,” “estimate,” “forecast” or similar expressions are forward-looking statements. Such statements relate to future events that by their nature address matters that are, to different degrees, uncertain. These forward-looking statements relate to, among other things, the Company’s future operating performance, the Company’s share of new and existing markets, the Company’s revenue and earnings growth rates, the Company’s ability to innovate and commercialize new products, the Company’s expected capital expenditure and the Company’s implementation of cost-reduction initiatives and measures to improve pricing, including the optimization of the Company’s manufacturing capacity. Although the Company believes that these forward-looking statements are based upon reasonable assumptions regarding, among other things, current estimates and forecasts, general economic conditions, its knowledge of its business and key performance indicators that impact the Company, there can be no assurance that these forward-looking statements will prove to be accurate, as actual results and future events could differ materially from those anticipated in such statements.  The Company undertakes no obligation to update forward-looking statements if circumstances or management’s estimates or opinions should change except as required by applicable securities laws. Some of the risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to: 42