********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

The risks described below are not the only ones facing our company. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks occur, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially adversely affected. Risks Related to the Company If we are not successful in the continued development, timely manufacture, and introduction of new products or product categories, overall demand for our products could decrease to the extent that lost sales and profits are not entirely offset. We expect that a significant portion of our future revenue will continue to be derived from sales of newly introduced products. The market for our products is characterized by rapidly changing technology, evolving industry standards and regulations and changes in customer needs. If we fail to introduce new products, or to modify or improve our existing products, in response to changes in technology, industry standards, regulatory requirements or customer needs, our products could rapidly become less competitive or obsolete. We must continue to make significant investments in research and development in order to continue to develop new products, enhance existing products and achieve market acceptance for such products. However, there can be no assurance that development stage products will be successfully completed or, if developed, will achieve significant customer acceptance. If we are unable to successfully develop and introduce competitive new products, and enhance our existing products, our future results of operations would be materially adversely affected. Our pursuit of necessary technology may require substantial time and expense. We may need to license new technologies to respond to technological change. These licenses may not be available to us on terms that we can accept or may materially change the gross profits that we are able to obtain on our products. We may not succeed in adapting our products to new technologies as they emerge. Development and manufacturing schedules for technology products are difficult to predict, and there can be no assurance that we will achieve timely initial customer shipments of new products. The timely availability of these products in volume and their acceptance by customers are important to our future success. Any future challenges related to new products, whether due to product development delays, manufacturing delays, supply chain constraints, lack of market acceptance, delays in regulatory approval, or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If we are unable to compete effectively with existing or new competitors, the associated loss of competitive position could result in price reductions, fewer customer orders, reduced margins and loss of market share. The markets for many of our products and services are highly competitive, and we expect competition to increase in the future. Some of our competitors have significantly greater financial, technical and marketing resources than we do. These competitors have been able to replicate certain features offered by some of our products and services or respond more rapidly to emerging technologies or changes in customer requirements. They may also be able to devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of their products or secure better product positioning with retailers. Increased competition could result in price reductions, fewer customer orders, reduced margins and loss of market share. Our failure to compete successfully against current or future competitors could seriously harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Maturation or contraction of the market for wearable devices or categories of these devices could adversely affect our revenue and profits. We have experienced periods of annual growth in sales and profits in our outdoor and fitness segments, which have benefited from increased sales of wearable devices. However, we have also experienced periods of declines in sales and profits in these segments. If the overall wearable device market declines, or categories of devices within the wearable device market decline significantly, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially adversely affected. 13 We may experience unique economic and political risks associated with companies that operate in Taiwan. Our principal manufacturing facilities for consumer products are located in Taiwan. The People’s Republic of China, also referred to as the PRC, asserts sovereignty over all of China, including Taiwan, certain other islands, and all of mainland China. The PRC government does not recognize the legitimacy of the Taiwan government. Although significant economic and cultural relations exist between Taiwan and the PRC, the PRC government has indicated that it may use military force to gain control over Taiwan in certain circumstances, such as the declaration of independence by Taiwan. There is also a risk that the PRC government may unilaterally seek to occupy Taiwan, by force if necessary, without a clear triggering event. In this scenario, Garmin’s manufacturing facilities and suppliers based in Taiwan could be subject to disruptions that could have a material negative impact to our operations. The United States' relations with Taiwan are governed by the 1979 Taiwan Relations Act, which signifies when the U.S. switched diplomatic recognition from Taiwan to the PRC, referred to as the "one-China" policy. Deviations from the "one-China" policy or other conflicts or disputes could lead to adverse changes in China-U.S. and China-Taiwan relations and could materially adversely affect our manufacturing operations and suppliers based in Taiwan, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and the market price and the liquidity of our shares. We have made and expect to continue making significant investments in the auto OEM operating segment, which will continue to negatively impact total Company profits and may negatively impact shareholder value if the operating segment fails to become profitable. We have been awarded several tier-one and tier-two auto OEM supplier contracts. To fulfill the associated program commitments, we have invested significantly in facilities, research and development, and other operating expenses and expect to continue doing so. Operating margins associated with these auto OEM programs will negatively impact consolidated operating margin as auto OEM revenue increases as a percentage of consolidated revenue. If we are not successful in winning additional contracts and substantially leveraging our past and future investments, operating losses in the auto OEM segment will continue to negatively impact total Company profits and may negatively impact shareholder value. We may incur substantial restructuring costs if we are unable to generate profits from auto OEM contracts. Our results of operations and financial condition are subject to fluctuations in foreign currency translation. The movement of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. Dollar affects the U.S. Dollar value of our foreign currency-denominated sales. The weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. Dollar has had and may in the future have a significant adverse effect on our revenue, gross margin, and profitability, or may cause us to raise international pricing, which has reduced and may continue to reduce demand for certain of our products in certain countries. Conversely, a strengthening of certain foreign currencies relative to the U.S. Dollar would increase product costs and operating expenses denominated in those currencies, which could materially adversely affect profitability. We have not historically used financial instruments to hedge our foreign currency exchange rate risks. We have experienced significant foreign currency gains and losses due to the strengthening and weakening of the U.S. Dollar relative to certain other currencies. The majority of our consolidated foreign currency gain or loss is typically driven by exchange rate impacts on the significant cash, receivables, and payables held in a currency other than the functional currency at a given legal entity. Such gain or loss will create variations in our earnings per share. However, because there is minimal cash impact caused by such exchange rate variations, management expects to continue to focus on our operating performance before the impact of foreign currency gains and losses. Public health emergencies, including epidemics or pandemics, could have significant impacts on our business. Widespread public health emergencies, including epidemics or pandemics, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, have significantly affected, and may in the future significantly affect, our business due to their impact on the economy and the demand for our products and services, disruptions to our operations, supply chain and sales and distribution channels, and government-imposed restrictions. Additional risks, including gross margin fluctuation, foreign currency fluctuations, product development challenges, impacts to our key personnel, and dependencies on third party suppliers, may be heightened as a result of a widespread public health emergency. If we were unable to manage these risks effectively, our business, financial condition, and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 14 We depend on third party suppliers and licensors, some of which are sole source, for technology and components used in our products. Our production and business would be seriously harmed if these suppliers or licensors are not able to meet our demand and alternative sources are not available, or if the costs of components rise. We are dependent on third party suppliers for various components used in our current products. Some of the components that we procure from third party suppliers include semiconductors, liquid crystal displays, memory chips, batteries and microprocessors. The availability of high-quality components at reasonable cost is essential to the successful production and sale of our products. Some components we use are from sole source suppliers. We have experienced and may in the future experience shortages of certain components as well as delays in procuring certain components. In addition, a shortage in supply of components may result in an increase of the costs of procuring these components. If suppliers are unable to meet our demand for components on a timely basis or if we are unable to obtain components from an alternative source, or if the price of alternative components is prohibitive, our ability to maintain timely and cost-effective production of our products would be seriously harmed. Our products are also dependent on certain licensed technology and content. If we are unable to continue sourcing such technology and content from our licensors and are unable to obtain an alternative source, or if our relationships with our licensors change detrimentally, our ability to provide certain features in our products would be seriously harmed. Our business and reputation have been and are expected to continue to be impacted by information technology system failures and network disruptions. The Company and its global supply chain have experienced and are expected to continue to be exposed to information technology system failures and network disruptions including those caused by natural disasters, accidents, power disruptions, telecommunications failures, acts of terrorism or war, computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, and ransomware or other cybersecurity incidents. We have technology and processes in place designed to detect and respond to such failures and disruptions. However, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems, and the nature of other potential incidents change frequently and may be difficult to detect for long periods of time, our detection and response measures may be ineffective or inadequate. Furthermore, even with appropriate training conducted in support of such measures, human errors and omissions may still occur resulting in system failures and/or disruptions to our information technology infrastructure. Therefore, the Company’s business continuity and disaster recovery planning, or those of others in our global supply chain, may not be able to sufficiently mitigate all threats. Such failures or disruptions can materially adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations, and financial condition through, among other things, a disruption of internal operations, including order processing, invoicing, and manufacturing and distribution of products, and a loss of functionality of critical systems and online services. Actual or anticipated attacks and risks have caused, and are expected to continue to cause, us to incur increasing costs, including costs to deploy additional personnel and protection technologies, to conduct additional employee training, and to engage third party security experts and consultants. Although we maintain cyber insurance coverage that, subject to policy terms and conditions and significant self-insured retentions, is designed to address certain aspects of cyber risks, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses or all types of claims that may arise. 15 Losses or unauthorized access to or releases of proprietary or confidential information, including personal information, could result in significant reputational, financial, legal, and operational consequences. We have experienced, and are expected to continue to experience, malicious attacks and other attempts to gain unauthorized access to our systems that seek to compromise the confidentiality, integrity or availability of proprietary and confidential information. A breach of our security systems and procedures or those of others in our global supply chain could result in significant data losses or theft of our intellectual property, confidential and proprietary information, or that of our business partners, as well as our users’ or employees' personal information, which could compromise our competitive position, reputation, operating results, and financial condition. Also, if we fail to reasonably maintain the security of our intellectual property, confidential and proprietary information, or that of our business partners, or the personal information of our users or employees, we may be subject to private litigation, government investigations, regulatory proceedings, enforcement actions, and cause us to incur potentially significant liability, damages, or remediation costs. Although we maintain cyber insurance coverage that, subject to policy terms and conditions and significant self-insured retentions, is designed to address certain aspects of cyber risks, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses or all types of claims that may arise. Our business would suffer if we are not able to hire and retain sufficient qualified personnel or if we lose our key personnel. Our future success depends significantly on the continued contribution of our key executive, engineering, sales, marketing, manufacturing, and administrative personnel. Recruiting and retaining the skilled personnel we require to maintain and grow our market position has been and is expected to continue to be difficult. The overall shortage in qualified workforce personnel combined with the increased willingness of companies to hire such personnel in fully remote positions has increased and in the future may continue to increase our compensation costs in order for us to retain such personnel. If we fail to hire and retain qualified employees, our business and growth prospects will be harmed. We currently do not have employment agreements with any of our key executive officers. Swiss law prohibits us from paying certain severance payments to our senior executive officers, which may impair our ability to recruit for these positions. We do not have key person life insurance on any of our key executive officers and do not currently intend to obtain such insurance. The loss of the services of any of our senior level management, or other key employees, could harm our business. Changes in applicable tax laws or resolutions of tax disputes could result in adverse tax consequences to the Company. Our tax positions could be adversely impacted by changes to tax laws, tax treaties, or tax regulations or the interpretation or enforcement thereof by any tax authority in which we file income tax returns, particularly in the U.S., Switzerland, Taiwan, and United Kingdom (U.K.). We cannot predict the outcome of any specific legislative proposals. Global taxing standards have evolved as a result of the Organization for Economic Co-Operation and Development (OECD) recommendations aimed at preventing perceived base erosion and profit shifting (BEPS) by multinational corporations. The OECD issued a statement regarding a two-pillar solution which includes within “Pillar Two” a global minimum tax. Numerous countries have signed onto the OECD statement including Switzerland, the U.S., and the U.K. In 2023, Switzerland’s Federal Council passed legislation that would implement a minimum tax in Switzerland of 15% in 2024, and the Swiss canton of Schaffhausen has also passed legislation that would increase the cantonal corporate tax rate beginning in 2024, resulting in a combined federal and cantonal statutory tax rate of approximately 15% in Switzerland. Additionally, many other countries have proposed or enacted Pillar Two legislation in jurisdictions in which Garmin operates. Partially to respond to changes to global tax standards, we initiated an intercompany transaction in 2020 which migrates ownership of certain intellectual property from Switzerland to the United States, which is the company's primary location for research, development and executive management. At the end of this migration, a higher percentage of income will be recognized in the U.S. Due to the subjectivity inherent in transfer pricing associated with this intercompany transaction, we are pursuing an advanced pricing agreement with relevant jurisdictions to provide certainty regarding the pricing. The ultimate outcome and effects of the final advanced pricing agreement are not yet known. 16 The implementation of certain tax legislation described above, the negotiations and final outcome of the advanced pricing agreement, or both, could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s future income tax provision, effective tax rate, and financial statements. Additionally, significant judgment is required in determining our global provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain, most notably in the area of transfer pricing. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. The results of an audit or litigation could have a material effect on our income tax provision, net income, or cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made. If we do not correctly anticipate demand for our products, we may not be able to secure sufficient quantities or cost-effective production of our products or we could have costly excess production or inventories. The demand for our products depends on many factors and may be difficult to forecast due to our increasingly diverse product portfolio, intensifying competition in the markets for our products, and the maturing of markets for some of our products. Significant unanticipated fluctuations in demand have caused and could in the future cause the following challenges to our operations: • If demand increases beyond what we forecast, we may not be able to adequately increase production to meet demand. We would depend on suppliers to provide additional volumes of components and those suppliers might not be able to increase production rapidly enough, due to supply chain issues or other constraints, to meet unexpected demand. • Additionally, rapid increases in production levels to meet unanticipated demand could result in higher costs for manufacturing and supply of components, higher freight costs associated with urgent distribution of the products, and other expenses. These higher costs could lower our profit margins. Further, if production is increased rapidly, manufacturing quality could decline, which may also lower our margins and reduce customer satisfaction. • If forecasted demand does not develop, we could have excess inventories of finished products and components, which would use cash and could lead to write-offs of some or all of the excess inventories. Lower than forecasted demand could also result in excess manufacturing capacity or reduced manufacturing efficiencies at our facilities, which could result in lower margins. Changes to trade regulations, including trade restrictions, sanctions, tariffs, or duties, could significantly harm our results of operations. Trade and other international disputes can result in tariffs, duties, sanctions, and other measures that restrict international trade and can adversely affect our business. For example, tensions between the U.S. and the PRC have led to a series of tariffs being imposed by the U.S. on imports from the PRC. Many other countries have considered or imposed similar measures. Certain of our products are subject to tariffs and duties imposed by customs authorities of the countries in which they are imported. Those duties and tariffs are based on the classifications of those products, which are routinely subject to review by the customs authorities. We are unable to predict whether those authorities will change the determination of the classifications of our products. Any such changes could result in additional duties, tariffs or other restrictions on the importation of our products. The imposition of additional governmental controls or regulations that create new or enhanced restrictions on free trade, trade sanctions, tariffs, or duties could have a substantial adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Economic, regulatory, and political conditions and uncertainty could adversely affect our revenue and profits. Our revenue and profits depend significantly on general economic conditions and the demand for products in the markets in which we compete. We have operations outside the United States that make up a significant portion of our total revenue, which can present challenges depending on economic and geopolitical conditions on both a global and regional scale. Economic weakness or constrained consumer and business spending has resulted in periods of decreased revenue in the past, and could in the future result in decreased revenue and problems with our ability to manage inventory levels and collect customer receivables. In addition, financial difficulties experienced by our retailers and OEM customers have resulted, and could result in the future, in significant bad debt write-offs and additions to reserves in our receivables and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 17 Gross margins for our products may fluctuate or erode. Gross margins in some of our segments are volatile and could decline in the future due to competitive price reductions that are not fully offset by material cost reductions. In addition, our overall gross margin may fluctuate from period to period due to a number of other factors, including product mix, foreign exchange rates, freight and component costs, manufacturing facility utilization, and unit volumes. In particular, the average selling prices of a specific product tend to decrease over that product’s life. To offset such decreases, we intend to rely primarily on component cost reduction, obtaining yield improvements and corresponding cost reductions in the manufacturing of existing products and on introducing new products that incorporate advanced features and therefore can be sold at higher average selling prices. However, there can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain any such yield improvements or cost reductions or introduce any such new products in the future. To the extent that such cost reductions and new product introductions do not occur in a timely manner or our products do not achieve market acceptance, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our intellectual property rights are important to our operations, and we could suffer loss if they infringe upon others’ rights or are infringed upon by others. We rely on a combination of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. To this end, we hold rights to a number of patents and registered trademarks and regularly file applications to attempt to protect our rights in new technology and trademarks. However, there is no guarantee that our patent applications will become issued patents, or that our trademark applications will become registered trademarks. In addition, effective copyright, patent and trade secret protection may be unavailable, limited or not applied for in certain countries. Moreover, even if approved, our patents or trademarks may thereafter be successfully challenged by others or otherwise become invalidated for a variety of reasons. Thus, any patents or trademarks we currently have or may later acquire may not provide us a significant competitive advantage. The value of our products relies substantially on our technical innovation in fields in which there are many patent filings. Third parties have claimed and may in the future claim that we or our customers (some of whom are indemnified by us) are infringing their intellectual property rights. For example, individuals and groups have purchased and may in future purchase intellectual property assets for the purpose of asserting claims of infringement and attempting to extract settlements from us or our customers. The number of these claims has increased in recent years and may continue to increase in the future. Such claims could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. From time to time, we receive communications alleging infringement of patents, trademarks or other intellectual property rights and we have been, and currently are, a defendant in lawsuits alleging patent infringement. Litigation concerning patents or other intellectual property is costly and time consuming and at the present time cost-effective insurance is not available. We may seek licenses from such parties, but they could refuse to grant us a license or demand commercially unreasonable terms. Such infringement claims could also cause us to incur substantial liabilities and to suspend or permanently cease the use of critical technologies or processes or the production or sale of major products. Our products and services may be affected by design and manufacturing defects that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our products and services, or those of our OEM customers in which our products are installed, could be affected by design and manufacturing defects. There can be no assurance we will be able to detect and fix all issues and defects in our products and services, and may have limited ability to respond to those impacting our OEM customers. Failure to do so can result in recalls, product replacements or modifications, reputational harm, and significant warranty and other expenses, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. If our products malfunction or contain errors or defects, we could also be subject to significant liability for personal injury and property damage and, under certain circumstances, could be subject to a judgment for punitive damages. We maintain insurance against accident-related risks involving our products. However, there can be no assurance that such insurance would be sufficient to cover the cost of litigation or damages to others or that such insurance will continue to be available at commercially reasonable rates. In addition, insurance coverage may not cover awards of punitive damages and may not cover the cost of associated legal fees and defense costs, which could result in lower margins. If we are unable to maintain sufficient insurance to cover product liability costs or if our insurance coverage does not cover the award, this could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 18 We have claims and lawsuits against us that may result in adverse outcomes. We are subject to a variety of claims and lawsuits. Adverse outcomes in some or all of these claims may result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business. Litigation and other claims are subject to inherent uncertainties and the outcomes can be difficult to predict. Management may not adequately reserve for a contingent liability, or we may suffer unforeseen liabilities, which could then impact the results of a financial period. A material adverse impact on our consolidated financial statements could occur for the period in which the effect of an unfavorable final outcome becomes probable and reasonably estimable or in which we otherwise incur a loss in excess of our reserves and could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our products may contain undetected security vulnerabilities, which could result in damage to our reputation, lost revenue, diverted development resources, increased warranty claims, and litigation. Undiscovered vulnerabilities in our products could expose them to hackers or other unscrupulous third parties who develop and deploy viruses and other malicious software programs that could attack our products. Actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products could harm our reputation and lead some customers to return products, to reduce or delay future purchases, or use competing products. As a business that operates worldwide, we are subject to complex and changing global laws and regulations, which exposes the Company to potential liabilities, increased costs and other adverse effects on our business. Our global operations are subject to complex and changing laws and regulations, including those in the following areas: telecommunications; environmental, health and safety; labor and employment; antitrust; data privacy and security; consumer protection; product liability; anticorruption; import, export and trade; foreign exchange controls; anti–money laundering; and tax. Compliance with these laws and regulations is onerous and expensive, increasing the cost of conducting our global operations. We have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with applicable global laws and regulations, but there can be no assurance that at all times we will be in compliance with all global regulations given their multitude, complexity and ever-changing nature. Our failure to comply with such laws and regulations could materially adversely affect our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is subject to a variety of United States and international laws, regulations and other legal obligations regarding data protection. We collect, store, process, and use personal information and other user data. Our users’ personal information may include, among other information, names, addresses, phone numbers, email addresses, payment account information, height, weight, age, gender, heart rates, sleeping patterns, GPS-based location, and activity patterns. Regulatory authorities and legislative bodies around the world, including in the United States, have enacted or are considering enacting a number of legislative and regulatory proposals concerning data protection. These laws continue to develop and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Complying with these various laws could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. Noncompliance could result in significant penalties, governmental investigations and regulatory proceedings, litigation, harm to our brand, and a decrease in the use of our products and services. Many of these laws provide for significant penalties. Under the General Data Protection Regulation in the European Union, for example, potential penalties can be as high as 4% of a company’s total global revenue. 19 Natural disasters, catastrophic events, or climate change and associated requirements and pressures could affect our financial results. Natural disasters and extreme weather events, such as tsunamis, typhoons, floods, wildfires, or earthquakes, could occur in a region where we have a manufacturing or warehousing facility which could cause disruptions in our business operations, loss of inventory, or affect the sale of our products. Global climate change could also result in certain types of these natural disasters occurring more frequently or with more intense effects. For descriptions and locations of our principal properties, see Item 2, “Properties”. These events could also have an impact on our suppliers and affect our supply chain or our customers and affect the demand for our products. If our backup and recovery plans are not sufficient to minimize business disruption or if our insurance is not sufficient to recover the costs associated with these types of events, our financial results could be adversely affected. Climate change can also pose a risk to our business due to related regulatory and legislative measures, requirements of our OEM customers or other strategic partners, and evolving societal pressures, including pressures to reduce the carbon footprint of the aviation and marine industries, which could negatively impact the market for our products. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency regulates greenhouse gas emissions under the authority granted to it under the Clean Air Act. U.S. Congress, in addition to other regulatory authorities and legislative bodies around the world, could pass further legislation to mandate greenhouse gas emission reduction, implement cap-and-trade programs, or promote renewable energy and energy efficiency. Such measures could influence mobility and transportation trends, which could decrease the demand for certain of our products. If climate change has impacts on natural disasters, the regulatory environment, or societal pressures as discussed above, it could result in a change in demand for certain products in markets that we serve, including auto, aviation, and marine. If we fail to adjust our product and service offerings to respond to new opportunities driven by changes in regulation and/or consumer preferences, it could have an adverse effect on our financial results. Because it is uncertain what laws and regulations will be enacted, we cannot predict the potential impact of such laws and regulations on our future consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Some of our products are subject to governmental regulation or certification. Failure to obtain required certifications of our products on a timely basis, either due to government shutdown or other delays in the certification process, could harm our business. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) certification is required for all of our aviation products that are intended for installation in type-certificated aircraft. To the extent required, certification is an expensive and time-consuming process that requires significant focus and resources. An inability to obtain, or excessive delay in obtaining, such certifications could have an adverse effect on our ability to introduce new products and, for certain aviation OEM products, our customers’ ability to sell airplanes. Delays in our obtaining certification for our aviation products have resulted and may in the future result in our being required to pay compensation to our customers. Additionally, failure of the United States Congress to appropriate funds for FAA operations that results in a shutdown of FAA operations or furloughing of FAA employees, due to partial or complete government shutdowns or otherwise, could result in delays in the required FAA certification of our avionics products and in the production, sale and registration of aircraft that use our avionics products. Therefore, such inabilities or delays could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we cannot assure that our certified products will not be decertified. Any such decertification could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, in accordance with FCC rules and regulations, wireless transceiver products are required to be certified by the FCC in the United States and comparable authorities in foreign countries where they are sold. Garmin’s products sold in Europe are required to comply with relevant directives of the European Commission. A delay in receiving required certifications for new products, or enhancements to Garmin’s products, or losing certification for Garmin’s existing products could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 20 Changes in our United States federal income tax classification, or that of our subsidiaries, could result in adverse tax consequences to our 10% or greater U.S. shareholders. The United States Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “2017 Act”) signed on December 22, 2017 may have changed the consequences to U.S. shareholders that own, or are considered to own, as a result of the attribution rules, ten percent or more of the voting power or value of the stock of a non-U.S. corporation (a 10% U.S. shareholder) under the U.S. federal income tax law applicable to owners of U.S. controlled foreign corporations (“CFCs”). The 2017 Act repealed Internal Revenue Code Section 958(b)(4), which, unless clarified in future regulations or other guidance, may result in classification of certain of the Company’s foreign subsidiaries as CFCs with respect to any single 10% U.S. shareholder. This may be the result without regard to whether 10% U.S. shareholders together own, directly or indirectly, more than fifty percent of the voting power or value of the Company as was the case under prior rules. Additional tax consequences to 10% U.S. shareholders of a CFC may result from other provisions of the 2017 Act. For example, the 2017 Act added Section 951A to the Internal Revenue Code, which requires a 10% U.S. shareholder of a CFC to include in income its pro-rata share of the global intangible low-taxed income (GILTI) of the CFC. The 2017 Act also eliminated the requirement in Section 951(a) necessitating that a foreign corporation be considered a CFC for an uninterrupted period of at least 30 days in order for a 10% U.S. shareholder to have a current income inclusion. From time to time, the Company may elect to employ antidilutive measures such as a share buyback program. These measures could inadvertently create additional 10% U.S. shareholders and thus trigger adverse tax consequences for those shareholders as described above. We urge shareholders to consult their individual tax advisers for advice regarding the 2017 Act revisions to the U.S. federal income tax law applicable to owners of CFCs given the current uncertainty regarding their scope of applicability. Our quarterly operating results are subject to fluctuations and seasonality. Our operating results are difficult to predict. Our future quarterly operating results may fluctuate significantly. If such operating results decline, the price of our shares could decline. As we have expanded our operations, our operating expenses, particularly our research and development and information technology costs, have increased as a percentage of our sales in some periods. If revenues decrease and we continue to increase operating expenses, our operating results would be negatively affected. Historically, our revenues have been lower in the first quarter of each fiscal year as many of our devices are highly consumer-oriented, and consumer buying is traditionally lower in this quarter. However, this can fluctuate based on the timing of new product launches. Sales of certain of our fitness, outdoor, marine, and auto products tend to be higher in our second fiscal quarter due to increased consumer spending for such products in the spring season. Sales of many of our consumer products also have been higher in our fourth fiscal quarter due to increased consumer spending patterns on electronic devices during the holiday season. We rely on independent dealers and distributors to sell our products, and disruption to these channels would harm our business. Because we sell many of our products to independent dealers and distributors, we are subject to many risks, including risks related to their inventory levels and support for our products. If dealers and distributors attempt to reduce their levels of inventory or if they do not maintain sufficient levels to meet customer demand, our sales could be negatively impacted. Many of our dealers and distributors also sell products offered by our competitors. If our competitors offer our dealers and distributors more favorable terms, those dealers and distributors may de-emphasize or decline to carry our products. In the future, we may not be able to retain or attract a sufficient number of qualified dealers and distributors. If we are unable to maintain successful relationships with dealers and distributors or to expand our distribution channels, our business will suffer. Our large customers may also seek to leverage their position to improve their profitability through increased promotional programs or other measures, which could have a negative impact on our gross margin. Additionally, the loss of any large customer could adversely affect our sales and profits. See Note 1 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on concentration of credit risk. 21 We may pursue strategic acquisitions, investments, strategic partnerships or other ventures, and our business could be materially harmed if we fail to successfully identify, evaluate, complete, and integrate such transactions. We continually evaluate acquisition opportunities and opportunities to make investments in complementary businesses, technologies, services or products, or to enter into strategic partnerships with parties who can provide access to those assets, additional product or services offerings, additional distribution or marketing synergies or additional industry expertise. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition, investment or strategic partnership candidates, or if we do identify suitable candidates in the future, we may not be able to complete those transactions on commercially favorable terms, or at all. Any past or future acquisition could also result in difficulties assimilating acquired employees, operations, and products and diversion of capital and management’s attention away from other business issues and opportunities. Integration of acquired companies may result in problems related to integration of technology and inexperienced management teams. Due diligence performed prior to closing acquisitions may not uncover certain risks or liabilities that could materially impact our business and financial results. In addition, the key personnel of the acquired company may decide not to work for us. We may not successfully integrate business, operational, and financial activities such as internal controls, Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 compliance, cyber security measures, the GDPR and other corporate governance and regulatory matters, operations, personnel or products related to acquisitions we may make in the future. If we fail to successfully integrate such transactions, our business could be materially harmed. Our business is subject to disruptions and uncertainties caused by geopolitical instability, war or terrorism. Geopolitical instability, acts of war or acts of terrorism could have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Specifically, the threat of terrorism and war and heightened security and military response to this threat, or any future acts of terrorism, may cause a redeployment of the satellites used in GPS or interruptions of the system. To the extent that such interruptions have an effect on sales of our products, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. A shut down of airspace or imposition of restrictions on general aviation would harm our business. The shutdown of airspace could cause reduced sales of our general aviation products and delays in the shipment of our products manufactured in our Taiwan manufacturing facilities to our global distribution facilities, thereby adversely affecting our ability to supply new and existing products to our dealers and distributors. Many of our products rely on the Global Positioning System and other Global Satellite Navigation Systems (GNSS). The Global Positioning System (GPS) is a satellite-based navigation and positioning system consisting of a constellation of orbiting satellites. The satellites and their ground control and monitoring stations are maintained and operated by the United States Department of Defense. The Department of Defense does not currently charge users for access to the satellite signals. These satellites and their ground support systems are complex electronic systems subject to electronic and mechanical failures and possible sabotage. GPS satellites have a limited lifespan and are subject to damage by the hostile space environment in which they operate. The U.S. Space Force and Missile Systems Center continue to launch new satellites to replace retired and aged satellites. Despite ongoing efforts to repair, maintain and replace non-operational satellites, if a significant number of satellites were to become inoperable, there could be a substantial delay before they are replaced with new satellites. A reduction in the number of operating satellites may impair the current utility of GPS and the growth of current and additional market opportunities. Furthermore, as GPS satellites and ground control segment facilities are being modernized, software updates can cause problems. We depend on public access to open technical specifications in advance of GPS updates. GPS is operated by the U.S. Government, which is committed to maintenance and improvement of GPS; however, if the policy were to change, and commercial access to GPS was no longer supported by the U.S. Government, or if user fees or other restrictions were imposed, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 22 Some of our products also use signals from Satellite Based Augmentation Systems (SBAS) that augment GPS, such as the U.S. Wide Area Augmentation System (WAAS), Japanese MTSAT-based Satellite Augmentation System (MSAS) and European Geostationary Navigation Overlay Service (EGNOS). Some products also use regional satellite systems like the Indian Regional Navigation Satellite System (IRNSS), operating as NavIC (Navigation with Indian Constellation) and Quasi-Zenith Satellite System (QZSS). Any curtailment of SBAS operating capability could result in decreased user capability for many of our aviation products, thereby impacting our markets. Some of our products also use satellite signals from Russia’s GLONASS, the European Union Galileo system, and the Chinese BDS. National or European authorities may provide preferential access to signals to companies associated with their markets, including our competitors, which could harm our competitive position. Use of non-U.S. GNSS signals may also be subject to FCC waiver requirements and to restrictions based upon international trade or geopolitical considerations. If we are unable to develop timely and competitive commercial products using these systems, or obtain timely and equal access to service signals, it could result in lost revenue. We are dependent on the availability and unimpaired use of allocated bands within the radio frequency spectrum; our products may be subject to harmful interference from new or modified spectrum uses. Our Global Positioning System technology is dependent on the use of the Standard Positioning Service (SPS) provided by the U.S. Government’s GPS satellites. GPS operates in radio frequency bands that are globally allocated for radio navigation satellite services. International allocations of radio frequency are made by the International Telecommunications Union (ITU), a specialized technical agency of the United Nations. These allocations are further governed by radio regulations that have treaty status and which may be subject to modification every two to three years by the World Radio Communication Conference. Each country also has regulatory authority on how each band is used. In the United States, the FCC and the National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA) share responsibility for radio frequency allocations and spectrum usage regulations. Our radar altimeter products for aircraft operate in a radio frequency band just above the C-band that has been allocated for 5G mobile wireless systems. There is a risk that 5G telecommunication systems operating in the vicinity of airports could cause harmful interference to radar altimeters resulting in inaccurate altimeter readings or complete altimeter failure. This or any other ITU or national reallocation of radio frequency spectrum, including frequency band segmentation or sharing of spectrum, or other modifications of the permitted uses of relevant frequency bands, may materially and adversely affect the utility and reliability of our products and could have significant negative impacts on our business and our customers. Risks Relating to Our Shares The volatility of our share price could adversely affect investment in our common shares. The market price of our shares has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile. During 2023, the closing price of our shares ranged from a low of $93.57 to a high of $128.91. A variety of factors could cause the price of our shares to fluctuate, perhaps substantially, including but not limited to: • new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; • general conditions in the worldwide economy, including fluctuations in inflation, interest rates and global currency exchange rates; • announcements of technological innovations; • product obsolescence and our ability to manage product transitions; • developments in our relationships with our customers and suppliers; • the availability, pricing and timeliness of delivery of components, such as flash memory and liquid crystal displays, used in our products; • quarterly fluctuations in our actual or anticipated operating results; • changes in applicable tax laws and tax rates; • developments in patents or other intellectual property rights and litigation; 23 • announcements and rumors of developments related to our business, our competitors, our suppliers or the markets in which we compete; • research reports or opinions issued by securities analysts or brokerage houses related to Garmin, our competitors, our suppliers or our customers; • any significant acts of terrorism against the United States, Taiwan or significant markets where we sell our products; and • other factors as discussed in the previously listed risks. In addition, in recent years the stock market in general and the markets for shares of technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price fluctuations which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of affected companies. Any such fluctuations in the future could adversely affect the market price of our common shares. Our officers and directors exert substantial influence over us. As of January 23, 2024, members of our Board of Directors and our executive officers, together with their respective immediate family members and entities that may be deemed affiliates of or related to such persons or entities, beneficially owned approximately 20% of our outstanding shares. Accordingly, these shareholders may be able to determine the outcome of corporate actions requiring shareholder approval, such as mergers and acquisitions and shareholder proposals. This level of ownership may have a significant effect in delaying, deferring, or preventing a change in control of Garmin and may adversely affect the voting and other rights of other holders of our common shares. The rights of our shareholders are governed by Swiss law. The rights of our shareholders are governed by Swiss law and Garmin Ltd.’s articles of association. The rights of shareholders under Swiss law differ from the rights of shareholders of companies incorporated in other jurisdictions. For example, our articles of association authorize the Board of Directors for a maximum period of one year to increase the stated share capital to a maximum of 120% and/or reduce it to a minimum of 90% of the existing stated share capital of the Company. This authorization must be renewed at a shareholders’ meeting every year for it to continue to be available. Additionally, subject to specified exceptions, including the exceptions described in our articles of association, Swiss law grants preemptive rights to existing shareholders to subscribe for new issuances of shares and other securities. Swiss law also does not provide as much flexibility in the various terms that can attach to different classes of shares as the laws of some other jurisdictions. Swiss law also reserves for approval by shareholders certain corporate actions over which a board of directors would have authority in some other jurisdictions. For example, Swiss law provides that dividends and other distributions must be approved by shareholders at the general meeting of shareholders. These Swiss law requirements relating to our capital management may limit our flexibility, and situations may arise where greater flexibility would have provided substantial benefits to our shareholders. We have limited capital reserves from which to make distributions without subjecting our shareholders to Switzerland withholding tax. As of December 30, 2023, we had CHF 4,100 million of unappropriated capital contribution reserves available from which the Company may make dividend payments. At the time this reserve balance has been returned to shareholders, a Swiss federal withholding tax of 35% will generally be applicable to dividends paid. 24 When the capital contribution reserves are fully utilized, the Swiss federal withholding tax must be withheld from the gross dividend distribution and paid to the Swiss federal Tax Administration. A holder that qualifies for benefits under a double tax treaty may be able to recover partial withholding tax. For example, a U.S holder that qualifies for benefits under the Convention between the United States of America and the Swiss Confederation for the Avoidance of Double Taxation with Respect to Taxes on Income may apply for a refund of the tax withheld in excess of the 15% treaty rate (or in excess of the 5% reduced treaty rate for qualifying corporate shareholders with at least 10% participation in our voting shares, or for a full refund in case of qualified pension funds). However, there can be no assurance that our shareholders will approve a dividend out of capital contribution reserves, or that Swiss withholding rules will not be changed in the future or that a change in Swiss law will not adversely affect us or our shareholders, in particular as a result of distributions out of capital contribution reserves becoming subject to additional corporate law or other restrictions. If we are unable to pay a dividend out of capital contribution reserves, we will not be able to make distributions without subjecting our shareholders to Swiss withholding taxes. There is uncertainty as to our shareholders’ ability to enforce certain foreign civil liabilities in Switzerland and Taiwan. We are a Swiss company and a substantial portion of our assets are located outside the United States, particularly in Taiwan. As a result, it may be difficult to effect service of process within the United States upon us. In addition, there is uncertainty as to whether the courts of Switzerland or Taiwan would recognize or enforce judgments of United States courts obtained against us predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof, or be competent to hear original actions brought in Switzerland or Taiwan against us predicated upon the securities laws of the United States or any state thereof.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations focuses on and is intended to clarify the results of our operations, certain changes in our financial position, liquidity, capital structure and business developments the fiscal years ended December 30, 2023 and December 31, 2022 and a year-to-year comparison of these two fiscal years. This discussion should be read in conjunction with, and is qualified by reference to, the other related information including, but not limited to, the audited consolidated financial statements (including the notes thereto), the description of our business, all as set forth in this Form 10-K, as well as the risk factors discussed above in Item 1A. Discussion regarding our results of operations for the fiscal year ended December 25, 2021 and a year-to-year comparison between the fiscal years ended December 31, 2022 and December 25, 2021 can be found in Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022. As previously noted, the discussion set forth below, as well as other portions of this Form 10-K, contain statements concerning potential future events. Readers can identify these forward-looking statements by their use of such verbs as “expects,” “anticipates,” “believes”, or similar verbs or conjugations of such verbs. If any of our assumptions on which the statements are based prove incorrect or should unanticipated circumstances arise, our actual results could materially differ from those anticipated by such forward-looking statements. The differences could be caused by a number of factors or combination of factors including, but not limited to, those discussed above in Item 1A. Readers are strongly encouraged to consider those factors when evaluating any such forward-looking statement. Except as may be required by law, we do not undertake to update any forward-looking statements in this Form 10-K. Garmin’s fiscal year is a 52-53 week period ending on the last Saturday of the calendar year. Fiscal year 2023 contained 52 weeks and fiscal years 2022 and 2021 contained 53 weeks and 52 weeks, respectively. Unless otherwise stated, all years and dates refer to the Company’s fiscal year and fiscal periods. Unless the context otherwise requires, references in this document to "we", "us", "our", "the Company" and similar terms refer to Garmin Ltd. and its subsidiaries. Unless otherwise indicated, dollar amounts set forth in the tables are in thousands, except per share data. Overview The Company is a leading worldwide provider of wireless devices, many of which feature Global Positioning System (GPS) navigation, and applications that are designed for people who live an active lifestyle. Garmin is organized in the five operating segments of fitness, outdoor, aviation, marine, and auto OEM. These operating segments represent our reportable segments. The Company’s Chief Executive Officer, who has been identified as the Chief Operating Decision Maker (CODM), allocates resources and assesses performance of each operating segment individually. Business Environment Update A number of headwinds including high inflation and interest rates affected the economic environment and consumer behaviors during 2023. Additionally, while our global supply chain is routinely subject to component shortages, increased lead times, cost fluctuations, and logistics constraints, certain of these factors have at times been further amplified by the recent business environment. The nature and degree of effects of the business environment over time remain uncertain. Refer to Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion of the risks and uncertainties facing our Company. 33 Critical Accounting Estimates General Our discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations are based upon the Company’s consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States. The presentation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to customer sales programs and incentives, product returns, bad debts, inventories, investments, goodwill, intangible assets, income taxes, warranty obligations, and contingencies and litigation. We base our estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying value of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Refer to Note 1 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for our significant accounting policies related to our critical accounting estimates. Unrecognized Income Tax Benefits We recognize liabilities associated with uncertain income tax positions, including those related to transfer pricing, based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes will be due. We recognize the tax benefits from an uncertain tax position only if payment of these amounts ultimately proves to be not required or it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained upon examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such positions are measured based on the largest amount of benefit that is more likely than not to be realized upon ultimate settlement. Assessing uncertain tax positions requires significant judgment, including the evaluation of unique facts and circumstances and the interpretation of laws and regulations, especially the assessment of pricing analyses that may produce various ranges of outcomes. Variations in the actual outcome of these future tax consequences could materially impact our consolidated financial statements. Accounting Terms and Characteristics Net Sales Our net sales are primarily generated through sales to our retail partners, dealer and distributor network, installation and repair shops, original equipment manufacturers (OEMs), our online webshop (garmin.com), subscriptions for connected services, and our own retail stores. Refer to the Revenue Recognition discussion in Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We aim to achieve a quick turnaround on orders we receive from our retail, dealer, and distributor customers. Certain arrangements with OEM customers are entered into at the beginning of an aircraft, boat, or vehicle life cycle with the intent to fulfill customer purchasing requirements for the entire production life, although there are generally no firm volume commitments, and sales are therefore generated on an order-by-order basis. As a result, we do not believe backlog information is material to the understanding of our business. Net sales are subject to seasonal fluctuation. Typically, sales of our consumer products are highest in the fourth quarter due to increased demand during the holiday buying season, and, to a lesser extent, in the second quarter due to increased demand during the spring and summer season. Sales of our consumer products are also influenced by the timing of the release of new products. Our aviation and auto OEM products do not experience much seasonal variation but are more influenced by the timing of aircraft certifications, regulatory mandates, auto program manufacturing, and the release of new products when the initial demand is typically the strongest. Cost of Goods Sold and Gross Profit Raw material costs are our most significant component of cost of goods sold. Our existing practice of performing the design and manufacture of our products in-house has enabled us to source components from different suppliers and, where possible, to redesign our products to leverage lower-cost or more readily available components. 34 We believe that our flexible production model allows our factories to experience relatively low costs of manufacturing. In general, products manufactured in Taiwan have been our highest volume products. Our manufacturing labor costs historically have been lower in Taiwan and China than in other locations. Shipping and handling costs associated with the transportation and delivery of our products are included in cost of goods sold. Such costs fluctuate due to a number of factors, including market pricing and the mix of modes of transportation we utilize. Sales price variability, including that which is associated with foreign currency fluctuations, has had and can be expected to have an effect on our gross profit. Our consolidated gross margin, representing gross profit as a percentage of net sales, is dependent on segment mix, and to a lesser extent, product mix within each segment. Advertising Expense Our advertising expenses consist primarily of costs for media advertising, cooperative advertising with our retail partners, point of sale displays, and sponsorships. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Our selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of: • information systems and infrastructure costs; • salaries for sales, marketing and product support personnel; • salaries and related costs for executives and administrative personnel; • marketing, and other brand building costs; • finance and legal costs; • human resource costs; • travel and related costs; and • occupancy and other overhead costs. Research and Development The majority of our research and development costs represent engineering personnel costs, costs of test equipment and components used in product and prototype development, and outside product development costs. We are committed to increasing the level of innovative design and development of new products as we strive for expanded ability to serve our existing consumer and aviation markets as well as new auto OEM programs and new markets for active lifestyle products. Results of Operations The Company announced an organization realignment in January 2023, which combined the consumer auto operating segment with the outdoor operating segment. As a result, the Company’s operating segments, which also represent its reportable segments, are fitness, outdoor, aviation, marine, and auto OEM. Results for the 53-week and 52-week periods ended December 31, 2022 and December 25, 2021, respectively, have been recast to conform to current period presentation. This change had no effect on the Company’s consolidated results of operations. 35 The following table sets forth our results of operations as a percentage of net sales during the periods shown (the table may not foot due to rounding): The table below sets forth our results of operations through operating income for each of our five reportable segments. The Company’s CODM primarily uses operating income as the measure of profit or loss to assess segment performance and allocate resources. Operating income represents net sales less costs of goods sold and operating expenses. Net sales are directly attributed to each segment. Most costs of goods sold and the majority of operating expenses are also directly attributed to each segment, while certain other costs of goods sold and operating expenses are allocated to the segments in a reasonable manner considering the specific facts and circumstances of the expenses being allocated. For each line item in the table below, the total of the reportable segments’ amounts equals the amount in the consolidated statements of income. 36 Net Sales Net sales increased 8% in fiscal year 2023 when compared to the year-ago period. Total unit sales increased approximately 8% to 16.2 million units in 2023 from 15.0 million units in 2022. Outdoor revenue represented the largest portion of our revenue mix at 32% in 2023, compared to 36% in 2022. The increase in fitness revenue was driven by sales growth across all product categories. Aviation revenue increased primarily due to growth in OEM product categories. The increase in marine revenue was driven by contributions from newly acquired JL Audio, partially offset by declines in multiple product categories. Auto OEM revenue increased primarily due to increased shipments of domain controllers. Outdoor revenue decreased primarily due to declines in sales of adventure watches during the first quarter of 2023. Gross Profit Gross profit dollars in fiscal year 2023 increased 7%, primarily due to the increase in net sales compared to the year-ago period as described above. Consolidated gross margin was relatively flat when compared to the year-ago period. The fitness and outdoor gross margin increases of 350 basis points and 110 basis points, respectively, were primarily attributable to favorable freight costs. The aviation gross margin increase of 170 basis points was primarily attributable to lower warranty costs. Gross margin remained relatively flat within the marine segment. The auto OEM gross margin decrease of 870 basis points was primarily attributable to unfavorable product mix. 37 Operating Expense Total operating expense increased 8% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue in fiscal year 2023 compared to fiscal year 2022. Advertising expense increased 3% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue when compared to the year-ago period. The absolute dollar increase was primarily attributable to increased media spend. Selling, general and administrative expense increased 8% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue when compared to the year-ago period. The absolute dollar increase was primarily attributable to increased personnel-related expenses and information technology costs. Research and development expense increased 8% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue compared to the year-ago period. The absolute dollar increase was primarily due to higher engineering personnel costs. Operating Income Total operating income increased 6% in absolute dollars and was relatively flat as a percent of revenue when compared to fiscal year 2022. The absolute dollar decreases in outdoor and marine operating income were more than offset by improved performance in fitness, aviation, and auto OEM. Other Income (Expense) The average interest rate returns on cash and investments during the 52-weeks ended December 30, 2023 and 53-weeks ended December 31, 2022 were 2.7% and 1.4%, respectively. Interest income increased primarily due to higher yields on fixed-income securities. 38 Foreign currency gains and losses for the Company are driven by movements of a number of currencies in relation to the U.S. Dollar. The Taiwan Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin Corporation, the Euro is the functional currency of several subsidiaries, and the U.S. Dollar is the functional currency of Garmin (Europe) Ltd., although some transactions and balances are denominated in British Pounds. Other notable currency exposures include the Australian Dollar, Chinese Yuan, Japanese Yen, and Polish Zloty. The majority of the Company’s consolidated foreign currency gain or loss is typically driven by the significant cash and marketable securities, receivables and payables held in a currency other than the functional currency at a given legal entity. The $26.4 million currency gain recognized in fiscal 2023 was primarily due to the U.S. Dollar weakening against the Polish Zloty and Euro, partially offset by the U.S. Dollar weakening at times during the year against the Taiwan Dollar. During this period, the U.S. Dollar weakened 12.3% against the Polish Zloty and 3.1% against the Euro, resulting in gains of $24.4 million and $8.8 million, respectively, partially offset by the U.S. Dollar weakening at times during the year against the Taiwan Dollar, resulting in a net loss of $5.1 million. The remaining net currency loss of $1.7 million was related to the impacts of other currencies, each of which was individually immaterial. The $11.3 million currency loss recognized in fiscal 2022 was primarily due to the U.S. Dollar strengthening against the Australian Dollar, Polish Zloty, Chinese Yuan, Euro, Japanese Yen, and British Pound Sterling, partially offset by the U.S. Dollar strengthening against the Taiwan Dollar. During this period, the U.S. Dollar strengthened 6.4% against the Australian Dollar, 7.1% against the Polish Zloty, 8.5% against the Chinese Yuan, 5.4% against the Euro, 12.7% against the Japanese Yen, and 9.6% against the British Pound Sterling resulting in losses of $8.9 million, $6.0 million, $5.8 million, $5.1 million, $3.7 million, and $1.9 million, respectively, partially offset by the U.S. Dollar strengthening 9.7% against the Taiwan Dollar, resulting in a gain of $28.0 million. The remaining net currency loss of $7.9 million was related to the impacts of other currencies, each of which was individually immaterial. Income Tax Provision (Benefit) The Company recorded income tax benefit of $89.3 million for the fiscal year ended December 30, 2023, which included income tax benefit of $181.4 million recognized by the Company in the fourth quarter of 2023 related to the revaluation of Switzerland deferred tax assets and income tax benefit of $12.1 million recognized in the fourth quarter of 2023 related to Auto OEM manufacturing tax incentives in Poland. The Company recorded income tax expense of $91.4 million for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2022, which included income tax expense of $7.2 million recognized by the Company in the fourth quarter of 2022 related to the revaluation of Switzerland deferred tax assets. Global taxing standards have evolved as a result of the Organization for Economic Co-Operation and Development (OECD) recommendations aimed at preventing perceived base erosion and profit shifting (BEPS) by multinational corporations. The OECD issued a statement regarding a two-pillar solution which includes within “Pillar Two” a global minimum tax. Numerous countries have signed onto the OECD statement including Switzerland, the U.S., and the U.K. In 2023, Switzerland’s Federal Council passed legislation which would implement a federal minimum tax in Switzerland of 15% in 2024. Additionally, the Swiss canton of Schaffhausen has also passed legislation that would increase the cantonal corporate tax rate beginning in 2024 and result in a combined federal and cantonal statutory tax rate of approximately 15% in Switzerland. As a result of the increases in the combined Switzerland tax rates and the impact of implementation of global minimum tax requirements, we expect our effective tax rate to be higher in the future, beginning with the 2024 tax year, when compared to fiscal years 2023, 2022, and 2021. Additionally, we initiated an intercompany transaction in 2020 which migrates ownership of certain intellectual property from Switzerland to the United States, which is the primary location of research, development, and executive management. At the end of this migration, a higher percentage of income will be recognized in the U.S. 39 Net Income As a result of the various factors noted above net income increased 32% to $1,289.6 million from $973.6 million in the prior year. Liquidity and Capital Resources We primarily use cash flow from operations, and expect that future cash requirements may be used, to fund our capital expenditures, support our working capital requirements, pay dividends, fund share repurchases, and fund strategic acquisitions. We believe that our existing cash balances and cash flow from operations will be sufficient to meet our short- and long-term projected working capital needs, capital expenditures, and other cash requirements. Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Marketable Securities As of December 30, 2023, we had approximately $3.1 billion of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. Management invests idle or surplus cash in accordance with the investment policy, which has been approved by the Company’s Board of Directors. The investment policy’s primary objectives are to preserve capital, maintain an acceptable degree of liquidity, and maximize yield within the constraint of low credit risk. Garmin’s average interest rate returns on cash and investments during fiscal 2023 and 2022 were 2.7% and 1.4%, respectively. The fair value of our securities varies from period to period due to changes in interest rates, in the performance of the underlying collateral, and in the credit performance of the underlying issuer, among other factors. See Note 4 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding marketable securities. Cash Flows Cash provided by operating activities totaled $1,376.3 million for fiscal 2023, compared to $788.3 million for fiscal 2022. The increase was primarily due to a lower use of cash on purchases of inventory, partially offset by a decrease in collections of accounts receivable in fiscal 2023 when compared to fiscal 2022. Cash used in investing activities totaled $333.0 million for fiscal 2023, compared to $145.1 million for fiscal 2022. The increase was primarily due to an increase in cash used for acquisitions and a decrease in net redemptions of marketable securities in fiscal 2023 compared to fiscal 2022. These were partially offset by a decrease in cash used for the purchase of property and equipment in fiscal 2023 compared to fiscal 2022. Cash used in financing activities totaled $636.5 million for fiscal 2023, compared to $840.6 million for fiscal 2022. This decrease was primarily due to lower purchases of treasury shares under the share repurchase plan and lower cash dividend payments in fiscal 2023 compared to fiscal 2022. Fiscal 2023 included four dividend payments compared to five dividend payments in fiscal 2022 due to the timing of dividend dates and our fiscal period end dates. Uses of Cash Operating Leases The Company has lease arrangements for certain real estate properties, vehicles, and equipment. Leased properties are typically used for office space, distribution, and retail. As of December 30, 2023, the Company had fixed lease payment obligations of $163.3 million, with $34.7 million payable within 12 months. Inventory Purchase Obligations The Company obtains various raw materials and components for its products from a variety of third party suppliers. The Company’s inventory purchase obligations are primarily noncancelable. As of December 30, 2023, the Company had inventory purchase obligations of $666.0 million, with $512.0 million payable within 12 months. 40 Other Purchase Obligations The Company’s other purchase obligations primarily consist of noncancelable commitments for capital expenditures and other indirect purchases in connection with conducting our business. As of December 30, 2023, the Company had other purchase obligations of $361.3 million, with $209.8 million payable within 12 months. Other Uses of Cash Net cash outlays for income taxes exceeded income tax expense in each of the 2023 and 2022 fiscal years, partially due to the provisions of the 2017 United States Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, which require us to capitalize certain research and development costs and amortize those costs on our U.S. tax returns over a period of five or fifteen years, depending on where the associated costs were incurred. Primarily as a result of these provisions, we expect net cash outlays for income taxes to again exceed income tax expense in fiscal 2024. Additionally, while we expect our effective tax rate to be higher in fiscal 2024, when compared to fiscal years 2023, 2022, and 2021, we expect net cash outlays for income taxes in fiscal 2024 to be materially similar to net cash outlays for income taxes in fiscal 2023, primarily associated with our planned utilization of Switzerland deferred tax assets.