********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

The following is a discussion of significant risk factors relevant to Grainger’s business that could adversely affect its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The risk factors discussed in this section should be considered together with information included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and should not be considered the only risks to which the Company is exposed. Industry and Market Risks Inflation could cause Grainger's operating and administrative expenses to grow more rapidly than net sales, which could result in lower gross margins and lower net earnings . Market variables, such as inflation of product costs, labor rates and fuel, freight and energy costs, as well as geopolitical events could potentially cause the Company to be unable to manage its operating and administrative expenses in a way that would enable it to leverage its revenue growth into higher net earnings. For example, Russia’s invasion of Ukraine and other geopolitical conflicts, as well as the related international response, has and may continue to exacerbate inflationary pressures, including causing increases in fuel and other energy costs. In addition, Grainger's inability to pass on increases in costs to customers in a timely manner, or at all, could cause Grainger's operating and administrative expenses to grow, which could result in lower gross profit margins and lower net earnings. Disruptions in Grainger’s supply chain could result in an adverse impact on results of operations. Grainger’s logistics or supply chain network could be disrupted by the occurrence of: one or more natural or human induced disasters, including earthquakes, tsunamis, storms, hurricanes, floods, fires, droughts, tornados and other extreme weather; pandemic diseases or viral contagions such as the COVID-19 pandemic; geopolitical events, such as war, civil unrest or terrorist attacks in a country in which Grainger operates or in which its suppliers are located; disruptions in transport networks, including from transport providers or third party work stoppages related to labor strikes or lockouts; and the imposition of measures that create barriers to or increase the costs associated with international trade. Even when Grainger is able to find alternate sources for certain products, they may cost more or require the Company to incur higher transportation costs, which could adversely impact the Company's profitability and financial condition. Any of these circumstances could impair Grainger's ability to meet customer demand for products and result in lost sales, increased supply chain costs, penalties or damage to Grainger's reputation. Grainger’s ability to provide same-day shipping and next-day delivery is an integral component of Grainger’s business strategy and any such disruption could adversely impact results of operations and financial performance. Furthermore, in connection with Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, the U.S. and other countries have responded by imposing major, and potentially prolonged, economic sanctions and other responses. Although Grainger's business has limited direct exposure in Russia and Ukraine, further escalation of geopolitical tensions could have a broader impact that expands into other markets where we do business, which could adversely affect Grainger’s business and/or supply chain, customers and/or suppliers in the broader region. Similarly an increase in tensions across the Taiwan Straits and in overall relations with China, and the potential of various resulting actions and responses of the international community and other factors affecting trade in and from the region could disrupt the sourcing and manufacturing of products in the region. It is not possible to predict whether these events will occur, or the broader consequences of these events if they did occur, which could include further instability, geopolitical shifts and adverse effects on the global economy or possible sanctions, embargoes or other trade barriers. Weakness in the economy, market trends and other conditions affecting the profitability and financial stability of Grainger’s customers could negatively impact Grainger’s sales growth and results of operations. Economic, political and industry trends affect Grainger’s business environment. Grainger serves several industries and markets in which the demand for its products and services is sensitive to the production activity, capital spending and demand for products and services of Grainger’s customers. Many of these customers operate in markets that are subject to cyclical fluctuations resulting from market uncertainty, trade and tariff policies, costs of goods sold, currency exchange rates, interest rate fluctuations, economic downturns, recessions, foreign competition, offshoring of production, oil and natural gas prices, geopolitical developments, labor shortages, inflation, natural or human induced disasters, extreme weather, outbreaks of pandemic disease such as the COVID-19 pandemic, inflation, deflation, and a variety of other factors beyond Grainger’s control. Any of these factors could cause customers to idle or close facilities, delay purchases, reduce production levels, or experience reductions in the demand for their own products or services. 12 Any of these events could also reduce the volume of products and services these customers purchase from Grainger or impair the ability of Grainger’s customers to make full and timely payments and could cause increased pressure on Grainger’s selling prices and terms of sale. Accordingly, a significant or prolonged slowdown in economic activity in Canada, China, Japan, Mexico, the U.K., the U.S. or any other major world economy, or a segment of any such economy, could negatively impact Grainger’s sales growth and results of operations. Unexpected product shortages, tariffs, product cost increases and risks associated with Grainger’s suppliers could negatively impact customer relationships or result in an adverse impact on results of operations. Grainger’s competitive strengths include product selection and availability. Products are purchased from more than 5,000 suppliers located in various countries around the world, not one of which accounted for more than 5% of total purchases. Disruptions in procuring sources of supply could occur due to factors beyond Grainger’s control. These factors could include economic downturns, recessions, outbreaks of pandemic disease such as the COVID-19 pandemic or other similar global pandemics, natural or human induced disasters, extreme weather, geopolitical unrest, tariffs, new tariffs or tariff increases, trade issues and policies, detention orders or withhold release orders on imported products, labor problems or shortages experienced by Grainger’s suppliers or others in the supply chain, transportation availability, staffing and cost, shortage of raw materials, supplier consolidation, unilateral product cost increases by suppliers of products in short supply, inflation and other factors, any of which could adversely affect a supplier’s ability to manufacture or deliver products or could result in an increase in Grainger’s product costs. Further, Grainger sources products from Asia and other areas of the world. This increases the risk of supply disruption due to the additional lead time required, distances involved, and the range of potential consequences of various geopolitical risks.  If Grainger was unable to promptly replace sources of supply that become disrupted, there could be adverse effects on inventory levels, results of operations, customer relationships and Grainger’s reputation. In addition, Grainger has strategic relationships with a number of vendors. In the event Grainger was unable to maintain those relations, there might be a loss of competitive pricing advantages which could, in turn, adversely affect results of operations. Grainger requires its suppliers and their sub-suppliers, for products sold in the U.S., Canada and Mexico, to comply with Grainger’s Supplier Code of Ethics, or other similar responsible sourcing standards, as a condition to doing business with Grainger. Grainger’s Supplier Code of Ethics focuses on four main areas of ethical sourcing: human rights, labor (including prohibitions on child and forced labor), environment and anti-corruption. Grainger does not control its suppliers and their sub-suppliers, and neither Grainger nor its suppliers or other partners may be able to uncover all instances of noncompliance with Grainger’s Supplier Code of Ethics and ethical and lawful business practices.  Even an isolated incident, or the aggregate effect of individually insignificant incidents, can erode trust and confidence, particularly if they result in adverse publicity, governmental investigations, product recalls, or litigation, and as a result, could tarnish Grainger’s brand and lead to adverse effects on Grainger’s business. Grainger’s business and operations have been and could in the future be adversely affected by the global outbreak of the Coronavirus and its variants (COVID-19 pandemic), or other global outbreaks of pandemic disease. Any global outbreaks of pandemic disease, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, could have a material adverse effect on Grainger’s business, results of operations and financial condition, including liquidity, capital and financing resources. Additional effects from global pandemics on Grainger's business could include adverse impacts on transportation, including shipping delays and port disruptions, increased shipping costs, constraints on the availability of products, inflation, and labor shortages. Furthermore, Grainger's ability to collect its accounts receivable or receive product ordered from suppliers, as customers and suppliers face higher liquidity and solvency risks and seek terms that are less favorable to Grainger, may adversely affect the Company’s business. These adverse effects could result in product shortages, including certain PPE and cleaning supplies, and may impact the Company’s ability to maintain sufficient inventory and to accurately predict demand or lead times, which might cause it to be unable to service customer demand or expose it to risks of product shortages. Addressing shortages may require the Company to procure products from new suppliers or through brokers with whom it has a limited or no prior relationship. These developments, alone or in combination, could materially adversely affect Grainger’s future sales and results of operations. 13 Moreover, global outbreaks such as the COVID-19 pandemic have resulted in a widespread health crisis that has adversely affected and could continue to adversely affect the economies of many countries, resulting in a global or regional economic downturn or recession and supply chain challenges. Any such recession could result in a significant decline in access to products, demand for the Company’s products or limit Grainger’s ability to access capital markets, any of which could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The duration and ultimate impact of a global pandemic on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition will depend on numerous evolving factors and future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted at this time. Such factors and developments may include the extent and geographic spread, severity and duration of the pandemic, including whether there are periods of increased cases, the extent and duration of the impact on the U.S. or global economy, including the pace and extent of recovery when the pandemic subsides, and the actions that have been or may be taken by various governmental authorities in response to the outbreak. In addition, if the Company is unable to respond to and manage the impact of governmental mandates, requirements or other directives related to a pandemic, the Company’s business and results of operations may be adversely affected. Volatility in commodity prices may adversely affect gross margins. Some of Grainger’s products contain significant amounts of commodity-priced materials, such as steel, copper, petroleum derivatives, rare earth minerals, or other materials or inputs required to manufacture certain products and are subject to price changes based on fluctuations in the commodities market. The recent global geopolitical and trade environment has resulted in raw material inflation and potential for increased escalation of domestic and international tariffs and retaliatory trade policies. Further changes in U.S. trade policy (including new or additional increases in duties or tariffs) and retaliatory actions by U.S. trade partners could result in a worsening of economic conditions. The level of demand for Grainger's products and services is influenced in multiple ways by the price and availability of raw materials and commodities, including fuel. Fluctuations in the price of fuel or increased demand for freight services, including as a result of outbreaks of pandemic disease such as the COVID-19 pandemic, could affect transportation costs. Grainger’s ability to pass on such increases in costs in a timely manner depends on market conditions. The inability to pass along cost increases could result in lower gross margins. In addition, higher prices could reduce demand for these products, resulting in lower sales volumes. Fluctuations in foreign currency could have an effect on reported results of operations. Grainger’s exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency rates results primarily from the translation exposure associated with the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements, as well as from transaction exposure associated with transactions in currencies other than an entity’s functional currency. While the Consolidated Financial Statements are reported in U.S. dollars, the Financial Statements of Grainger’s subsidiaries outside the U.S. are prepared using the local currency as the functional currency and translated into U.S. dollars. In addition, Grainger is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to the U.S. dollar relative to the local currencies of Grainger’s international subsidiaries, primarily the Japanese yen, Canadian dollar, British pound sterling, Mexican peso, Chinese renminbi and euro, arising from transactions in the normal course of business, such as sales and loans to wholly owned subsidiaries, sales to customers, purchases from suppliers, and bank loans and lines of credit denominated in foreign currencies. The foreign currency exchange rate is driven by a variety of macroeconomic factors and fiscal decisions of various governments and central banks, all of which Grainger has no control over. Grainger also has foreign currency exposure to the extent receipts and expenditures are not denominated in a subsidiary’s functional currency and that could have an impact on sales, costs and cash flows. These fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates has affected and may continue to affect Grainger’s results of operations and impact reported net sales and net earnings. The facilities maintenance industry is highly competitive, and changes in competition could result in decreased demand for Grainger’s products and services. Grainger competes in a variety of ways, including product assortment and availability, services offered to customers, pricing, purchasing convenience, and the overall experience Grainger offers. This includes the ease of use of Grainger’s high-touch operations, eCommerce platforms and delivery of products. 14 There are several large competitors in the industry, although most of the market is served by small local and regional competitors. Grainger faces competition in all markets it serves from manufacturers (including some of its own suppliers) that sell directly to certain segments of the market, wholesale distributors, catalog houses, retail enterprises and online businesses that compete with price transparency. To remain competitive, the Company must be willing and able to respond to market pressures. Downward pressure on sales prices, changes in the volume of orders, and an inability to pass higher product costs on to customers could cause Grainger’s gross profit percentage to fluctuate or decline. Grainger may not be able to pass rising product costs to customers if those customers have ready product or supplier alternatives in the marketplace. These pressures could have a material effect on Grainger’s sales and profitability. If the Company is unable to grow sales or reduce costs, among other actions, the Company’s results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. Moreover, Grainger expects technological advancements and the increased use of eCommerce solutions within the industry to continue to evolve at a rapid pace. As a result, Grainger’s ability to effectively compete requires Grainger to respond and adapt to new industry trends and developments. Developing, upgrading, managing or implementing new technologies, business applications, strategies and innovations may require significant investment of resources by the Company, may result in unexpected costs and disruptions to operations, may take longer than expected, may increase the Company’s vulnerability to cyber breaches, attacks or intrusions, and may not provide all anticipated benefits. The growth of Grainger’s eCommerce platforms exposes Grainger to additional risks which could adversely affect Grainger’s reputation, financial performance and operating results. The successful execution of Grainger’s eCommerce growth strategy depends on a number of factors, including the Company’s investment in its eCommerce platforms, consumer preferences and purchasing trends, and the ability to deliver a seamless procurement experience across digital and also physical retail channels. As its eCommerce platforms have grown in recent years, Grainger has increased, and expects to continue to increase, its investments in developing, managing and implementing technology information systems, software development and other capabilities to provide simplified customer interactions and to provide high-quality, user-friendly service to its customers and streamline customer interactions. Grainger has also made significant investments in digital advertising and customer acquisition and retention efforts for its eCommerce channels, including through paid and non-paid advertising such as display advertising, search engine optimization, email and mobile “push” notifications. If Grainger’s customer-facing technology systems are perceived as more difficult or less compelling for customers to use than those of the Company’s competitors, or if digital marketing efforts are unsuccessful or if Grainger is otherwise unsuccessful at realizing the benefits of these investments, its reputation, financial condition and operating results may be adversely affected. In addition, the successful operation of Grainger’s eCommerce channels depends in part upon third parties and factors over which Grainger has limited or no control. For example, Grainger relies in part on Internet search engines to drive traffic to its websites, and the reach of Grainger’s eCommerce channels is impacted by how and where its websites rank in both paid and unpaid search results. Potential changes to search engine ranking rules could cause Grainger’s websites to place lower in search results and cause Grainger to incur increased advertising costs in order to increase its visibility. Further, ongoing changes in the legal and regulatory requirements surrounding data privacy, online tracking technologies such as cookies, digital advertising and other eCommerce matters could require Grainger to modify its eCommerce strategy, incur significant additional costs to comply with such changes or otherwise adversely affect Grainger’s business, results of operations or financial condition. Grainger also relies on email and other messaging services to promote its websites and product offerings, and changes in the Company’s current or prospective customers’ use of email or other messaging services or actions by third parties to block, restrict or charge for the delivery of such messages could adversely affect sales through Grainger’s eCommerce channels and the Company’s  results of operations. Changes in customer base or product mix could cause changes in Grainger’s revenue or gross margin, or affect Grainger’s competitive position. From time to time, Grainger experiences changes in customer base and product mix that affect gross margin. Changes in customer base and product mix result primarily from business acquisitions, changes in customer demand, customer acquisitions, selling and marketing activities, competition and the increased use of eCommerce by Grainger and its competitors. 15 In addition, Grainger has entered, and may in the future continue to enter, into contracts with group purchasing organizations (GPOs) that aggregate the buying power of their member customers in negotiating selling prices. If the Company is unable to enter into, or sustain, contractual arrangements on a satisfactory commercial basis with GPOs, Grainger's results of operations could be adversely affected. As customer base and product mix change over time, Grainger must identify new products, product lines and services that respond to industry trends and customer needs. The inability to introduce new products and services and effectively integrate them into Grainger’s existing assortment could have a negative impact on future sales growth and Grainger’s competitive position. The inclusion of Grainger-branded products in the product assortment could subject Grainger to increased claims and litigation activity. In addition, any insurance or indemnification rights, including against the manufacturer of such products, may be insufficient or unavailable to protect Grainger against potential loss exposures. Grainger’s common stock may be subject to volatility or price declines. The trading prices and volumes of Grainger’s common stock may be subject to broad and unpredictable fluctuations due to changes in economic, political and market conditions, the financial results and business strategies of Grainger and its competitors, changes in expectations as to Grainger’s future financial or operating performance, including estimates by securities analysts and investors, the Company’s failure to meet the financial performance guidance or other forward-looking statements provided to the public, speculation, coverage or sentiment in the media or investment community or by groups of individual investors, changes in capital structure, share repurchase programs or dividend policies, economic decline, political unrest or geopolitical conflict, outbreak of pandemic disease such as the COVID-19 pandemic, and a number of other factors, including those discussed in this Item 1A. These factors, many of which are outside of Grainger’s control, could cause stock price and trading volume volatility or Grainger’s stock price to decline. Volatility in the price of Grainger's securities could result in the filing of securities class action litigation, which could result in substantial costs and the diversion of management time and resources. Grainger has a controlling ownership interest in MonotaRO, which is listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE). MonotaRO's disclosure and reporting obligations under TSE listing requirements and Japanese securities laws, including the timing of such obligations, may vary from Grainger's obligations under New York Stock Exchange listing requirements and U.S. securities laws. MonotaRO's listed securities may be subject to the same volatility, price and securities litigation risks to which Grainger's common stock is subject. Operational Risks Interruptions in the proper functioning of information systems could disrupt operations and cause unanticipated increases in costs and/or decreases in revenues. The proper functioning of Grainger’s information systems is critical to the successful operation of its business. Grainger continues to invest in software, hardware and network infrastructures in order to effectively manage its information systems. Although Grainger’s information systems are protected with backup and security systems, including physical and software safeguards and remote processing capabilities, information systems are still vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural or human induced disasters, extreme weather, power losses, telecommunication failures, user error, third party actions such as malicious computer programs, denial-of-service attacks and cybersecurity breaches, and other problems. In addition, from time to time Grainger relies on the information technology (IT) systems of third parties to assist in conducting its business. If Grainger’s systems or those of third parties on which Grainger depends are damaged, breached, cease to function properly or are otherwise disrupted, Grainger may have to make a significant investment to repair or replace them and may suffer interruptions in its business operations in the interim. If critical information systems fail or otherwise become unavailable, Grainger’s ability to operate its eCommerce platforms, process orders, maintain proper levels of inventories, collect accounts receivable, disburse funds, manage its supply chain, monitor results of operations, and process and store employee or customer data, among other functions, could be adversely affected. Any such interruption of Grainger’s information systems could have a material adverse effect on its business or results of operations. Grainger has experienced these incidents in the past, which it deemed immaterial to its business and operations individually and in the aggregate and may be subject to other incidents in the future. There can be no assurance that any future incidents will not be material to Grainger’s business, operations or financial condition. 16 Cybersecurity incidents, including breaches of information systems security, could damage Grainger’s reputation, disrupt operations, increase costs and/or decrease revenues. Through Grainger’s sales and eCommerce channels, the Company collects and stores personally identifiable, confidential, proprietary and other information from customers so that they may, among other things, purchase products or services, enroll in promotional programs, register on Grainger’s websites or otherwise communicate or interact with the Company. Moreover, Grainger’s operations routinely involve receiving, storing, processing and transmitting sensitive information pertaining to its business, customers, suppliers and employees, and other sensitive matters. Cyber threats are rapidly evolving and those threats and the means for obtaining access to information in digital and other storage media are becoming increasingly sophisticated. Each year, cyber-attackers make numerous attempts to access the information stored in the Company’s information systems. If successful, cyber-attacks may expose Grainger to risk of loss or misuse of proprietary or confidential information or disruptions of business operations. The transition in recent years to remote and “hybrid” working arrangements, may increase Grainger’s vulnerability to cybersecurity incidents, including breaches of information systems security, which could damage Grainger’s reputation and commercial relationships, disrupt operations, increase costs and/or decrease revenues, and expose Grainger to claims from customers, suppliers, financial institutions, regulators, payment card associations, employees and others. Grainger's IT infrastructure also includes products and services provided by suppliers, vendors and other third parties, and these providers can experience breaches of their systems and products that impact the security of systems and proprietary or confidential information. Moreover, from time to time, Grainger may share information with these third parties in connection with the products and services they provide to the business. While Grainger requires assurances that these third parties will protect confidential information, there is a risk that the confidentiality of data held or accessed by them may be compromised. If successful, those attempting to penetrate Grainger’s or its vendors’ information systems may misappropriate intellectual property or personally identifiable, credit card, confidential, proprietary or other sensitive customer, supplier, employee or business information, or cause systems disruption. While many of Grainger's agreements with these third parties include indemnification provisions, the Company may not be able to recover sufficiently, or at all, under such provisions to adequately offset any losses it may incur. Moreover, the Company may face the threat to its computer systems of unauthorized access, computer hackers, computer viruses, malicious code, ransomware, phishing, organized cyber-attacks and other security problems and system disruptions. Such tactics may also seek to cause payments due to or from the Company to be misdirected to fraudulent accounts, which may not be recoverable by the Company. In addition, a Grainger employee, contractor or other third party with whom Grainger does business may attempt to circumvent security measures or otherwise access Grainger’s information systems in order to obtain such information or inadvertently cause a breach involving such information. Further, Grainger’s systems are integrated with customer systems in certain cases, and a breach of the Company’s information systems could be used to gain illicit access to a customer’s systems and information. Grainger has been subject to unauthorized accesses of certain supplier and customer information, including in the last three years, which it deemed immaterial to its business and operations individually and in the aggregate, and may be subject to other unauthorized accesses of its systems in the future. There can be no assurance that any future unauthorized access to or breach of Grainger’s information systems will not be material to Grainger’s business, operations or financial condition. Grainger maintains information security staff, policies and procedures for managing risk to its information security systems, conducts annual employee awareness training of cybersecurity threats and routinely utilizes consultants to assist in evaluating the effectiveness of the security of its IT systems. Moreover, senior leadership, including Grainger's Chief Technology Officer and Chief Information Security Officer, present a cybersecurity briefing at every Audit Committee meeting, provide "cyber dashboard" reports for the Board material at each meeting, and at least annually brief the full Board of Directors. While Grainger has instituted these and other safeguards for the protection of information and governance and oversight of its information security posture, because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until they are launched against a target, Grainger may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative measures. Any breach of Grainger’s security measures or any breach, error or malfeasance of those of its third-party service providers could cause Grainger to incur significant costs to protect any customers, suppliers, 17 employees, and other parties whose personal data is compromised and to make changes to its information systems and administrative processes to address security issues. Grainger works with third party information security consultants to assess and enhance its policies and incident responses and to respond to breaches. In addition, although Grainger maintains insurance coverage that may, subject to policy terms and conditions, cover certain aspects of cyber and information security risks, depending on the nature, location and extent of any event, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses. Grainger continuously evaluates the need to upgrade and/or replace its systems and network infrastructure to protect its computing environment, to stay current on vendor supported products and to improve the efficiency of its systems and for other business reasons. The implementation of new systems and IT could adversely impact its operations by imposing substantial capital expenditures, demands on management time and risks of delays or difficulties in transitioning to new systems. In addition, the Company's systems implementations may not result in productivity improvements at the levels anticipated. Systems implementation disruption and any other IT disruption, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, could have an adverse effect on its business. Loss of customer, supplier, employee or intellectual property or other business information or failure to comply with data privacy and security laws could disrupt operations, damage Grainger’s reputation and expose Grainger to claims from customers, suppliers, financial institutions, regulators, payment card associations, employees and others, any of which could have a material adverse effect on Grainger, and financial condition and results of operations. Grainger has experienced certain of these cybersecurity incidents in each instance, Grainger provided notifications and adopted remedial measures. None of these incidents have been deemed to be material to Grainger and Grainger has neither incurred any material net expenses nor been penalized or paid any settlement amounts with respect to any cybersecurity breach in the las t three years. However there can be no assurance that a future breach or incident would not be material to Grainger’s operations and fina ncial condition. Grainger’s eCommerce channels are subject to risks related to online payment methods and other online transactions, including through purchasing platforms. Grainger accepts a variety of payment methods via its eCommerce channels, including credit card, debit card, PayPal and other payment methods and other online transactions, including through its eProcurement technologies which communicate directly with Grainger.com and Grainger's other eCommerce channels. While Grainger generally relies on third parties to facilitate eCommerce payments and payment processing services, Grainger may become subject to additional compliance requirements and regulations regarding these transactions, and may also suffer losses from online fraudulent transactions on its eCommerce channels. In addition, Grainger must pay certain transaction fees relating to these transactions, which may increase over time and could have an impact on product margin, profitability and operating costs. Grainger’s eCommerce channels may become subject to further rules and regulations, and changes in these rules and regulations, or their interpretation, could increase the cost of doing business. Grainger’s ability to adequately protect its intellectual property or successfully defend against infringement claims by others may have an adverse impact on operations. Grainger’s business relies on the use, validity and continued protection of certain proprietary information and intellectual property, which includes current and future patents, trade secrets, trademarks, service marks, copyrights and confidentiality agreements as well as license and sublicense agreements to use intellectual property owned by affiliated entities or third parties. Unauthorized use of Grainger’s intellectual property by others could result in harm to various aspects of the business and may result in costly and protracted litigation in order to protect Grainger’s rights. In addition, Grainger may be subject to claims that it has infringed on the intellectual property rights of others, which could subject Grainger to liability, require Grainger to obtain licenses to use those rights at significant cost or otherwise cause Grainger to modify its operations. In order to compete, Grainger must attract, retain, train, motivate and develop key employees, and the failure to do so could have an adverse effect on results of operations. In order to compete and have continued growth, Grainger must attract, retain, train, motivate and develop executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical, sales, marketing and IT support positions. Grainger competes to hire employees at increasingly competitive wage rates and then must train them and develop their skills and competencies. Qualified individuals needed to fill open positions may be in short supply in some areas. Further, changes in market compensation rates may adversely affect the Company's labor costs. Competition for qualified employees could require the Company to pay higher wages to attract a sufficient number of employees. The performance of Grainger’s stock price could impact Grainger’s use of equity-based compensation to attract and retain executives and other key employees. The Company's employee hiring and 18 retention also depends on the Company's ability to build and maintain a diverse and inclusive workplace culture that enables its employees to thrive. Grainger’s results of operations could be adversely affected by increased costs due to generally higher wage rates, competition for diverse talent, higher employee turnover, increased employee benefit costs, failure to successfully hire executives and key employees or the loss of executives and key employees. Further, changes in the Company's management team may be disruptive to its business, and any failure to successfully transition and assimilate key new hires or promoted employees could adversely affect its business and results of operations. Grainger’s continued success is substantially dependent on positive perceptions of Grainger’s reputation. One of the reasons customers choose to do business with Grainger and employees choose Grainger as a place of employment is the reputation that Grainger has built over many years. Grainger devotes time and resources to environmental, social and governance (ESG) efforts that are consistent with its corporate values and are designed to strengthen its business and protect and preserve its reputation, including programs driving ethics and corporate responsibility, strong communities, diversity, equity and inclusion, gender equality and environmental sustainability. These efforts and programs could be difficult to achieve and costly to implement, and Grainger’s actual or perceived failure to execute its ESG programs as planned could adversely affect the Company’s reputation, business and financial performance. To be successful in the future, Grainger must continue to preserve, grow and leverage the value of Grainger’s brand. Reputational value is based in large part on perceptions of subjective qualities. Even an isolated incident, or the aggregate effect of individually insignificant incidents, can erode trust and confidence, particularly if they result in adverse publicity, governmental investigations or litigation, and as a result, could tarnish Grainger’s brand and lead to adverse effects on Grainger’s business. Regulatory, Legal and Tax Risks Grainger is subject to various domestic and foreign laws, regulations and standards. Failure to comply or unforeseen developments in related contingencies such as litigation could adversely affect Grainger's financial condition, profitability and cash flows. Grainger’s business is subject to legislative, legal, and regulatory risks and conditions specific to the countries in which it operates. In addition to Grainger’s U.S. operations, which in 2022 generated approximately 82% of its consolidated net sales, Grainger operates its business principally through wholly owned subsidiaries in Canada,  Mexico, and the U.K., and its majority-owned subsidiary in Japan. The wide array of laws, regulations and standards in each domestic and foreign jurisdiction where Grainger operates, include, but are not limited to, advertising, marketing and Internet regulations (including the use of proprietary or third-party “cookies” in connection with Grainger’s eCommerce platforms), anti-bribery and corruption laws, anti-competition regulations, data protection (including, because Grainger accepts credit cards, the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard), data privacy (including in the U.S., the California Consumer Privacy Act and Privacy Rights Act, in Japan, the Act on Protection of Personal Information, and in the European Union, the General Data Protection Regulation 2016) and cybersecurity requirements (including protection of information and incident responses), environmental protection laws, foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions, health and safety laws, import and export compliance (including the U.S. Commerce Department’s Export Administration Regulations, trade sanctions promulgated by the Office of Foreign Asset Control and anti-money laundering regulations), intellectual property laws, labor laws (including federal and state wage and hour laws), product compliance or safety laws, supplier regulations regarding the sources of supplies or products, tax laws (including as to U.S. taxes on foreign subsidiaries), unclaimed property laws and laws, regulations and standards applicable to other commercial matters. Moreover, Grainger is also subject to audits and inquiries in the normal course of business. Failure to comply with any of these laws, regulations and standards could result in civil, criminal, monetary and non-monetary fines, penalties, remediation costs and/or significant legal fees as well as potential damage to the Company’s reputation. Changes in these laws, regulations and standards, or in their interpretation, could increase the cost of doing business, including, among other factors, as a result of increased investments in technology and the development of new operational processes. Furthermore, while Grainger has implemented policies and procedures and provides training designed to facilitate compliance with these laws, regulations and standards, there can be no assurance that employees, contractors, suppliers, vendors, or other third parties will not violate such laws, regulations and standards or Grainger’s policies. Any such failure to comply or violation could individually or in the aggregate materially adversely affect Grainger’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 19 In addition, Grainger’s business and results of operations in the U.K. may be negatively affected by changes in trade policies, or changes in labor, immigration, tax or other laws, resulting from the U.K.’s exit from the European Union. Grainger is subject to a number of rules and regulations related to its government contracts, which may result in increased compliance costs and potential liabilities. Grainger’s contracts with federal, state and local government entities are subject to various and changing regulations related to procurement, formation and performance. In addition, the Company’s government contracts may provide for termination, reduction or modification by the government at any time, with or without cause. From time to time, Grainger is subject to governmental or regulatory investigations or audits related to its compliance with these rules and regulations. Violations of these regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions, the inability to participate in existing or future government contracting and other administrative sanctions. Any such penalties could result in damage to the Company’s reputation, increased costs of compliance and/or remediation and could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. In conducting its business, Grainger may become subject to legal proceedings or governmental investigations, including in connection with product liability or product compliance claims if people, property or the environment are harmed by Grainger’s products or services. Grainger is, and from time to time may become, party to a number of legal proceedings or governmental investigations for alleged violations of laws, rules or regulations. Grainger also may be subject to disputes and proceedings incidental to its business, including product-related claims for personal injury or illness, death, environmental or property damage or other commercial disputes, including the proceedings discussed in Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Form 10-K. The defense of these proceedings may require significant expenses and divert management’s time and attention, and Grainger may be required to pay damages that could individually or in the aggregate materially adversely affect its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, any insurance or indemnification rights that Grainger may have with respect to such matters may be insufficient or unavailable to protect the Company against potential loss exposures. Grainger also may be requested or required to recall products or take other actions. The Company’s reputation could also be adversely affected by any resulting negative publicity. Tax changes could affect Grainger’s effective tax rate and future profitability. Grainger’s future results could be adversely affected by changes in the effective tax rate as a result of Grainger’s relative overall profitability and the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in tax legislation, the results of the examination of previously filed tax returns, and continuing assessment of the Company’s tax exposures. For example, the Company continues to monitor the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (IRA) and other similar regulatory developments to evaluate their potential impact on Grainger’s tax rate, financial statements and share repurchase program. Grainger may be adversely impacted by the effects of climate change and may incur increased costs and experience other impacts due to new or more stringent environmental laws and regulations designed to address climate change. The potential impacts of climate change on the Company’s suppliers, product offerings, operations, facilities and customers are accelerating and uncertain. Increased public awareness and concern regarding global climate change may result in more international, federal, and/or state or other stakeholder requirements or expectations that could result in more restrictive or expansive standards, such as stricter limits on greenhouse gas emissions or more prescriptive reporting of environmental, social, and governance metrics. There continues to be a lack of consistent climate change legislation and standards, which creates economic and regulatory uncertainty. New laws, regulations and enforcement could strain the Company’s suppliers and result in increased compliance-related costs, which could result in higher product costs that are passed to the Company. New or changing environmental laws and regulations could also increase the Company’s operating costs, including through higher utility and transportation costs, and Grainger is unable to predict the potential impact such laws and regulations could have on its financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the potential physical risks of climate change may impact the availability and cost of materials and natural resources, sources and supply of energy and product demand, and could increase the Company’s operating costs. Natural disasters as a result of climate change at locations where the Company, its suppliers or customers operate could cause disruptions to the Company’s operations, which could adversely affect sales and could negatively impact Grainger’s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows . If environmental laws and regulations are either changed or adopted that impose significant operational restrictions or compliance requirements upon the Company or its suppliers, products, 20 or customers, or the Company's operations are disrupted due to physical impacts of climate change, the Company's business, capital expenditures, financial condition, results of operations and competitive position could be negatively impacted. Credit and Liquidity Risks Changes in Grainger’s credit ratings and outlook may reduce access to capital and increase borrowing costs. Grainger’s credit ratings are based on a number of factors, including the Company’s financial strength and factors outside of Grainger’s control, such as conditions affecting Grainger’s industry generally or the introduction of new rating practices and methodologies. Grainger cannot provide assurances that its current credit ratings will remain in effect or that the ratings will not be lowered, suspended or withdrawn entirely by the rating agencies. If rating agencies lower, suspend or withdraw the ratings, the market price or marketability of Grainger’s securities may be adversely affected. In addition, any change in ratings could make it more difficult for the Company to raise capital on favorable terms, impact the Company’s ability to obtain adequate financing, and result in higher interest costs for the Company’s existing credit facilities or on future financings. Grainger has incurred substantial indebtedness and may incur substantial additional indebtedness, which could adversely affect cash flow, decrease business flexibility, or prevent Grainger from fulfilling its obligations. As of December 31, 2022, Grainger’s consolidated indebtedness was approximately $2.3 billion. The Company’s indebtedness could, among other things, limit Grainger’s ability to respond to rapidly changing business and economic conditions, require the Company to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flows to the payment of principal and interest on its indebtedness, reducing the funds available for other business purposes, and make it more difficult to satisfy the Company’s financial obligations as they come due during periods of adverse economic and industry conditions. The agreements governing Grainger’s debt agreements and instruments contain representations, warranties, affirmative, negative and financial covenants, and default provisions. Grainger’s failure to comply with these restrictions and obligations could result in a default under such agreements, which may allow Grainger’s creditors to accelerate the related indebtedness. Any such acceleration could have a material adverse effect on Grainger’s business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and its ability to obtain financing on favorable terms in the future. In addition, Grainger may in the future seek to raise additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, refinancing of indebtedness, share repurchases or other general corporate purposes. Grainger’s ability to obtain additional financing will be dependent on, among other things, the Company’s financial condition, prevailing market conditions and numerous other factors beyond the Company’s control. Such additional financing may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Any inability to obtain financing when needed could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

Objective The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis (MD&A) of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is intended to help the reader understand the results of operations and financial condition of W.W. Grainger, Inc. (Grainger or Company) as it is viewed by the Company. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes included in Part II, Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Form 10-K. This section of this Form 10-K generally discusses 2022 and 2021 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2022 and 2021 . Discussions of 2020 items and year-to-year comparisons between 2021 and 2020 are not included in this Form 10-K, and can be found in MD&A of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Part II, Item 7 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021. Percentage figures included in this section have not been calculated on the basis of such rounded figures but on the basis of such amounts prior to rounding. For this reason, percentage amounts in this section may vary slightly from those obtained by performing the same calculations using the figures in the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements or in the associated text. Overview W.W. Grainger, Inc. is a broad line distributor of maintenance, repair and operating (MRO) products and services with operations primarily in North America (N.A.), Japan and the United Kingdom (U.K.). Grainger uses a combination of its high-touch solutions and endless assortment businesses to serve its customers worldwide, which rely on Grainger for products and services that enable them to run safe, sustainable and productive operations. Strategic Priorities The Company’s continued strategic priority for 2023 is to relentlessly expand Grainger’s leadership position in the MRO space by being the go-to partner for people who build and run safe and productive operations. To achieve this, each Grainger business has a set of strategic objectives. The high-touch solutions businesses are focused on key initiatives that drive top-line revenue and MRO market outgrowth. Additionally, the high-touch solutions businesses are focused on growing through differentiated sales and services (e.g., direct customer relationships and onsite services), advantaged MRO solutions (e.g., get customers the exact products and services they need to solve a problem quickly) and unparalleled customer service (e.g., deliver flawlessly on every customer transaction). The endless assortment businesses are focused on product assortment expansion and innovative customer acquisition and retention. Additionally, all Grainger businesses are focused on continuously improving customer experience, productivity and optimizing and scaling cost structures and investing in digital marketing, technology and supply chain infrastructure to ultimately deliver long-term returns for shareholders. Recent Events Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 In August 2022, the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (IRA) was signed into United States (U.S.) law. Under the IRA, there is a new 15% corporate minimum tax and a new 1% excise tax on net stock repurchases, effective after December 31, 2022. In addition, the IRA contains provisions relating to climate change, energy and health care. Based on Grainger's current analysis of the provisions, the Company does not anticipate compliance with the IRA will result in a material impact to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Inflationary Cost Environment and Macroeconomic Pressures In combination with the economic recovery of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, the global economy continues to experience volatile disruptions including to the commodity, labor and transportation markets. These disruptions have contributed to an inflationary environment which has affected, and may continue to affect, the price and availability of certain products and services necessary for the Company's operations. Such disruptions have impacted, and may continue to impact, the Company's business, financial condition and results of operations. As a result of continued inflation, the Company has implemented strategies designed to mitigate certain adverse effects of higher costs while also remaining market price competitive. The Company continues to monitor economic conditions in the U.S. and globally, and the impact of macroeconomic pressures, including rising interest rates, fluctuating currency exchange rates and recession fears, on the Company’s business, customers, suppliers and other third parties. Historically, the Company’s broad and diverse 25 customer base and the nondiscretionary nature of the Company’s products to its customers has helped it perform well in the industrial MRO market in recessionary periods. The full extent and impact of these conditions are uncertain and cannot be predicted at this time. Geopolitical Events In February 2022, Russia i nvaded Ukraine. In response to the conflict, the U.S. and other countries have implemented economic and other sanctions. While Grainger has limited direct exposure in Russia and Ukraine, the Company continues to monitor any broader impact on the global economy, including with respect to inflation, supply chains and fuel prices. The full impact of the conflict on the Company’s business and financial results remains uncertain and will depend on the severity and duration of the conflict and its impact on global and regional economic conditions. The Company does not currently expect significant disruption to its overall business resulting from these events. For further discussion of the Company's risks and uncertainties, see Part I, Item 1A: Risk Factors of this Form 10-K. 26 Results of Operations The following table is included as an aid to understanding changes in Grainger's Consolidated Statements of Earnings (in millions of dollars). The following table is included as an aid to understanding the changes in Grainger's total net sales and daily sales from the prior period to the most recent period (in millions of dollars): Net sales of $15,228 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 increased $2,206 million, or 16.9%, compared to the same period in 2021. The increase in net sales was primarily due to growth in the High-Touch Solutions N.A. and Endless Assortment segments in 2022. For further discussion on the Company's net sales, see the Segment Analysis section below. 27 Gross profit of $5,849 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 increased $1,129 million, or 24%, compared to the same period in 2021. Gr oss profit margi n of 38.4% increased 2.2 percentage points compared to the same pe riod in 2021. The increase was driven by favorability in the High-Touch Solutions N.A. and Endless Assortment segments. For further discus sion on the Company's gross profit, see the Segment Analysis section below. SG&A of $3,634 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 increased $461 million, or 15%, compared to the same period in 2021. The increase was primarily due to higher marketing, payroll and variable compensation expenses in 2022. Operating earning s of $2,215 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 increased $668 million, or 43%, compared to the same period in 2021. The increase was driven by higher gross profit dollars, partially offset by higher SG&A. Other expense – net of $69 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 increased $7 million, or 11%, compared to the same period in 2021. The increase was primarily driven by unfavorable changes in market interest rates in 2022. Income taxes of $533 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 increased $162 million, or 44%, com pared to the sam e period in 2021. The increase was primarily driven by higher taxable operating earnings for the full year 2022. Grainger's effective tax rates were 24.8% and 25.0% for the twelve months ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Net e arnings of $1,547 million attributable to W.W. Grainger, Inc. for the year ended December 31, 2022 increased $504 million, or 48%, compared to the same period in 2021 . Diluted earnings per share was $30.06 for the year ended December 31, 2022, an increase of 52% compared to $19.84 for the same period in 2021. The increase was primarily due to higher net earnings in 2022. 28 Non-GAAP Measures The following tables reconcile reported selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses, operating earnings, net earnings attributable to W.W. Grainger, Inc. and diluted earnings per share determined in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) to non-GAAP measures including adjusted SG&A, adjusted operating earnings, adjusted net earnings attributable to W.W. Grainger, Inc. and adjusted diluted earnings per share. The Company believes that these non-GAAP measures provide meaningful information to assist investors in understanding financial results and assessing prospects for future performance as they provide a better baseline for analyzing the ongoing performance of its businesses by excluding items that may not be indicative of core operating results. Because non-GAAP financial measures are not standardized, it may not be possible to compare these measures with other companies' non-GAAP measures having the same or similar names. The following tables provide a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP measures (in millions of dollars): Noted in the table above for the twelve months ended December 31, 2022, Grainger divested Cromwell's wholly owned software business in the U.K. (Cromwell subsidiary). As a result of the divestiture, the Company recorded a gain in Other businesses of $21 million in SG&A in the fourth quarter of 2022. Excluding the business divestiture, adjusted SG&A and adjusted operating earnings for the full year 2022 were $3,655 and $2,194, an increase of $482 million and $647 million, or 15% and 42%, respectively, compared to the same period in 2021. Grainger's adjusted effective tax rate was 25.1% for the twelve months ended December 31, 2022. The divestiture was non-taxable. The Company's adjusted net earnings attributable to W.W. Grainger Inc. for the full year 2022 was $1,526 million, an increase of $483 million, or 46%, compared to the same period in 2021. Adjusted diluted earnings per share of $29.66 increased 49% compared to $19.84 for the twelve months ended December 31, 2021. 29 Segment Analysis For further segment information, see Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Form 10-K. High-Touch Solutions N.A. The following table shows reported segment results (in millions of dollars): Net sales of $12,182 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 increased $1,996 million , or 19.6% , compared to the same period in 2021. On a daily basis, net sales increased 19.1%. This consisted of increased price, which includes customer mix, of 10.6% and increased volume, which includes product mix, of 8.7%, partially offset by unfavorable foreign exchange of 0.2%. Gross profit of $4,951 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 increased $1,045 million , or 27% , compared to the same period in 2021. Gross profit margin of 40.6% increased 2.3 percentage points compared to the same period in 2021. The increase was primarily due to favorable product mix and lapping of prior year pandemic-related inventory adjustments. SG&A of $2,968 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 increased $396 million , or 15% , compared to the same period in 2021. The increase was primarily due to higher payroll, marketing and variable compensation expenses in 2022. SG& A leverage improved by 0.9 percentage point. Operating earnings of $1,983 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 increased $649 million, or 49%, compared to the same period in 2021. The increase was driven by higher gross profit dollars, partially offset by higher SG&A. Endless Assortment The following table shows reported segment results (in millions of dollars): Net sales of $2,787 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 increased $211 million, or 8.2%, compared to the same period in 2021 and on a daily basis, net sales increased 7.7%. The increase was due to sales growth of 20.1%, driven by strong new customer acquisition and repeat business for the segment, as well as enterprise customer growth at MonotaRO, partially offset by unfavorable foreign exchange of 12.4% due to changes in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and the Japanese yen. 30 Gross profit of $817 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 increased $88 million, or 12%, compared to the same period in 2021. Gross profit margin of 29.3% increased 1.0 percentage point compared to the same period in 2021. The increase was driven by freight efficiencies and business unit mix in 2022. SG&A of $594 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 increased $97 million, or 19%, compared to the same period in 2021. The increase was due to higher payroll and benefits, occupancy and marketing expenses to support the continued growth of the segment in 2022. SG&A leverage decreased 2.0 percentage points. Operating earnings of $223 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 decreased $9 million, or 4%, compared to the same period in 2021. The decrease was primarily driven by higher SG&A, partially offset by higher gross profit dollars. Other Net sales of $259 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 decreased $1 million, or 0.2%, compared to the same period in 2021. The decrease was driven by unfavorable foreign exchange of 11.3% due to changes in the exchange rate between the U.S. dollar and British pound sterling, partially offset by increased sales growth due to improved customer mix of 11.1%. Operating earnings of $9 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 increased $28 million, or 145%, compared to the same period in 2021. The increase was due to the divestiture of Cromwell's software business in the fourth quarter of 2022. 31 Liquidity and Capital Resources Grainger believes its current balances of cash and cash equivale nts, marketable securities and availability under its revolving credit facilities will be sufficient to meet its liquidity needs for the next 12 months and beyond. Grainger also maintains access to capital markets and may issue debt or equity securities from time to time, which may provide an additional source of liquidity. The Company will continue to assess its liquidity position and potential sources of supplemental liquidity in view of Grainger's operating performance, current economic and capital market conditions and other relevant circumstances. Sources of Liquidity Cash and Cash Equivalents As of December 31, 2022 and 2021, Grainger had cash and cash equivalents of $325 million and $241 million, respectively. The increase in cash was primarily due to cash flows from operations and lower volume of share repurchases, partially offset by working capital changes and higher tax disbursements in 2022. The Company had approximately $1.6 billion in available liquidity as of December 31, 2022. Cash Flows The following table shows the Company's cash flow activity for the periods presented (in millions of dollars): Debt Grainger maintains a debt ratio and liquidity position that provides flexibility in funding working capital needs and long-term cash requirements. Grainger has various sources of financing available. For further information regarding the Company's debt instruments and available financing sources, see Note 6 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Form 10-K. Total debt, which is defined as total interest-bearing debt and lease liabilities as a percent of total capitalization, was 49.9% and 56.2%, as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Credit Ratings Grainger receives ratings from two independent credit ratings agencies: Moody's Investor Service (Moody's) and Standard & Poor's (S&P). Both credit rating agencies currently rate the Company's corporate credit at investment grade. The following table summarizes the Company's credit ratings as of December 31, 2022: 32 Uses of Liquidity Internally generated cash flows are the primary source of Grainger's working capital and growth initiatives, including capital expenditures. The Company expects to continue to return excess capital to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends. Working Capital The Company's working capital was $2,864 million at December 31, 2022, compared to $2,455 million at December 31, 2021. The increase was driven by higher accounts receivable and inventory primarily due to sales growth and inflation , partially offset by increased accounts payable. As of December 31, 2022 and 2021, the ratio of current assets to current liabilities was 2.5 and 2.7, respectively. Capital Expenditures In fiscal 2022, the Company continued U.S. and Japanese supply chain investments. Capital expenditures were $256 million and $255 million for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Capital project spending for 2023 is expected to be in the range of $450 and $525 million. This includes continued supply chain capacity expansion and technology enhancements across the Company. Share Repurchases For the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, Grainger repurchased shares of its common stock in the open market for $603 million and $695 million, respectively. Share repurchases are executed at prices the Company determines appropriate subject to various factors, including market conditions and the Company's financial performance and may be effected through accelerated share repurchase programs, open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions, including through Rule 10b5-1 plans. Share repurchases for 2023 are expected to be in the r ange of $550 and $700 million. Dividends For the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, Grainger declared and paid $370 million and $357 million, respectively, in dividends to holders of the Company's common stock. Commitments and Other Contractual Obligations The Company's material cash requirements include the following commitments and other contractual obligations. Debt As of December 31, 2022, the Company had outstanding debt obligations with varying maturities for an aggregate principal amount of $2,374 million, with $35 million pa ya ble within 12 months. Total future interest payments associated with the Company's outstanding debt obligations was $1,843 million, with $87 million payable within 12 months. Purchase Obligations Grainger had purchase obligations of approximately $1,563 million as of December 31, 2022 , which includes approximately $1,407 million payable within 12 months. Grainger's purchase obligations primarily include commitments to purchase inventory, uncompleted additions to property, buildings and equipment and other goods and services. Purchase obligations are made in the normal course of business to meet operating needs and are primarily noncancelable. Leases The Company has lease arrangements for certain properties, buildings and equipment (including branches, warehouses, DCs and office space) . As of December 31, 2022 , the Company had fixed operating lease payment obligations of $405 million, with $77 million payable within 12 months. 33 Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of Grainger’s Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes are in conformity with GAAP and the Company’s discussion and analysis of its financial condition and operating results require the Company’s management to make assumptions and estimates that affect the reported amounts. The Company considers an accounting policy to be a critical estimate if: (1) it involves assumptions that are uncertain when judgment was applied, and (2) changes in the estimate assumptions, or selection of a different estimate methodology, could have a significant impact on Grainger’s consolidated financial position and results. While the Company believes the assumptions and estimates used are reasonable, the Company’s management bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions it believes to be reasonable under the circumstances. Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Form 10-K describes the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements. Inventories Company inventories primarily consist of merchandise purchased for resale and are valued at the lower of cost or net realizable value. The majority of the Company’s inventory is accounted for using the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method. Net realizable value is based on an analysis of inventory trends including, but not limited to, reviews of inventory levels, sales and cost information and on-hand quantities relative to the sales history for the product and shelf-life. The Company's methodology for estimating whether adjustments are necessary is continually evaluated for factors including significant changes in product demand, liquidation or disposition history values and market conditions such as inflation and other acquisition costs, including freight and duties. If business or economic conditions change, estimates and assumptions may be adjusted as deemed appropriate. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets The Company evaluates goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually during the fourth quarter and more frequently if impairment indicators exist. The fair value of reporting units is calculated primarily using the discounted cash flow method and utilizing value indicators from a market approach to evaluate the reasonableness of the resulting fair values. The Company’s indefinite-lived intangible assets are primarily trade names. The fair value of trade names is calculated primarily using the relief-from-royalty method, which estimates the expected royalty savings attributable to the ownership of the trade name asset. The estimates used to calculate the fair values of reporting units and indefinite-lived intangible assets involve the use of significant assumptions, estimates and judgments and changes from year to year based on operating results, market conditions, macroeconomic developments and other factors. Changes in these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination of fair value and impairment for each reporting unit and indefinite-lived i ntangible asset. For further information on the Company's goodwill and other intangible assets, see Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Form 10-K. Contingencies and Legal Matters The Company is subject to various claims and legal proceedings that arise in the ordinary course of business, the outcomes of which are inherently uncertain. The Company accrues for costs relating to litigation claims and other contingent matters when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the assessment can be reasonably estimated. A detailed summary of the Company’s contingencies and legal matters is included in Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Form 10-K. 34