********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

The following is a discussion of significant risk factors relevant to Grainger’s business that could adversely affect its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. The risk factors discussed in this section should be considered together with information included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and should not be considered the only risks to which the Company is exposed. Grainger’s business and operations have been and may continue to be adversely affected by the global outbreak of the Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic and may be adversely affected by other global outbreaks of pandemic disease. Any global outbreaks of pandemic disease, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, could have a material adverse effect on Grainger’s business, results of operations and financial condition, including liquidity, capital and financing resources. The COVID-19 pandemic has disrupted and adversely affected Grainger’s business, including its business with customers and suppliers . Grainger has experienced customer disruptions to their ability or willingness to purchase Grainger products, customer delays in making purchasing decisions, shifts in the types and quantities of products purchased and, in some cases, diminished customer loyalty and retention rates. These may continue to persist during and beyond the COVID-19 pandemic. Grainger has also experienced and may continue to experience supplier disruptions to their supply chains, supplier inability to manufacture or sell products to Grainger or meet the unprecedented demand for pandemic-related products, rapid shifts in the type, quantity or quality of products sold, and higher product costs. Additional effects on Grainger's business include disruptions or closures of customer and supplier facilities, and their ability to continue as a going concern. Furthermore, Grainger's ability to collect its accounts receivable or receive product ordered from suppliers, as customers and suppliers face higher liquidity and solvency risks and seek terms that are less favorable to Grainger, may adversely affect the Company’s business. These developments, alone or in combination, could materially adversely affect Grainger’s future sales and results of operations. The effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on Grainger also include restrictions on Grainger’s employees’ ability to visit customers and many of Grainger’s employees’ ability to work in offices or at facilities, as well as disruptions or temporary closures of the Company’s facilities, including distribution centers, branches, and support buildings. Some actions that Grainger has taken in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, including enabling remote working arrangements, may create increased vulnerability to cybersecurity incidents, including breaches of information systems security, which could damage Grainger’s reputation and commercial relationships, disrupt operations, increase costs and/or decrease revenues, and expose Grainger to claims from customers, suppliers, financial institutions, regulators, payment card association, employees and others. In addition, Grainger’s remote working arrangements have required the Company to make adaptions to its controls and procedures, including to its financial reporting processes, that could impact the design or operating effectiveness of such controls or procedures. Furthermore, as result of surges in demand and disruptions in supply chains, including in China and other locations, the COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in shortages of certain PPE, cleaning supplies and other products, which may materially impact Grainger's ability to obtain or deliver inventory to customers on a timely basis or at all. While Grainger attempts to maintain sufficient inventory levels to meet quickly shifting customer demand patterns and supplier lead time requirements, which may become extended due to the pandemic demand increase, the Company cannot be certain it will be able to accurately predict demand or lead times, which might cause it to be unable to service customer demand or expose it to risks of product shortages, or acquire excess inventory, which could lead to additional inventory carrying costs and inventory obsolescence. Pandemic product shortages may also require the Company to attempt to procure products from new suppliers or through brokers with whom it has a limited or no prior relationship. Despite due diligence and product compliance protocols, the products from these sources may not be delivered on a timely basis or at all, or their quality may not be as represented, all of which could cause Grainger to incur costs, including the expense of procuring alternate products or recalling or replacing products in addition to other adverse impacts to Grainger’s business. Moreover, global outbreaks such as the COVID-19 pandemic have resulted in a widespread health crisis that has adversely affected and could continue to adversely affect the economies of many countries, resulting in a global or regional economic downturn or recession. Any such recession could result in a significant decline in demand for the 12 Company’s products or limit Grainger’s ability to access capital markets on terms that are attractive or at all, any of which could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The duration and ultimate impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the Company’s business, results of operations and financial condition, including liquidity, capital and financing resources, will depend on numerous evolving factors and future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted at this time. Such factors and developments may include the geographic spread, severity and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic, including whether there are periods of increased COVID-19 cases, disruption to Grainger’s operations resulting from employee illnesses, the development, availability and administration of effective treatment or vaccines, the extent and duration of the impact on the U.S. or global economy, including the pace and extent of recovery when the pandemic subsides, and the actions that have been or may be taken by various governmental authorities in response to the outbreak, including current and future health and safety measures, such as mandatory facility closures of non-essential businesses, stay in shelter health orders or similar restrictions, social distancing mandates and travel bans, import and export restrictions, pricing mandates, including disaster or emergency declaration pricing statutes, and mandatory directives that certain products be allocated or provided to certain customers, which could disrupt the Company’s relationship with customers, among other actions. If the Company is unable to respond to and manage the impact of these events, the Company’s business and results of operations may continue to be adversely affected. Weakness in the economy, market trends and other conditions affecting the profitability and financial stability of Grainger’s customers could negatively impact Grainger’s sales growth and results of operations. Economic, political and industry trends affect Grainger’s business environments. Grainger serves several industries and markets in which the demand for its products and services is sensitive to the production activity, capital spending and demand for products and services of Grainger’s customers. Many of these customers operate in markets that are subject to cyclical fluctuations resulting from market uncertainty, trade and tariff policies, costs of goods sold, currency exchange rates, central bank interest rate changes, foreign competition, offshoring of production, oil and natural gas prices, geopolitical developments, labor shortages, inflation, natural or human induced disasters, extreme weather, outbreaks of pandemic disease such as the COVID-19 pandemic, deflation, and a variety of other factors beyond Grainger’s control. Any of these factors could cause customers to idle or close facilities, delay purchases, reduce production levels, or experience reductions in the demand for their own products or services. Any of these events could also reduce the volume of products and services these customers purchase from Grainger or impair the ability of Grainger’s customers to make full and timely payments and could cause increased pressure on Grainger’s selling prices and terms of sale. Accordingly, a significant or prolonged slowdown in economic activity in Canada, China, Japan, Mexico, the U.K., the U.S. or any other major world economy, or a segment of any such economy, could negatively impact Grainger’s sales growth and results of operations. The facilities maintenance industry is highly competitive, and changes in competition could result in decreased demand for Grainger’s products and services. Grainger competes in a variety of ways, including product assortment and availability, services offered to customers, pricing, purchasing convenience, and the overall experience Grainger offers. This includes the ease of use of Grainger’s high-touch operations (branches and digital platforms) and delivery of products. There are several large competitors in the industry, although most of the market is served by small local and regional competitors. Grainger faces competition in all markets it serves from manufacturers (including some of its own suppliers) that sell directly to certain segments of the market, wholesale distributors, catalog houses, retail enterprises and online businesses that compete with price transparency. To remain competitive, the Company must be willing and able to respond to market pressures. Downward pressure on sales prices, changes in the volume of orders, and an inability to pass higher product costs on to customers could cause Grainger’s gross profit percentage to fluctuate or decline. Grainger may not be able to pass rising product costs to customers if those customers have ready product or supplier alternatives in the marketplace. These pressures could have a material effect on Grainger’s sales and profitability. If the Company is unable to grow sales or reduce costs, among other actions, the Company’s results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. 13 Moreover, Grainger expects technological advancements and the increased use of eCommerce solutions within the industry to continue to evolve at a rapid pace. As a result, Grainger’s ability to effectively compete requires Grainger to respond and adapt to new industry trends and developments. Implementing new technology and innovations may result in unexpected costs and interruptions to operations, may take longer than expected, and may not provide all anticipated benefits. Volatility in commodity prices may adversely affect gross margins. Some of Grainger’s products contain significant amounts of commodity-priced materials, such as steel, copper, petroleum derivatives, rare earth minerals, or other materials or inputs required to manufacture PPE and other pandemic-related products and are subject to price changes based on fluctuations in the commodities market. The price of commodities has historically been subject to substantial volatility, which among other things, could be driven by economic, monetary, political or weather-related factors. Fluctuations in the price of fuel or increased demand for freight services, including as a result of outbreaks of pandemic disease such as the COVID-19 pandemic, could affect transportation costs. Grainger’s ability to pass on such increases in costs in a timely manner depends on market conditions. The inability to pass along cost increases could result in lower gross margins. In addition, higher prices could reduce demand for these products, resulting in lower sales volumes. Unexpected product shortages, tariffs, product cost increases and risks associated with Grainger’s suppliers could negatively impact customer relationships or result in an adverse impact on results of operations. Grainger’s competitive strengths include product selection and availability. Products are purchased from more than 4,500 suppliers located in various countries around the world, not one of which accounted for more than 5% of total purchases. While Grainger has not generally encountered significant difficulty in procuring sources of supply, disruptions could occur due to factors beyond Grainger’s control. These factors could include economic downturns, outbreaks of pandemic disease such as the COVID-19 pandemic (which from time to time has resulted in some shortages of PPE, cleaning supplies and other products), natural or human induced disasters, extreme weather, geopolitical unrest, tariffs, new tariffs or tariff increases, trade issues and policies, detention orders or withhold release orders on imported products, labor problems experienced by Grainger’s suppliers, transportation availability and cost, shortage of raw materials, unilateral product cost increases by suppliers of products in short supply, inflation and other factors, any of which could adversely affect a supplier’s ability to manufacture or deliver products or could result in an increase in Grainger’s product costs. Further, Grainger sources products from Asia and other areas of the world. This increases the risk of supply disruption due to the additional lead time required and distances involved. If Grainger was to experience difficulty in obtaining products, there could be a short-term adverse effect on results of operations and a longer-term adverse effect on customer relationships and Grainger’s reputation. In addition, Grainger has strategic relationships with a number of vendors. In the event Grainger was unable to maintain those relations, there might be a loss of competitive pricing advantages which could, in turn, adversely affect results of operations. Changes in customer base or product mix could cause changes in Grainger’s revenue or gross margin, or affect Grainger’s competitive position. From time to time, Grainger experiences changes in customer base and product mix that affect gross margin. Changes in customer base and product mix result primarily from business acquisitions, changes in customer demand, customer acquisitions, selling and marketing activities, competition and the increased use of eCommerce by Grainger and its competitors. For example, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Company has sold higher volumes of lower-margin pandemic-related products to larger, lower-margin customers, while non-pandemic sales have decreased. In addition, Grainger has entered, and may in the future continue to enter, into contracts with group purchasing organizations (“GPOs”) that aggregate the buying power of their member customers in negotiating selling prices. If the Company is unable to enter into, or sustain, contractual arrangements on a satisfactory commercial basis with GPOs, Grainger's results of operations could be adversely affected. 14 As customer base and product mix change over time, Grainger must identify new products, product lines and services that respond to industry trends and customer needs. The inability to introduce new products and services and effectively integrate them into Grainger’s existing mix could have a negative impact on future sales growth and Grainger’s competitive position. Disruptions in Grainger’s supply chain could result in an adverse impact on results of operations. The occurrence of one or more natural or human induced disasters, including earthquakes, storms, hurricanes, floods, fires, droughts, tornados and other extreme weather; pandemic diseases or viral contagions such as the COVID-19 pandemic; geopolitical events, such as war, civil unrest or terrorist attacks in a country in which Grainger operates or in which its suppliers are located; and the imposition of measures that create barriers to or increase the costs associated with international trade could result in disruption of Grainger’s logistics or supply chain network. For example, the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic has disrupted and may continue to disrupt the operations of the Company and its suppliers and customers. Any such disruption or other catastrophic event could cause one or more of Grainger’s distribution centers or branches to become non-operational, adversely affect Grainger’s ability to obtain or deliver inventory in a timely manner, impair Grainger’s ability to meet customer demand for products, result in lost sales, additional costs, or penalties, or damage Grainger’s reputation. Grainger’s ability to provide same-day shipping and next-day delivery is an integral component of Grainger’s business strategy and any such disruption could adversely impact results of operations and financial performance. Interruptions in the proper functioning of information systems could disrupt operations and cause unanticipated increases in costs and/or decreases in revenues. The proper functioning of Grainger’s information systems is critical to the successful operation of its business. Grainger continues to invest in software, hardware and network infrastructures in order to effectively manage its information systems. Although Grainger’s information systems are protected with robust backup and security systems, including physical and software safeguards and remote processing capabilities, information systems are still vulnerable to damage or interruption from natural or human induced disasters, extreme weather, power losses, telecommunication failures, user error, third party actions such as malicious computer programs, denial-of-service attacks and cybersecurity breaches, and other problems. In addition, from time to time Grainger relies on the information technology (IT) systems of third parties to assist in conducting its business. If Grainger’s systems or those of third parties on which Grainger depends are damaged, breached or cease to function properly, Grainger may have to make a significant investment to repair or replace them and may suffer interruptions in its business operations in the interim. If critical information systems fail or otherwise become unavailable, Grainger’s ability to operate its eCommerce platforms, process orders, maintain proper levels of inventories, collect accounts receivable, disburse funds, manage its supply chain, monitor results of operations, and process and store employee or customer data, among other functions, could be adversely affected. Any such interruption of Grainger’s information systems could have a material adverse effect on its business or results of operations. Cybersecurity incidents, including breaches of information systems security, could damage Grainger’s reputation, disrupt operations, increase costs and/or decrease revenues. Through Grainger’s sales and eCommerce channels, Grainger collects and stores personally identifiable, confidential, proprietary and other information from customers so that they may, among other things, purchase products or services, enroll in promotional programs, register on Grainger’s websites or otherwise communicate or interact with the Company. Moreover, Grainger’s operations routinely involve receiving, storing, processing and transmitting sensitive information pertaining to its business, customers, suppliers and employees, and other sensitive matters. Cyber threats are rapidly evolving and those threats and the means for obtaining access to information in digital and other storage media are becoming increasingly sophisticated. Each year, cyber-attackers make numerous attempts to access the information stored in the Company’s information systems. If successful, these attacks may expose Grainger to risk of loss or misuse of proprietary or confidential information or disruptions of business operations. Grainger's IT infrastructure also includes products and services provided by suppliers, vendors and other third parties, and these providers can experience breaches of their systems and products that impact the security of systems and proprietary or confidential information. Moreover, from time to time, Grainger may share information with these third parties in connection with the products and services they provide to the business. While Grainger requires assurances that these third parties will protect confidential information, there is a risk that the confidentiality of data held or accessed by them may be compromised. If successful, those attempting to penetrate Grainger’s or 15 its vendors’ information systems may misappropriate intellectual property or personally identifiable, credit card, confidential, proprietary or other sensitive customer, supplier, employee or business information, or cause systems disruption. While many of Grainger's agreements with these third parties include indemnification provisions, the Company may not be able to recover sufficiently, or at all, under such provisions to adequately offset any losses it may incur. Moreover, the Company may face the threat to its computer systems of unauthorized access, computer hackers, computer viruses, malicious code, ransomware, phishing, organized cyber-attacks and other security problems and system disruptions. Such tactics may also seek to cause payments due to or from the Company to be misdirected to fraudulent accounts, which may not be recoverable by the Company. In addition, a Grainger employee, contractor or other third party with whom Grainger does business may attempt to circumvent security measures in order to obtain such information or inadvertently cause a breach involving such information. Further, Grainger’s systems are integrated with customer systems in certain cases, and a breach of the Company’s information systems could be used to gain illicit access to a customer’s systems and information. Grainger maintains information security staff, policies and procedures for managing risk to its information security systems, conducts employee awareness training of cybersecurity threats and routinely utilizes consultants to assist in evaluating the effectiveness of the security of its IT systems. While Grainger has instituted these and other safeguards for the protection of information, because techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently and generally are not recognized until they are launched against a target, Grainger may be unable to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate preventative measures. Any breach of Grainger’s security measures or any breach, error or malfeasance of those of its third party service providers could cause Grainger to incur significant costs to protect any customers, suppliers, employees, and other parties whose personal data is compromised and to make changes to its information systems and administrative processes to address security issues. In addition, although Grainger maintains insurance coverage that may, subject to policy terms and conditions, cover certain aspects of cyber and information security risks, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses. Grainger continuously evaluates the need to upgrade and/or replace its systems and network infrastructure to protect its computing environment, to stay current on vendor supported products and to improve the efficiency of its systems and for other business reasons. The implementation of new systems and IT could adversely impact its operations by imposing substantial capital expenditures, demands on management time and risks of delays or difficulties in transitioning to new systems. In addition, the Company's systems implementations may not result in productivity improvements at the levels anticipated. Systems implementation disruption and any other IT disruption, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, could have an adverse effect on its business. Loss of customer, supplier, employee or intellectual property or other business information or failure to comply with data privacy and security laws could disrupt operations, damage Grainger’s reputation and expose Grainger to claims from customers, suppliers, financial institutions, regulators, payment card associations, employees and others, any of which could have a material adverse effect on Grainger, its financial condition and results of operations. In the past, Grainger has experienced certain cybersecurity incidents. In each instance, Grainger provided notifications and adopted remedial measures. While these incidents have not been deemed to be material to Grainger, there can be no assurance that a future breach or incident would not be material to Grainger’s operations and financial condition. Grainger’s ability to adequately protect its intellectual property or successfully defend against infringement claims by others may have an adverse impact on operations. Grainger’s business relies on the use, validity and continued protection of certain proprietary information and intellectual property, which includes current and future patents, trade secrets, trademarks, service marks, copyrights and confidentiality agreements as well as license and sublicense agreements to use intellectual property owned by affiliated entities or third parties. Unauthorized use of Grainger’s intellectual property by others could result in harm to various aspects of the business and may result in costly and protracted litigation in order to protect Grainger’s rights. In addition, Grainger may be subject to claims that it has infringed on the intellectual property rights of others, which could subject Grainger to liability, require Grainger to obtain licenses to use those rights at significant cost or otherwise cause Grainger to modify its operations. 16 Fluctuations in foreign currency could have an effect on reported results of operations. Grainger’s exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency rates results primarily from the translation exposure associated with the preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements (Financial Statements), as well as from transaction exposure associated with transactions in currencies other than an entity’s functional currency. While the Financial Statements are reported in U.S. dollars, the financial statements of Grainger’s subsidiaries outside the U.S. are prepared using the local currency as the functional currency and translated into U.S. dollars. In addition, Grainger is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to the U.S. dollar relative to the local currencies of Grainger’s international subsidiaries, primarily the Canadian dollar, euro, pound sterling, Mexican peso, renminbi and yen, arising from transactions in the normal course of business, such as sales and loans to wholly owned subsidiaries, sales to customers, purchases from suppliers, and bank loans and lines of credit denominated in foreign currencies. Grainger also has foreign currency exposure to the extent receipts and expenditures are not denominated in a subsidiary’s functional currency and that could have an impact on sales, costs and cash flows. These fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could affect Grainger’s results of operations and impact reported net sales and net earnings. In order to compete, Grainger must attract, retain, train, motivate, develop and transition key employees, and the failure to do so could have an adverse effect on results of operations. In order to compete and have continued growth, Grainger must attract, retain, train, motivate, develop and transition executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical, sales, marketing and IT support positions. Grainger competes to hire employees and then must train them and develop their skills and competencies. The Company's employee hiring and retention also depend on its ability to build and maintain a diverse and inclusive workplace culture that enables its employees to thrive. Grainger’s results of operations could be adversely affected by increased costs due to increased competition for diverse talent, higher employee turnover, increased employee benefit costs, failure to successfully hire executives and key employees or the loss of executives and key employees. Further, changes in the Company's management team may be disruptive to its business, and any failure to successfully transition and assimilate key new hires or promoted employees could adversely affect its business and results of operations. Grainger’s continued success is substantially dependent on positive perceptions of Grainger’s reputation. One of the reasons customers choose to do business with Grainger and employees choose Grainger as a place of employment is the reputation that Grainger has built over many years. Grainger devotes time and resources to environmental, social and governance (ESG) efforts that are consistent with its corporate values and are designed to strengthen its business and protect and preserve its reputation, including programs driving ethics and corporate responsibility, strong communities, diversity, equity and inclusion, gender equality and environmental sustainability. Grainger’s failure to execute its ESG programs as planned could adversely affect the Company’s reputation, business and financial performance. To be successful in the future, Grainger must continue to preserve, grow and leverage the value of Grainger’s brand. Reputational value is based in large part on perceptions of subjective qualities. Even an isolated incident, or the aggregate effect of individually insignificant incidents, can erode trust and confidence, particularly if they result in adverse publicity, governmental investigations or litigation, and as a result, could tarnish Grainger’s brand and lead to adverse effects on Grainger’s business. Grainger is subject to various domestic and foreign laws, regulations and standards. Failure to comply or unforeseen developments in related contingencies such as litigation could adversely affect Grainger’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Grainger’s business is subject to legislative, legal, and regulatory risks and conditions specific to the countries in which it operates. In addition to Grainger’s U.S. operations, which in 2020 generated approximately 78% of its consolidated net sales, Grainger operates its business principally through wholly-owned subsidiaries in Canada, China, Mexico, and the U.K., and its majority-owned subsidiary in Japan. The wide array of laws, regulations and standards in each domestic and foreign jurisdiction where Grainger operates, include, but are not limited to: advertising and marketing regulations, anti-bribery and corruption laws, anti-competition regulations, data protection (including, because Grainger accepts credit cards, the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard), data privacy (including in the U.S., the California Consumer Privacy Act, and in the European Union, the General Data Protection Regulation 2016) and cybersecurity requirements (including protection of information and incident responses), environmental protection laws, foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions, health and safety laws, import and export requirements, intellectual property laws, labor laws (including federal and state wage and hour laws), product compliance or safety laws, supplier regulations 17 regarding the sources of supplies or products, tax laws (including as to U.S. taxes on foreign subsidiaries), unclaimed property laws and laws, regulations and standards applicable to other commercial matters. Moreover, Grainger is also subject to audits and inquiries in the normal course of business. Failure to comply with any of these laws, regulations and standards could result in civil, criminal, monetary and non-monetary fines, penalties and/or, remediation costs as well as potential damage to the Company’s reputation. Changes in these laws, regulations and standards, or in their interpretation, could increase the cost of doing business, including, among other factors, as a result of increased investments in technology and the development of new operational processes. Furthermore, while Grainger has implemented policies and procedures designed to facilitate compliance with these laws, regulations and standards, there can be no assurance that employees, contractors, suppliers, vendors, or other third parties will not violate such laws, regulations and standards or Grainger’s policies. Any such failure to comply or violation could individually or in the aggregate materially adversely affect Grainger’s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, Grainger’s business and results of operations in the U.K. may be negatively affected by changes in trade policies, or changes in labor, immigration, tax or other laws, resulting from the U.K.’s exit from the European Union. Grainger is subject to a number of rules and regulations related to its government contracts, which may result in increased compliance costs and potential liabilities. Grainger’s contracts with U.S. federal, state and local government entities are subject to various and changing regulations related to procurement, formation and performance. In addition, the Company’s government contracts may provide for termination, reduction or modification by the government at any time, with or without cause. From time to time, Grainger is subject to governmental or regulatory investigations or audits related to its compliance with these rules and regulations. Violations of these regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions, the inability to participate in existing or future government contracting and other administrative sanctions. Any such penalties could result in damage to the Company’s reputation, increased costs of compliance and/or remediation and could adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations. In conducting its business Grainger may become subject to legal proceedings or governmental investigations, including in connection with product liability or product compliance claims if people, property or the environment are harmed by Grainger’s products or services. Grainger is, and from time to time may become, party to a number of legal proceedings or governmental investigations for alleged violations of laws, rules or regulations. Grainger also may be subject to disputes and proceedings incidental to its business, including product-related claims for personal injury or illness, death, environmental or property damage or other commercial disputes, including the proceedings discussed in Part I, Item 3. Legal Proceedings. The defense of these proceedings may require significant expenses and divert management’s time and attention, and Grainger may be required to pay damages that could individually or in the aggregate materially adversely affect its financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, any insurance or indemnification rights that Grainger may have with respect to such matters may be insufficient or unavailable to protect the Company against potential loss exposures. Grainger also may be requested or required to recall products or take other actions. The Company’s reputation could also be adversely affected by any resulting negative publicity. Tax changes could affect Grainger’s effective tax rate and future profitability. Grainger’s future results could be adversely affected by changes in the effective tax rate as a result of changes in Grainger’s overall profitability and changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in tax legislation, the results of the examination of previously filed tax returns and continuing assessment of the Company’s tax exposures. Grainger’s common stock may be subject to volatility or price declines. The trading prices and volumes of Grainger’s common stock may be subject to broad and unpredictable fluctuations due to changes in economic, political and market conditions, the financial results and business strategies of Grainger and its competitors, changes in expectations as to Grainger’s future financial or operating performance, including estimates by securities analysts and investors, the Company’s failure to meet the financial performance guidance or other forward-looking statements provided to the public, speculation, coverage or sentiment in the media or investment community or by groups of individual investors, changes in capital structure, share repurchase programs or dividend policies, outbreak of pandemic disease such as the COVID-19 pandemic, and a number of 18 other factors, including those discussed in this Item 1A. These factors, many of which are outside of Grainger’s control, could cause stock price and trading volume volatility or Grainger’s stock price to decline. Volatility in the price of Grainger's securities could result in the filing of securities class action litigation, which could result in substantial costs and the diversion of management time and resources. Changes in Grainger’s credit ratings and outlook may reduce access to capital and increase borrowing costs. Grainger’s credit ratings are based on a number of factors, including the Company’s financial strength and factors outside of Grainger’s control, such as conditions affecting Grainger’s industry generally or the introduction of new rating practices and methodologies. Grainger cannot provide assurances that its current credit ratings will remain in effect or that the ratings will not be lowered, suspended or withdrawn entirely by the rating agencies. If rating agencies lower, suspend or withdraw the ratings, the market price or marketability of Grainger’s securities may be adversely affected. In addition, any change in ratings could make it more difficult for the Company to raise capital on favorable terms, impact the Company’s ability to obtain adequate financing, and result in higher interest costs for the Company’s existing credit facilities or on future financings. Grainger has incurred substantial indebtedness and may incur substantial additional indebtedness, which could adversely affect cash flow, decrease business flexibility, or prevent Grainger from fulfilling its obligations. As of December 31, 2020, Grainger’s consolidated indebtedness was approximately $2.6 billion. The Company’s indebtedness could, among other things, limit Grainger’s ability to respond to rapidly changing business and economic conditions, require the Company to dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flows to the payment of principal and interest on its indebtedness, reducing the funds available for other business purposes, and make it more difficult to satisfy the Company’s financial obligations as they come due during periods of adverse economic and industry conditions. The agreements governing Grainger’s debt agreements and instruments contain representations, warranties, affirmative, negative and financial covenants, and default provisions. Grainger’s failure to comply with these restrictions and obligations could result in a default under such agreements, which may allow Grainger’s creditors to accelerate the related indebtedness. Any such acceleration could have a material adverse effect on Grainger’s business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and its ability to obtain financing on favorable terms in the future. In addition, Grainger may in the future seek to raise additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, refinancing of indebtedness, share repurchases or other general corporate purposes. Grainger’s ability to obtain additional financing will be dependent on, among other things, the Company’s financial condition, prevailing market conditions and numerous other factors beyond the Company’s control. Such additional financing may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Any inability to obtain financing when needed could materially adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition or results of operations.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

General W.W. Grainger, Inc. (Grainger or Company) is a broad line, business-to-business distributor of maintenance, repair and operating (MRO) products and services with operations primarily in North America, Japan and Europe. Grainger uses a combination of its high-touch and endless assortment businesses to serve its more than 5 million customers worldwide and which rely on Grainger for MRO products and services that enable them to run safe, sustainable and productive operations. Grainger’s two reportable segments are the U.S. and Canada. These reportable segments reflect the results of the Company's high-touch businesses in those geographies. Other businesses include the endless assortment businesses (Zoro in the U.S. and the United Kingdom (U.K.) and MonotaRO in Japan) and smaller international high-touch businesses in the U.K. and Mexico. Business Re-segmentation – Effective January 1, 2021 In February 2021, the Company announced a change to its reportable segments to align with its go-to-market strategies and bifurcated business models (high-touch and endless assortment). Accordingly, on or about March 8, 2021, the Company plans to publish the required restated financial information for the quarters ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 and for the twelve-month periods ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018. A supplemental investor call is expected to be scheduled on or about March 9, 2021 to discuss the Company's restated Form 8-K results and new segments. All summary financial information on a prospective basis will be presented under the new reportable segments beginning with the Company’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2021. Business Divestitures and Liquidations Consistent with the Company's strategic focus on broad line MRO distribution in key markets, in June 2020 Grainger divested the Fabory high-touch business, in August 2020 divested the China high-touch business (China) and in November 2020 commenced the liquidation of Zoro Tools Europe (ZTE) in Germany. Accordingly, the Company’s operating results include Fabory, China and ZTE results through the respective dates of divestiture or liquidation. In 2020, Grainger recognized a net loss of approximately $109 million, a gain of approximately $5 million and a loss of approximately $9 million (presented within Selling, general and administrative expenses (SG&A)) as a result of the Fabory, China and ZTE exits, respectively. The go-forward impacts from these business exits are not expected to be material for Company results in an individual or aggregated basis. Outlook The Company’s strategic priority for 2021 is clear: relentlessly expand Grainger’s leadership position in the MRO space by being the go-to-partner for people who build and run safe and productive operations. To achieve this, each Grainger business has a set of strategic objectives focused on top line growth through market share gain. The high-touch businesses are focused on growing through differentiated sales and services (e.g., direct customer relationships and onsite services), advantaged MRO solutions (e.g., get customers the exact products and services they need to solve a problem quickly) and unparalleled customer service (e.g., deliver flawlessly on every customer transaction). The endless assortment businesses are focused on product assortment expansion and innovative customer acquisition. Additionally, all Grainger businesses are focused on continuously improving customer experience, optimizing and scaling cost structures and investing in digital marketing, technology, and supply chain infrastructure to ultimately deliver long-term returns for shareholders. In March 2020, the World Health Organization characterized Coronavirus (COVID-19) as a pandemic. The rapid spread of the COVID-19 pandemic has caused significant disruptions in the U.S. and global markets, and economists expect the economic impact will continue to be significant. Grainger is an essential business and its major facilities have been allowed to remain operational during the pandemic as customers have depended on Grainger's products and services to keep their businesses up and running. In 2020, as the COVID-19 pandemic impacted global markets and the needs of customers, employees, suppliers and communities changed, the Company’s efforts and business plans evolved accordingly. Grainger is currently focused on serving customers and communities well through the pandemic and their respective recovery, supporting the needs and safety of employees and ensuring the Company continues to operate with a strong financial position. 24 Impact of the COVID-19 Pandemic on Grainger Businesses The COVID-19 pandemic has impacted and is likely to continue impacting Grainger’s businesses and operations as well as the operations of its customers and suppliers. From a customer perspective, business re-openings and related activity throughout the year varied based on geography, industry and COVID-19 pandemic conditions. For example, in the U.S. and endless assortment businesses, sales to government, healthcare and other essential businesses remained strong, but sales to non-essential and disrupted industries were depressed compared to pre-COVID-19 pandemic levels. The Canada business and other international high-touch businesses were severely impacted by pandemic-related slowdowns with each geography experiencing meaningful year-over-year declines. The Company's major operational facilities and infrastructure (i.e., DCs, branches, e-commerce sites, and logistic partners) remained operational during 2020 with limited disruptions, while adhering to strict safety and social-distancing protocols. From an inventory management and supply chain perspective, the Company has experienced elevated levels of demand for pandemic-related products, while demand for non-pandemic products has declined. To date, the Company has been able to absorb the pandemic impact with minimal workforce reductions or furloughs, which positions the Company for accelerated growth once post-pandemic recovery commences. Also, the Company has prioritized maintaining all facilities safe for customers and employees to work and interact. With respect to the Company’s financial position, the Company plans to maintain its focus on liquidity as pandemic-related uncertainties continue into 2021. During 2020, the Company generated operating cash of $1.1 billion and used the cash generated to invest in the business and return excess capital to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases. As of December 31, 2020, the Company had approximately $1.8 billion in available liquidity, including $585 million in cash. For further detail on cash flows refer to the Financial Condition section below. Matters Affecting Comparability There were 256 sales days in the full year 2020 versus 255 sales days in the full years 2019 and 2018. The Company completed two divestitures and commenced one liquidation in 2020. The Company's operating results have included the results of each business until its respective divestiture or liquidation date. In addition, starting in mid-February 2020, the Company began experiencing elevated levels of COVID-19 pandemic-related product sales (e.g., personal protective equipment (PPE) and safety products) due to higher customer demand in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, while non-pandemic sales have decreased. The incremental demand came primarily from customers on the front-lines of the pandemic, including government, healthcare and other essential businesses, while the demand from non-essential and disrupted industries decreased over the same period due to business activity slowdown or temporary shutdowns. Grainger experienced adverse gross margin impacts from sales of lower-margin COVID-19 pandemic-related products to the Company's largest, lowest margin customers. 25 Results of Operations The following table is included as an aid to understanding changes in Grainger's Consolidated Statements of Earnings (in millions of dollars): 2020 Compared to 2019 Grainger's net sales of $11,797 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 increased $311 million, or 2.7%, compared to the same period in 2019. On a daily basis, net sales increased 2.3%. The increase in net sales was primarily driven by volume/mix, partially offset by price/mix and the impact of business divestitures. During the year ended December 31, 2020, the Company experienced strong pandemic-related sales volume primarily in the U.S. to large government and healthcare customers. See Note 3 to the Financial Statements for information related to disaggregated revenue. This pandemic-related elevated volume was partially offset by volume declines of non-pandemic related products across most industries. Also, sales in the Canada business and other international high-touch businesses are down compared to 2019 due to COVID-19 business slowdowns. Overall, business activity still trails pre-pandemic levels as some customers remain disrupted by COVID-19. See Note 15 to the Financial Statements and refer to the Segment Analysis below for further details. Gross profit of $4,238 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 decreased $159 million, or 4% compared with the same period in 2019. The gross profit margin of 35.9% decreased 2.4 percentage points when compared to the same period in 2019. This decrease was primarily driven by lower margins from COVID-19 pandemic-related products sales in the U.S. and business unit mix impact from higher growth in the lower margin endless assortment businesses. See Segment Analysis below for further details related to segment gross profit. 26 The following tables (in millions of dollars) reconcile reported SG&A, operating earnings and net earnings attributable to W.W. Grainger, Inc. determined in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) in the United States of America to adjusted SG&A, operating earnings and net earnings attributable to W.W. Grainger, Inc., which are all considered non-GAAP measures. The Company believes that these non-GAAP measures provide meaningful information to assist shareholders in understanding financial results and assessing prospects for future performance as they provide a better baseline for analyzing the ongoing performance of its businesses by excluding items that may not be indicative of core operating results. Because non-GAAP financial measures are not standardized, it may not be possible to compare these measures with other companies' non-GAAP measures having the same or similar names. These non-GAAP measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for reported results. These non-GAAP measures reflect an additional way of viewing aspects of operations that, when viewed with GAAP results, provide a more complete understanding of the business. SG&A of $3,219 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 increased $84 million, or 3% compared to $3,135 million in the same period in 2019. During the first quarter of 2020, the Company recorded a $177 million write-down of goodwill, intangibles and long-lived assets from the Fabory business and during the second quarter of 2020, the Company recorded a $109 million pretax loss from the sale of the Fabory business which was the largest contributor to the decline in reported operating earnings. Excluding restructuring, net, impairment charges and business divestitures in both periods as noted in the table above, SG&A decreased $98 million or 3%. 27 Operating earnings of $1,019 million in 2020 decreased $243 million, or 19% compared to $1,262 million in the same period in 2019. Excluding restructuring, net, impairment charges and business divestitures in both periods as noted in the table above, operating earnings decreased $61 million, or 4%, driven by lower gross profit dollars partially offset by lower SG&A. Other expense, net of $72 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, increased $19 million, or 35% compared to the same period in 2019. The increase was primarily from the costs related to an increase in indebtedness during the year. Income taxes of $192 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 decreased $122 million, or 39% compared to $314 million for the same period in 2019. This decrease was primarily driven by lower taxable operating earnings for the year, tax losses from the Company's investment in Fabory due to the impairment and internal reorganization of the Company's holdings in Fabory in the first quarter of 2020 and tax impacts of the Fabory divestiture. Grainger's effective tax rates were 20.3% and 26.0% for the twelve months ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, and this decrease is primarily due to the Fabory tax impacts. Net earnings attributable to W.W. Grainger, Inc. for the year ended December 31, 2020 decreased $154 million, or 18% to $695 million from $849 million in the same period in 2019. Excluding restructuring, net, impairment charges and business divestitures and income taxes from both periods as noted in the table above, net earnings decreased $81 million, or 8%. The decrease in net earnings primarily resulted from lower gross profit dollars partially offset by lower SG&A. Diluted earnings per share was $12.82 for the year ended December 31, 2020 and decreased 16% compared to $15.32 for the same period in 2019, due to lower net earnings. Excluding restructuring, net, impairment charges and business divestitures and income taxes from both periods as noted in the table above, diluted earnings per share would have been $16.18 compared to $17.29 in 2019, an decrease of 6%. 2019 Compared to 2018 For the full year 2018 to 2019 comparative discussion, see Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Results of Operations in Grainger’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019. Segment Analysis - 2020 Compared to 2019 The following comments at the reportable segment and other business unit level include external and intersegment net sales and operating earnings. See Note 15 to the Financial Statements. United States Net sales were $9,070 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, an increase of $255 million, or 2.9%, compared with net sales of $8,815 million for 2019. On a daily basis, net sales increased 2.5% and consisted of the following: Overall, revenue increases for the U.S. business were primarily driven by COVID-19 pandemic-related sales, which accounted for the majority of the sales growth beginning in mid-February 2020. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, the U.S. business experienced strong sales volume of pandemic-related products primarily from large government and healthcare customers; however, sales to non-essential and disrupted industries are down compared to 2019. See Note 3 to the Financial Statements for information related to disaggregated revenue. From a product perspective, the U.S. business experienced strong demand for COVID-19 pandemic-related products; however, this elevated demand was partially offset by lower demand of non-pandemic products. Gross profit margin decreased 2.5 percentage points compared to the same period in 2019. The decrease was the result of pandemic related headwinds, including product, customer mix and inventory write-downs to reflect current 28 market dynamics. The Company expects these pandemic related decreases to subdue as the economy recovers and shifts back towards non-pandemic products, which should normalize product mix and margins back to pre-COVID-19 levels. SG&A for the year ended December 31, 2020 decreased 2% compared to the same period in 2019, which is primarily driven by reduced travel and depreciation expenses partially offset by incremental operating costs to support the U.S. business response to the COVID-19 pandemic and related activities. Operating earnings of $1,299 million decreased $92 million, or 7% from $1,391 million in the same period of 2019. This decrease was driven primarily by lower gross profit dollars. Canada Net sales were $476 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, a decrease of $53 million, or 9.9% when compared with $529 million for 2019. On a daily basis, net sales decreased 10.3% and consisted of the following: For the year ended December 31, 2020, volume decreased by 8.4 percentage points compared to the same period in 2019 primarily due to market declines partially offset by COVID-19 pandemic-related product sales. During the first half of 2020, global oil prices declined sharply as a result of market forces. More than a fifth of sales for the Canada business are derived from the oil industry or ancillary segments. This current low oil price environment could further reduce demand for the business, which is already negatively impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. Gross profit margin decreased 2.9 percentage points in 2020 compared to the same period in 2019 primarily due to negative price cost spread and COVID-19 pandemic-related mix impact. SG&A decreased $13 million, or 7% in 2020 compared to the same period in 2019. Excluding restructuring, net in both periods as noted in the table above, SG&A would have decreased $25 million, or 14% compared to the prior period. This decrease was primarily due to lower variable costs from lower sales and cost management actions to improve SG&A leverage. Operating losses were $16 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to earnings of $3 million in the same period in 2019. Excluding restructuring, net in both periods as noted in the table above, operating losses would have been $4 million compared to operating earnings of $3 million in the prior period primarily due to lower sales volume. Other Businesses Net sales for other businesses were $2,762 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, an increase of $111 million, or 4.2%, when compared to the same period in 2019. The net sales increase was primarily due to incremental sales within the endless assortment businesses. On a daily basis, net sales increased 3.8% and consisted of the following: The increase in net sales was driven by the endless assortment businesses, partially offset by lower performance in other international high-touch businesses, which were heavily impacted by pandemic-related slowdowns and the net 29 impact of Fabory and China business divestitures. The endless assortment businesses benefited from COVID-19 pandemic-related sales and continued to see strong new customer acquisition during the year. Gross profit margin decreased 1.4 percentage points compared to the same period in 2019, driven by business unit mix due to the Fabory divestiture, lower margins in the Cromwell business and unfavorable mix from the faster growing endless assortment businesses. SG&A increased $9 million, or 1% in 2020 compared with the same period in 2019. Excluding restructuring, net, impairment charges and business divestitures in both periods as noted in the table above, SG&A would have decreased $48 million or 7%. This decrease is primarily due to significant SG&A leverage in the Company's endless assortment businesses and lower expenses as a result of the Fabory divestiture. Operating losses for other businesses were $24 million for the year ended December 31, 2020, a decrease of $15 million, or 166% compared to operating losses of $9 million for 2019. Excluding restructuring, net, impairment charges and business divestitures in both periods as noted in the table above, operating earnings would have increased $42 million, or 38%. This increase is primarily due to higher earnings in the endless assortment businesses resulting from strong revenue growth and SG&A leverage. 2019 Compared to 2018 For the full year 2018 to 2019 comparative discussion, see Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Segment Analysis - 2019 Compared to 2018 in Grainger’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019. Financial Condition Grainger believes that, assuming its operations are not significantly impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic for a prolonged period, its current level of cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and availability under its revolving credit facilities will be sufficient to meet its liquidity needs. Grainger expects to continue to invest in its business and return excess cash to shareholders through cash dividends and share repurchases, which it plans to fund through total available liquidity and cash flows generated from operations. Grainger also maintains access to capital markets and may issue debt or equity securities from time to time, which may provide an additional source of liquidity. For the full year 2018 discussion, see Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Financial Condition in Grainger’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019. Cash and Cash Equivalents At December 31, 2020 and 2019, Grainger had cash and cash equivalents of $585 million and $360 million, respectively. This increase in cash is primarily due to cash flows from operations, delayed capital investments and temporarily reduced share repurchase program. Approximately 54% and 69% of cash and cash equivalents were outside the U.S. as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Grainger has no material limits or restrictions on its ability to use these foreign liquid assets. Cash Flows 2020 Compared to 2019 Net cash provided by operating activities was $1,123 million and $1,042 million for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The increase in cash provided by operating activities is primarily the result of lower net payments related to employee variable compensation and benefits paid under annual incentive plans and lower tax payments, partially offset by investments in working capital. Net cash used in investing activities was $179 million and $202 million for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. This decrease in net cash used in investing activities was primarily driven by lower additions to property, buildings and equipment and intangibles. 30 Net cash used in financing activities was $726 million and $1,023 million in the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The decrease in net cash used in financing activities was primarily driven by increased borrowings of long term debt and lower treasury stock repurchases. Working Capital Internally generated funds are the primary source of working capital and growth initiatives including capital expenditures. Grainger's working capital is not impacted by significant seasonality trends throughout the year. Working capital consists of current assets (less non-operating cash) and current liabilities (less short-term debt, current maturities of long-term debt and lease liabilities). Working capital was $2,220 million at December 31, 2020, compared with $2,092 million at December 31, 2019 primarily due to an increase in operating cash, accounts receivable and inventory, partially offset by increases in trade accounts payable. At these dates, the ratio of current assets to current liabilities was 2.6 for both years. Capital Expenditures In each of the past two years, a portion of the Company's net cash flows has been used for additions to property, buildings, equipment and capitalized software as summarized in the following table (in millions of dollars): In both 2020 and 2019, the Company invested in its North American and Japanese distribution networks (construction of new DCs as well as machinery and equipment to further automate the distribution process). In addition, the Company invested in the development of inventory management and software solutions. Projected spending for 2021 is expected to be approximately $250 million which includes continued investments in its supply chain, software development and inventory management solutions. Grainger expects to fund 2021 capital spending primarily from operating cash flows. Debt Grainger maintains a debt ratio and liquidity position that provides flexibility in funding working capital needs and long-term cash requirements. In addition to internally generated funds, Grainger has various sources of financing available, including bank borrowings under lines of credit. Total debt, which is defined as total interest-bearing debt (short-term current and long-term) and lease liabilities as a percent of total capitalization, was 55.6% and 54.3%, as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Grainger receives ratings from two independent credit ratings agencies: Moody's Investor Service (Moody's) and Standard & Poor's (S&P). Both credit rating agencies currently rate the Company's corporate credit at investment grade. The following table summarizes the Company's credit ratings at December 31, 2020: 31 Commitments and Other Contractual Obligations At December 31, 2020 Grainger's contractual obligations, including estimated payments due by period, are as follows (in millions of dollars): See Notes 6, 7 and 9 to the Financial Statements for further detail related to debt, interest on debt and operating lease obligations. Purchase obligations are made in the normal course of business to meet operating needs. While purchase orders for both inventory purchases and non-inventory purchases are generally cancellable without penalty, certain vendor agreements provide for cancellation fees or penalties depending on the terms of the contract. Other liabilities represent future payments for profit sharing and other employee benefit plans. Grainger has recorded a noncurrent liability of approximately $42 million for tax uncertainties and interest at December 31, 2020. This amount is excluded from the table above, as Grainger is unable to reasonably estimate the period of cash settlement with the respective taxing authorities on such items. See Note 14 to the Financial Statements. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Grainger does not have any material off-balance sheet arrangements. Critical Accounting Estimates The methods, assumptions, and estimates that used in applying the Company’s accounting policies may require the application of judgments regarding matters that are inherently uncertain. The Company considers an accounting policy to be a critical estimate if: (1) it involves assumptions that are uncertain when judgment was applied, and (2) changes in the estimate assumptions, or selection of a different estimate methodology could have a significant impact on Grainger’s consolidated financial position and results. While the Company believes that estimates, assumptions, and judgments used are reasonable, they are based on information available when the estimate was made. See Note 1 to the Financial Statements for further information on the Company’s critical accounting estimates, which are as follows: Contingencies: the estimation of when a contingent loss is probable and reasonably estimable; Goodwill and Intangible Assets Impairment: the valuation methods and assumptions used in assessing the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets; and Inventory: inventory reflected at the lower of cost or net realizable value considering future demand, market conditions and liquidation values. 32 Forward-Looking Statements From time to time, in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, as well as in other written reports, communications and verbal statements, Grainger makes forward-looking statements that are not historical in nature but concern forecasts of future results, business plans, analyses, prospects, strategies, objectives and other matters that may be deemed to be “forward-looking statements” under the federal securities laws. Forward-looking statements can generally be identified by their use of terms such as “anticipate,” “estimate,” “believe,” “expect,” “could,” “forecast,” “may,” “intend,” “plan,” “predict,” “project,” “will” or “would” and similar terms and phrases, including references to assumptions. Grainger cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized and achievement of future results is subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond the Company's control, which could cause Grainger's results to differ materially from those that are presented. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those presented or implied in the forward-looking statements include, without limitation: the unknown duration and health, economic, operational and financial impacts of the global outbreak of the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) as well as the duration, extent and impact of the actions taken or contemplated by governmental authorities or others in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic on the Company’s businesses, its employees, customers and suppliers, including disruption to Grainger's operations resulting from employee illnesses, the development and availability of effective treatment or vaccines, any mandated facility closures of non-essential businesses, stay in shelter health orders or other similar restrictions for customers and suppliers, changes in customers' product needs, suppliers' inability to meet unprecedented demand for COVID-19 related products, inventory shortages, the potential for government action to allocate or direct products to certain customers which may cause disruption in relationships with other customers, disruption caused by business responses to the COVID-19 pandemic, including working remote arrangements, which may create increased vulnerability to cybersecurity incidents, including breaches of information systems security, adaptions to the Company's controls and procedures required by working remote arrangements, including financial reporting processes, which could impact the design or operating effectiveness of such controls or procedures, and global or regional economic downturns or recessions, which could result in a decline in demand for the Company's products or limit the Company's ability to access capital markets on terms that are attractive or at all; higher product costs or other expenses; a major loss of customers; loss or disruption of sources of supply; changes in customer or product mix; increased competitive pricing pressures; failure to develop or implement new technology initiatives or business strategies; failure to adequately protect intellectual property or successfully defend against infringement claims; fluctuations or declines in the Company's gross profit percentage; the Company's responses to market pressures; the outcome of pending and future litigation or governmental or regulatory proceedings, including with respect to wage and hour, anti-bribery and corruption, environmental, advertising, consumer protection, pricing (including disaster or emergency declaration pricing statutes), product liability, general commercial disputes, safety or compliance, or privacy and cybersecurity matters; investigations, inquiries, audits and changes in laws and regulations; failure to comply with laws, regulations and standards; government contract matters; disruption of information technology or data security systems involving the Company or third parties on which the Company depends; general industry, economic, market or political conditions; general global economic conditions including tariffs and trade issues and policies; currency exchange rate fluctuations; market volatility, including price and trading volume volatility or price declines of the Company's common stock; commodity price volatility; labor shortages; facilities disruptions or shutdowns; higher fuel costs or disruptions in transportation services; other pandemic diseases or viral contagions; natural or human induced disasters, extreme weather and other catastrophes or conditions; failure to attract, retain, train, motivate, develop and transition key employees; loss of key members of management or key employees; changes in effective tax rates; changes in credit ratings or outlook; the Company's incurrence of indebtedness and other factors identified under Part II, Item 1A: “Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Caution should be taken not to place undue reliance on Grainger's forward-looking statements and Grainger undertakes no obligation to update or revise any of its forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law. 33