********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Item 1(a). Risk Factors. When considering an investment in Halliburton Company, all of the risk factors described below and other information included and incorporated by reference in this annual report should be carefully considered. Any of these risk factors could have a significant or material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Industry Environment Related Trends in oil and natural gas prices affect the level of exploration, development, and production activity of our customers and the demand for our services and products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition. Demand for our services and products is particularly sensitive to the level of exploration, development, and production activity of, and the corresponding capital spending by, oil and natural gas companies. The level of exploration, development, and production activity is directly affected by trends in oil and natural gas prices, which historically have been volatile and are likely to continue to be volatile. Prices for oil and natural gas are subject to large fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, market uncertainty, and a variety of other economic factors that are beyond our control. Given the long-term nature of many large-scale development projects, even the perception of longer-term lower oil and natural gas prices by oil and natural gas companies can cause them to reduce or defer major expenditures. Any prolonged reductions of commodity prices or expectations of such reductions could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition. Factors affecting the prices of oil and natural gas include: -    the level of supply and demand for oil and natural gas; -    the ability or willingness of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and the expanded alliance collectively known as OPEC+ to set and maintain oil production levels; -    the level of oil production in the U.S. and by other non-OPEC+ countries; -    oil refining capacity and shifts in end-customer preferences toward fuel efficiency and the use of natural gas; -    the cost of, and constraints associated with, producing and delivering oil and natural gas; -    governmental regulations and other actions, including economic sanctions and policies of governments regarding the exploration for and production and development of their oil and natural gas reserves; -    weather conditions, natural disasters, and health or similar issues, such as COVID-19 and other pandemics or epidemics; -    worldwide political and military actions, and economic conditions, including potential recessions; and -    increased demand for alternative energy and use of electric vehicles, increased emphasis on decarbonization (including government initiatives, such as tax credits and government subsidies to promote the use of renewable energy sources), and public sentiment around alternatives to oil and natural gas. HAL 2023 FORM 10-K | 9 Our business is dependent on capital spending by our customers, and reductions in capital spending could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition. Our business is directly affected by changes in capital expenditures by our customers, and reductions in their capital spending could reduce demand for our services and products and have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition. Some of the items that may impact our customers ’ capital spending include: -    oil and natural gas prices, which are impacted by the factors described in the preceding risk factor; -    the inability of our customers to access capital on economically advantageous terms, which may be impacted by, among other things, a decrease of investors ’ interest in hydrocarbon producers because of environmental and sustainability initiatives; -    changes in customers ’ capital allocation, including an increased allocation to the production of renewable energy or other sustainability efforts, leading to less focus on oil and natural gas production growth; -    restrictions on our customers ’ ability to get their produced oil and natural gas to market due to infrastructure limitations; -    consolidation of our customers; -    customer personnel changes; and -    adverse developments in the business or operations of our customers, including write-downs of oil and natural gas reserves and borrowing base reductions under customers ’ credit facilities. Liabilities arising out of our products and services could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition. Events can occur at sites where our products and equipment are produced, stored, transported, or installed, or where we conduct our operations or provide our services, or at chemical blending or manufacturing facilities, including well blowouts and equipment or materials failures, which could result in explosions, fires, personal injuries, property damage (including surface and subsurface damage), pollution, and potential legal responsibility. Generally, we rely on liability insurance coverage and on contractual indemnities, releases, and limitations of liability with our customers to protect us from potential liability related to such occurrences. However, we do not have these contractual provisions in all contracts, and even where we do, it is possible that the respective customer or insurer could seek to avoid or be financially unable to meet its obligations, or a court may decline to enforce such provisions. Damages that are not indemnified or released could greatly exceed available insurance coverage and could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by severe or unseasonable weather where we have operations. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by severe weather, particularly in Canada, the Gulf of Mexico, and the North Sea. Many experts believe global climate change could increase the frequency and severity of extreme weather conditions. Repercussions of severe or unseasonable weather conditions may include: -    evacuation of personnel and inoperability of equipment resulting in curtailment of services; -    weather-related damage to offshore drilling rigs resulting in suspension of operations; -    weather-related damage to our facilities and project work sites; -    inability to deliver materials to job sites in accordance with contract schedules; -    fluctuations in demand for oil and natural gas, including possible decreases during unseasonably warm winters; and -    loss of productivity. Our failure to protect our proprietary information and any successful intellectual property challenges or infringement proceedings against us could materially and adversely affect our competitive position. We rely on a variety of intellectual property rights that we use in our services and products. We may not be able to successfully preserve these intellectual property rights in the future, and these rights could be invalidated, circumvented, or challenged. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries in which our services and products may be sold do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Courts could find that others infringe our patent or other intellectual property rights or that our products and services may infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Our failure to protect our proprietary information and any successful intellectual property challenges or infringement proceedings against us could materially and adversely affect us. HAL 2023 FORM 10-K | 10 If we are not able to design, develop and produce commercially competitive products and to implement commercially competitive services in a timely manner in response to changes in the market, customer requirements, competitive pressures, developments associated with climate change concerns and energy mix transition, and technology trends, our business and consolidated results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, and the value of our intellectual property may be reduced. The market for our services and products is characterized by continual technological developments to provide better and more reliable performance and services. If we are not able to design, develop, and produce commercially competitive products and to implement commercially competitive services in a timely manner in response to changes in the market, customer requirements, competitive pressures, developments associated with climate change concerns and energy mix transition, and technology trends, our business and consolidated results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, and the value of our intellectual property may be reduced. Likewise, if our proprietary technologies, equipment, facilities, or work processes become obsolete, we may no longer be competitive, and our business and consolidated results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We sometimes provide integrated project management services in the form of long-term, fixed price contracts that may require us to assume additional risks associated with cost over-runs, operating cost inflation, labor availability and productivity, supplier and contractor pricing and performance, and potential claims for liquidated damages. We sometimes provide integrated project management services outside our normal discrete business in the form of long-term, fixed price contracts. Some of these contracts are required by our customers, primarily national oil companies. These services include acting as project managers as well as service providers and may require us to assume additional risks associated with cost over-runs. These customers may provide us with inaccurate or limited information, that may result in cost over-runs, delays, and project losses. In addition, our customers often operate in countries with unsettled political conditions, war, civil unrest, or other types of community issues. These issues may also result in cost over-runs, delays, and project losses. Providing services on an integrated basis may also require us to assume additional risks associated with operating cost inflation, labor availability and productivity, supplier pricing and performance, and potential claims for liquidated damages. We rely on third-party subcontractors and equipment providers to assist us with the completion of these types of contracts. To the extent that we cannot engage subcontractors or acquire equipment or materials in a timely manner and on reasonable terms, our ability to complete a project in accordance with stated deadlines or at a profit may be impaired. If the amount we are required to pay for these goods and services exceeds the amount we have estimated in bidding for fixed-price work, we could experience losses in the performance of these contracts. These delays and additional costs may be substantial, and we may be required to compensate our customers for these delays. This may reduce the profit to be realized or result in a loss on a project. Constraints in the supply of, prices for, and availability of transportation of raw materials and electric power could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated results of operations. Our business depends on the supply and availability of raw and essential materials. Raw materials essential to our operations and manufacturing, such as sand, chemicals, metals, gels, and electronic components (circuit boards), are normally readily available. Shortage of raw materials as a result of high levels of demand or loss of suppliers during market challenges can trigger constraints in the supply chain of those raw materials, particularly where we have a relationship with a single supplier for a particular resource. Many of the raw materials essential to our business require the use of rail, storage, and trucking services to transport the materials to our job sites. These services, particularly during times of high demand, may cause delays in the arrival of or otherwise constrain our supply of raw materials. In addition, as we increase the roll-out of our Zeus electric fracturing systems, we might face challenges to source sufficient electric power or there might not be adequate infrastructure to support the operation of our systems. These constraints on raw materials and electric power could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated results of operations. In addition, price increases imposed by our vendors for raw materials and transportation providers used in our business could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated results of operations if we are unable pass these increases through to our customers. Our ability to operate and our growth potential could be materially and adversely affected if we cannot attract, employ, and retain technical personnel at a competitive cost. Many of the services that we provide and the products that we sell are complex and highly engineered and often must perform or be performed in harsh conditions. We believe that our success depends upon our ability to attract, employ, and retain technical personnel with the ability to design, utilize, and enhance these services and products. A significant increase in the wages paid by competing employers could result in a reduction of our skilled labor force, increases in the wage rates that we must pay, or both. If either of these events were to occur, our cost structure could increase, our margins could decrease, and any growth potential could be impaired. HAL 2023 FORM 10-K | 11 Laws and Regulations Related Our operations outside the United States require us to comply with a number of United States and international regulations, violations of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition. Our operations outside the United States require us to comply with a number of United States and international regulations. For example, our operations in countries outside the United States are subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), which prohibits United States companies and their agents and employees from providing anything of value to a foreign official for the purposes of influencing any act or decision of these individuals in their official capacity to help obtain or retain business, direct business to any person or corporate entity, or obtain any unfair advantage. Our activities create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by our employees, agents, or joint venture partners that could be in violation of anti-corruption laws, even though some of these parties are not subject to our control. We have internal control policies and procedures and have implemented training and compliance programs for our employees and agents with respect to the FCPA. However, we cannot assure that our policies, procedures, and programs will always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. We are also subject to the risks that our employees, joint venture partners, and agents outside of the United States may fail to comply with other applicable laws. Allegations of violations of applicable anti-corruption laws have resulted and may in the future result in internal, independent, or government investigations. Violations of anti-corruption laws may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations and consolidated financial condition. In addition, the shipment of goods, services, and technology across international borders subjects us to extensive trade laws and regulations. Our import activities are governed by the unique customs laws and regulations in each of the countries where we operate. Moreover, many countries, including the United States, control the export, re-export, and in-country transfer of certain goods, services, and technology and impose related export recordkeeping and reporting obligations. Governments may also impose economic sanctions against certain countries, persons, and entities that may restrict or prohibit transactions involving such countries, persons, and entities, which may limit or prevent our conduct of business in certain jurisdictions. The imposition of such sanctions on Russia in connection with Russia’s invasion of Ukraine led to our decision to dispose of our Russian operations during the third quarter of 2022. The laws and regulations concerning import activity, export recordkeeping and reporting, export control and economic sanctions are complex and constantly changing. These laws and regulations can cause delays in shipments and unscheduled operational downtime. Moreover, any failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory trading obligations could result in government investigations of our activities, as well as criminal and civil penalties and sanctions, such as fines, imprisonment, debarment from governmental contracts, seizure of shipments, and loss of import and export privileges. Our activities outside of the United States expose us to various legal, social, economic, and political issues which could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations and consolidated financial condition. Changes in, compliance with, or our failure to comply with laws in the countries in which we conduct business may negatively impact our ability to provide services in, make sales to, and transfer personnel or equipment among some of those countries and could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated results of operations. In the countries in which we conduct business, we are subject to multiple and, at times, inconsistent regulatory regimes, including those that govern our use of radioactive materials, explosives, and chemicals in our operations. Various national and international regulatory regimes govern the shipment of these items. Many countries, but not all, impose special controls upon the export and import of radioactive materials, explosives, and chemicals. Our ability to do business is subject to maintaining required licenses and complying with these multiple regulatory requirements applicable to these special products. In addition, the various laws governing import and export of both products and technology apply to a wide range of services and products we offer. In turn, this can affect our employment practices of hiring people of different nationalities because these laws may prohibit or limit access to some products or technology by employees of various nationalities. Changes in, compliance with, or our failure to comply with these laws may negatively impact our ability to provide services in, make sales to, and transfer personnel or equipment among some of the countries in which we operate and could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated results of operations. HAL 2023 FORM 10-K | 12 The adoption of any future federal, state, or local laws or implementing regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting or banning, the hydraulic fracturing process could make it more difficult to complete natural gas and oil wells and could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition. Various federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives, as well as actions in other countries, have been or could be undertaken that could result in additional requirements or restrictions being imposed on hydraulic fracturing operations. For example, the United States may seek to adopt federal regulations or enact federal laws that would impose additional regulatory requirements on or even prohibit hydraulic fracturing in some areas. Legislation and/or regulations have been adopted by many states in the U.S. that require additional disclosure regarding chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process but that generally include protections for proprietary information. Legislation, regulations, and/or policies have also been adopted at the state level that impose other types of requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations (such as limits on operations in the event of certain levels of seismic activity). Additional legislation and/or regulations have been adopted or are being considered at the state and local level that could impose further chemical disclosure or other regulatory requirements (such as prohibitions on hydraulic fracturing operations in certain areas) that could affect our operations. Some states and some local jurisdictions have adopted ordinances that restrict or in certain cases prohibit the use of hydraulic fracturing, although many of these ordinances have been challenged and some have been overturned. In addition, governmental authorities in various foreign countries where we have provided or may provide hydraulic fracturing services have imposed or are considering imposing various restrictions or conditions that may affect hydraulic fracturing operations. The adoption of any future federal, state, local, or foreign laws or regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting or banning, the hydraulic fracturing process could make it more difficult to complete natural gas and oil wells and could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition. Liability for cleanup costs, natural resource damages and other damages arising as a result of environmental laws and regulations could be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition. We are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations in the United States and the other countries where we do business. We evaluate and address the environmental impact of our operations by assessing and remediating contaminated properties to avoid future liabilities and comply with legal and regulatory requirements. From time to time, claims have been made against us under environmental laws and regulations. In the United States, environmental laws and regulations typically impose strict liability. Strict liability means that in some situations we could be exposed to liability for cleanup costs, natural resource damages, and other damages as a result of our conduct that was lawful at the time it occurred or the conduct of prior operators or other third parties. We are periodically notified of potential liabilities at federal and state superfund sites. These potential liabilities may arise from both historical Halliburton operations and the historical operations of companies that we have acquired. Our exposure at these sites may be materially impacted by unforeseen adverse developments both in the final remediation costs and with respect to the final allocation among the various parties involved at the sites. The relevant regulatory agency may bring suit against us for amounts in excess of what we have accrued and what we believe is our proportionate share of remediation costs at any superfund site. We also could be subject to third-party claims, including punitive damages, with respect to environmental matters for which we have been named as a potentially responsible party. Liability for damages arising as a result of environmental laws or related third-party claims could be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition. HAL 2023 FORM 10-K | 13 Failure on our part to comply with, and the costs of compliance with, applicable health, safety, and environmental requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition. In addition to the numerous environmental laws and regulations that apply to our operations, we are subject to a variety of laws and regulations in the United States and other countries relating to health and safety. Among those laws and regulations are those covering hazardous materials and requiring emission performance standards for facilities. For example, our well service operations routinely involve the handling of significant amounts of waste materials, some of which are classified as hazardous substances. We also store, transport, and use radioactive and explosive materials in certain of our operations. Applicable regulatory requirements include those concerning: -    the containment and disposal of hazardous substances, oilfield waste, and other waste materials; -    the production, storage, transportation and use of chemicals; -    the production, storage, transportation and use of explosive materials; -    the importation and use of radioactive materials; -    the use of underground storage tanks; -    the use of underground injection wells; and -    the protection of worker safety both onshore and offshore. These and other requirements generally are becoming increasingly strict. The failure to comply with the requirements, many of which may be applied retroactively, may result in: -    administrative, civil, and criminal penalties; -    revocation of permits to conduct business; and -    corrective action orders, including orders to investigate and/or clean up contamination. Failure on our part to comply with applicable health, safety, and environmental laws and regulations or costs arising from regulatory compliance, including compliance with changes in or expansion of applicable regulatory requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition. Existing or future laws, regulations, treaties, or international agreements related to greenhouse gases, climate change, or alternative energy sources could have a negative impact on our business and may result in additional compliance obligations that could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition. Changes in or the adoption or enactment of laws, regulations, treaties or international agreements related to greenhouse gases, climate change, or alternative energy sources, including changes that may make it more expensive to explore for and produce oil and natural gas, may negatively impact demand for our services and products. For example, oil and natural gas exploration and production may decline as a result of environmental requirements, including land use policies responsive to environmental concerns. State, national, and international governments and agencies in areas in which we conduct business continue to evaluate, and in some instances adopt, climate-related legislation and other regulatory initiatives that would restrict emissions of greenhouse gases. For example, The President of the United States has issued Executive Orders and other directives seeking to adopt new regulations and policies to address climate change and to suspend, revise, or rescind prior agency actions that the administration identified as conflicting with its climate policies. These include Executive Orders requiring a review of current U.S. federal lands leasing and permitting practices, as well as a temporary halt of new leasing of U.S. federal lands and offshore waters available for oil and gas exploration. Also, in January 2024, the President of the United States paused approvals for pending and future applications to export liquified natural gas from new projects. During this pause, the Department of Energy will conduct a review of the economic and environmental impacts of projects seeking approval to export LNG to Europe and Asia. Changes and uncertainties resulting from proposed regulations and its actions with respect to leasing and other actions could have a negative effect on exploration and production of oil and natural gas and, consequently, negatively impact the demand for our products and services. HAL 2023 FORM 10-K | 14 In February 2021, the United States formally re-joined the Paris Agreement. The Paris Agreement requires countries to review and “represent a progression” in their intended nationally determined contributions, which set greenhouse gases emission reduction goals, every five years. The United States Environmental Protection Agency has proposed strict new methane emission regulations for certain oil and gas facilities. The Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 establishes a charge on methane emissions above certain limits from the same facilities. Though we are closely following developments in this area and changes in the regulatory landscape in the United States, we cannot predict how or when those changes may ultimately impact our business. Because our business depends on the level of activity in the oil and natural gas industry, existing or future laws, regulations, treaties, or international agreements related to greenhouse gases or climate change, including incentives to conserve energy or use alternative energy sources, may reduce demand for oil and natural gas and could have a negative impact on our business. Likewise, such restrictions may result in additional compliance obligations with respect to the release, capture, sequestration, and use of carbon dioxide. The efforts we have taken, and may undertake in the future, to respond to these evolving or new regulations and to environmental initiatives of customers, investors, and others may increase our costs. These and other environmental requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition. We could be subject to changes in our tax rates, the adoption of new tax legislation, tax audits, or exposure to additional tax liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition. We are subject to taxes in the U.S. and numerous jurisdictions where we operate and our subsidiaries are organized. Due to economic and political conditions, tax rates in the U.S. and other jurisdictions may be subject to significant change. Our tax returns are subject to examination by the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and other tax authorities and governmental bodies. We regularly assess the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for taxes. Our U.S. federal income tax filings for tax years 2016 through 2022 are currently under review or remain open for review by the IRS. As of December 31, 2023, the primary unresolved issue for the IRS audit for 2016 relates to the classification of the $3.5 billion ordinary deduction that we claimed for the termination fee we paid to Baker Hughes in the second quarter of 2016 for which we received a Notice of Proposed Adjustment (NOPA) from the IRS on September 28, 2023. In December 2023, we initiated the IRS administrative appeals process and we do not expect a final resolution of the NOPA in the next 12 months. There can be no assurance as to the outcome of the NOPA or other tax examinations and audits. Adverse outcomes resulting from examinations of our tax returns, including the NOPA, an increase in tax rates in a jurisdiction where we generate substantial income, particularly in the U.S., or changes in our ability to realize our deferred tax assets could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition. Our operations are subject to political and economic instability and risk of government actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition. We are exposed to risks inherent in doing business in each of the countries and regions in which we operate. Our operations are subject to various risks unique to each country and region that could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition. With respect to any particular country or region, these risks may include: -    political and economic instability, including: • civil unrest, acts of terrorism, war, and other armed conflict, such as the ongoing actions in Ukraine, Israel, and the broader Middle East; • inflation; and • currency fluctuations, devaluations, and conversion restrictions; and -    governmental actions that may: • result in expropriation and nationalization of our assets in that country; • result in confiscatory taxation or other adverse tax policies; • limit or disrupt markets or our customers and our operations, restrict payments, or limit the movement of funds; • impose sanctions on our ability to conduct business with certain customers or persons; • result in the deprivation of contract rights; and • result in the inability to obtain or retain licenses required for operation. HAL 2023 FORM 10-K | 15 For example, due to the unsettled political conditions in many oil-producing countries and regions, our operations, revenue, and profits are subject to the adverse consequences of war, terrorism, civil unrest, strikes, currency controls, and governmental actions. These, and other risks described above, could result in the loss of our personnel or assets, cause us to evacuate our personnel from certain countries, cause us to increase spending on security worldwide, cause us to cease operating in certain countries, cause disruption of shipping and supply chain operations, disrupt financial and commercial markets, including the supply of and pricing for oil and natural gas, and generate greater political and economic instability in some of the geographic areas in which we operate. Areas where we operate that have significant risk include, but are not limited to: the Middle East, North Africa, Angola, Argentina, Azerbaijan, Brazil, Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Mexico, Mozambique, Nigeria, Papua New Guinea, and Ukraine. In addition, any possible reprisals as a consequence of military or other action, such as acts of terrorism in the United States or elsewhere, could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition. General Risk Factors Our operations are subject to cyberattacks that could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition. We are increasingly dependent on digital technologies and services to conduct our business. We use these technologies for internal and operational purposes, including data storage, processing, and transmissions, as well as in our interactions with customers and suppliers. Examples of these digital technologies include analytics, automation, and cloud services. Our digital technologies and services, and those of our customers and suppliers, are subject to the risk of cybersecurity incidents and, given the nature of such incidents, some can remain undetected for a period of time despite efforts to detect and respond to them in a timely manner. We routinely monitor our systems for cybersecurity threats and have processes in place to detect and remediate vulnerabilities. Nevertheless, we have experienced occasional cybersecurity incidents and attempted breaches in the past, including attacks resulting from phishing emails and malware infections. We responded to and mitigated the impact of these attacks. Even if we successfully defend our own digital technologies and services, we also rely on our customers and suppliers, with whom we may share data and services, to protect their digital technologies and services from cybersecurity incidents. No unauthorized access to material financial, technical, or customer data occurred as a result of cybersecurity attacks against us and none of the attacks mentioned above had a material adverse effect on our business, operations, reputation, or consolidated results of operations or consolidated financial condition. If our systems, or our customers ’ or suppliers ’ systems, for protecting against cybersecurity incidents prove not to be sufficient, we could be adversely affected by, among other things: loss of or damage to intellectual property, proprietary or confidential information, or customer, supplier, or employee data; interruption of our business operations; and increased costs required to prevent, respond to, or mitigate cybersecurity incidents. These risks could harm our reputation and our relationships with our customers, employees, suppliers and other third parties, and may result in claims against us. In addition, laws and regulations governing cybersecurity incidents, data privacy, and the unauthorized disclosure of confidential or protected information pose increasingly complex compliance challenges, and failure to comply with these laws could result in penalties and legal liability. These risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations and consolidated financial condition. Our ability to declare and pay dividends and repurchase shares is subject to certain considerations and we may be unable to meet our capital return framework goal of returning at least 50% of annual free cash flow to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases, which could decrease expected returns on an investment in our stock. Our capital return framework includes a goal of returning at least 50% of annual free cash flow (cash flow from operations less capital expenditures plus proceeds from sales of property, plant, and equipment) to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. Dividends and share repurchases are authorized and determined by our Board of Directors at its sole discretion and depend upon a number of factors, including our financial results, cash requirements, and future prospects, as well as such other factors deemed relevant by our Board of Directors. We can provide no assurance that we will pay dividends or make share repurchases in accordance with our capital return framework goal or at all. Any elimination of, or downward revision in, our dividend payout or share repurchase program could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. HAL 2023 FORM 10-K | 16 Meeting our capital return framework goal requires us to generate consistent free cash flow and have available capital in the years ahead in an amount sufficient to enable us to continue investing in organic and inorganic growth as well as to return a significant portion of the cash generated to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases. Also, our cash flow fluctuates over the course of the year, so, although our goal is to return at least 50% of annual free cash flow to shareholders, that is an average over a year and the dividends paid, the number of shares repurchased, and the amount of free cash flow returned in any quarter during the year will vary and may be more or less than 50%. We may not meet this goal if we use our available cash to satisfy other priorities, if we have insufficient funds available to pay dividends and to repurchase shares, or if our Board of Directors determines to change or discontinue dividend payments or share repurchases. We are subject to foreign currency exchange risks and limitations on our ability to reinvest earnings from operations in one country to fund the capital needs of our operations in other countries or to repatriate assets from some countries. A sizable portion of our consolidated revenue and consolidated operating expenses is in foreign currencies. As a result, we are subject to significant risks, including: -    foreign currency exchange risks resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and the implementation of exchange controls; and -    limitations on our ability to reinvest earnings from operations in one country to fund the capital needs of our operations in other countries. As an example, we conduct business in countries that have restricted or limited trading markets for their local currencies and restrict or limit cash repatriation. We may accumulate cash in those geographies, but we may be limited in our ability to convert our profits into United States dollars or to repatriate the profits from those countries. During 2023, we experienced these conditions in Argentina and though we have been able to develop processes to repatriate cash when we believe it is appropriate to do so, we have incurred losses from devaluation of the local currency and from repatriating cash. We expect restrictions on currency repatriation to continue in Argentina during 2024. If we lose one or more of our significant customers or if our customers delay paying or fail to pay a significant amount of our outstanding receivables, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition. We have a number of significant customers. While no single customer represented more than 10% of consolidated revenue in any period presented, the loss of one or more significant customers could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated results of operations. In most cases, we bill our customers for our services in arrears and are, therefore, subject to our customers delaying or failing to pay our invoices. We may experience increased delays and failures due to, among other reasons, a reduction in our customers’ cash flow from operations and their access to the credit markets, particularly in weak economic or commodity price environments. If our customers delay paying or fail to pay us a significant amount of our outstanding receivables, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations and consolidated financial condition. Our acquisitions, dispositions and investments may not result in anticipated benefits and may present risks not originally contemplated, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition. We continually seek opportunities to maximize efficiency and value through various transactions, including purchases or sales of assets, businesses, investments, or joint venture interests. These transactions are intended to (but may not) result in the realization of savings, the creation of efficiencies, the offering of new products or services, the generation of cash or income, or the reduction of risk. Acquisition transactions may use cash on hand or be financed by additional borrowings or by the issuance of our common stock. These transactions may also adversely affect our business, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition. These transactions also involve risks, and we cannot ensure that: -    any acquisitions we attempt will be completed on the terms announced, or at all; -    any acquisitions would result in an increase in income or provide an adequate return of capital or other anticipated benefits; -    any acquisitions would be successfully integrated into our operations and internal controls; -    the due diligence conducted prior to an acquisition would uncover situations that could result in financial or legal exposure, including under the FCPA, or that we will appropriately quantify the exposure from known risks; -    any disposition would not result in decreased earnings, revenue, or cash flow; HAL 2023 FORM 10-K | 17 -    use of cash for acquisitions would not adversely affect our cash available for capital expenditures and other uses; or -    any dispositions, investments, or acquisitions, including integration efforts, would not divert management resources. Actions of and disputes with our joint venture partners could have a material adverse effect on the business and results of operations of our joint ventures and, in turn, our business and consolidated results of operations. We conduct some operations through joint ventures in which unaffiliated third parties may control the operations of the joint venture or we may share control. As with any joint venture arrangement, differences in views among the joint venture participants may result in delayed decisions, the joint venture operating in a manner that is contrary to our preference, or failures to agree on major issues. We also cannot control the actions of our joint venture partners, including any violation of law, nonperformance, or default by, or bankruptcy of our joint venture partners. These factors could have a material adverse effect on the business and results of operations of our joint ventures and, in turn, our business and consolidated results of operations. The loss or unavailability of any of our executive officers or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. We depend greatly on the efforts of our executive officers and other key employees to manage our operations. The loss or unavailability of any of our executive officers or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. HAL 2023 FORM 10-K | 18

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) should be read in conjunction with the consolidated and combined financial statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" contained herein. EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW Market conditions Since early 2020, world-wide oil and natural gas supply and demand imbalances and related volatility of oil and natural gas prices (including as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic) have resulted in dramatic fluctuations in oil and natural gas markets. The volatility continued in 2023 as markets were impacted by central bank rate hikes, macroeconomic uncertainty, non-OPEC supply growth, and renewed geopolitical unrest in the Middle East. In the U.S., oil and natural gas production in 2023 remained elevated, despite a generally declining rig count, as a result of the industry's focus on efficiencies, higher service intensity, and high-quality acreage. Lower commodity pricing and U.S. land rig counts generally contributed to softness in the market for energy products and services in North America, particularly in natural gas basins during the second half of 2023. Conversely, the international rig count showed steady growth in 2023 largely driven by national oil companies (NOCs) in the Middle East/Asia and Africa. Globally, we continue to be impacted by increased supply chain lead times for the supply of select raw materials. We monitor market trends and work to mitigate cost impacts through economies of scale in global procurement, technology modifications, and efficient sourcing practices. Also, while we have been impacted by inflationary cost increases, primarily related to chemicals, cement, and logistics costs, we generally try to pass much of those increases on to our customers and we believe we have effective solutions to minimize their operational impact. Financial results The following graph illustrates our revenue and operating margins for each operating segment over the past three years. During 2023, we generated total company revenue of $23.0 billion, a 13% increase from the $20.3 billion of revenue generated in 2022, with our Completion and Production (C&P) segment revenue increasing by 18% and our Drilling and Evaluation (D&E) segment revenue increasing by 7%. We reported total company operating income of approximately $4.1 billion in 2023, compared to operating income of $2.7 billion in 2022. These increases were driven by increased demand for our products and services in all four of our geographic regions. Our North America revenue increased 9% in 2023 compared to 2022, despite a 4% decrease in average rig count from 2022, resulting from higher pressure pumping and artificial lift activity in North America land, increased completion tool sales in the Gulf of Mexico, and improved fluid and wireline services across the region. Internationally, revenue improved 17% in 2023 compared to 2022, primarily driven by higher activity for drilling and completions related services in Latin America, Africa, and the Middle East/Asia, which was partially offset by our exit from Russia in the third quarter of 2022. The international average rig count for 2023 increased 11% compared to 2022. HAL 2023 FORM 10-K | 23 Our operating performance and liquidity are described in more detail in “Liquidity and Capital Resources” and “Business Environment and Results of Operations.” Sustainability and Energy Mix Transition In the first quarter of 2021, we announced our target to achieve a 40% reduction in our Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 2035 from the 2018 baseline. During 2023, we continued to execute on priorities we set up to help us progress toward our 2035 emissions reduction target. As our customers have begun to invest more in emissions reduction, we have developed or are developing solutions intended to reduce our own carbon footprint while advancing our customers’ decarbonization efforts. As the energy mix transition unfolds, we seek to apply our expertise and products and services across different parts of the energy value chain. We have also applied our experience and resources in sectors adjacent to our traditional oilfield services space, including carbon capture, utilization, and storage, hydrogen, and geothermal. Finally, we will continue to focus on accelerating the success of clean tech start-ups via Halliburton Labs. As of December 31, 2023, Halliburton Labs had 32 participating companies and alumni. Halliburton Labs allows us to participate in the energy mix transition at relatively low risk by investing our expertise, resources, and team without a significant outlay of capital. Our sustainability efforts were recognized in 2023 as we were named to the Dow Jones Sustainability North America Index for the third consecutive year. The DJSI assesses the sustainability performances of companies using a transparent, rules-based process based on the annual S&P Global Corporate Sustainability Assessment (CSA), among its industry peers. Additionally, we published our 2022 Annual and Sustainability Report (ASR) in April of 2023, which details our strategy and progress on sustainability issues, as well as our efforts on increased environmental reporting transparency, including conducting a climate-risk scenario analysis. Information on our website, including the ASR, is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. HAL 2023 FORM 10-K | 24 LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES We had $2.3 billion of cash and equivalents as of December 31, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively. Significant sources and uses of cash in 2023 Sources of cash: • Cash flows from operating activities were $3.5 billion. Working capital, which consists of r eceivables, inventories, and accounts payable, collectively had a negative impact of $511 million, primarily due to increased receivables and inventory. Uses of cash: • Capital expenditures were $1.4 billion. • We repurchased 22.7 million shares of our common stock for $800 million. • We paid $576 million of dividends to our shareholders. • We repurchased $300 million aggregate principal amounts of various series of our outstanding debt. Future sources and uses of cash We manufacture most of our own equipment, which provides us with some flexibility to increase or decrease our capital expenditures based on market conditions. We currently expect capital spending for 2024 to be approximately 6% of revenue. We believe this level of spend will allow us to invest in our key strategic technologies, including the construction and deployment of our Zeus electric fracturing systems in North America, our iStar Intelligent Drilling and Logging Platform, and our iCruise Intelligent Rotary Steerable System. We will continue to maintain capital discipline and monitor the rapidly changing market dynamics, and we may adjust our capital spend accordingly. In 2024, we expect to pay approximately $518 million for contractual purchase obligations (with another $211 million due through 2026), $397 million of interest on debt, and $391 million under our leasing arrangements. Payments for interest on our debt arrangements are expected to remain relatively flat for the foreseeable future. See Note 6 and Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on expected future payments under our leasing arrangements and debt maturities. We are not able to reasonably estimate the timing of cash outflows associated with our uncertain tax positions, in part because we are unable to predict the timing of potential tax settlements with applicable taxing authorities. As of December 31, 2023, we had $268 million of gross unrecognized tax benefits, excluding penalties and interest, of which we estimate $235 million may require us to make a cash payment. We estimate that approximately $158 million of the cash payment will not be settled within the next 12 months. While we maintain focus on liquidity and debt reduction, we are also focused on providing cash returns to our shareholders. In January of 2023, our Board approved a capital return framework with a goal of returning at least 50% of our annual free cash flow to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. We returned $1.4 billion of capital to shareholders in 2023 through buybacks and dividends. During 2023, our quarterly dividend rate was $0.16 per common share, or approximately $144 million in the aggregate. In January 2024, we announced that our Board of Directors declared a dividend of $0.17 per common share for the first quarter of 2024, or approximately $152 million in the aggregate. We may utilize share repurchases as part of our capital return framework. Our Board of Directors has authorized a program to repurchase our common stock from time to time. We repurchased 22.7 million shares of common stock during the year ended December 31, 2023. Approximately $4.1 billion remained authorized for repurchases under our program as of December 31, 2023 and may be used for open market and other share purchases. During the second quarter of 2023, we began our migration to SAP S4 which we expect to complete by the end of 2025. The migration is estimated to cost approximately $250 million, of which we have incurred $51 million through December 31, 2023. For 2024, we expect to spend approximately $120 million. We believe the new system will enhance visibility to our operations and provide important efficiency benefits, cost savings, and advanced analytics that will benefit us and our customers. We do not intend to incur additional debt in 2024, as we believe our cash on hand and earnings from operations are sufficient to cover our obligations for the year. HAL 2023 FORM 10-K | 25 Other factors affecting liquidity Financial position in current market. As of December 31, 2023, we had $2.3 billion of cash and equivalents and $3.5 billion of available committed bank credit under a revolving credit facility with an expiration date of April 27, 2027. We believe we have a manageable debt maturity profile, with approximately $472 million coming due beginning in 2025 through 2027. Furthermore, we have no financial covenants or material adverse change provisions in our bank agreements, and our debt maturities extend over a long period of time. We believe our cash on hand, cash flows generated from operations, and our available credit facility provide sufficient liquidity to address the challenges and opportunities of the current market and our expected global cash needs for 2024, including capital expenditures, working capital investments, shareholder returns, if any, and debt repurchases, if any, and scheduled interest and principal payments. Guarantee agreements. In the normal course of business, we have agreements with financial institutions under which approximately $2.6 billion letters of credit, bank guarantees, or surety bonds were outstanding as of December 31, 2023. Some of the outstanding letters of credit have triggering events that would entitle a bank to require cash collateralization, however, none of these triggering events have occurred. As of December 31, 2023, we had no material off-balance sheet liabilities and were not required to make any material cash distributions to our unconsolidated subsidiaries. During the fourth quarter of 2023, we entered into a credit default swap (“CDS”) with a third-party financial institution. The notional amount of the CDS, which was $300 million at the end of January 2024, will reduce on a monthly basis over its 26-month term. The CDS relates to a borrowing provided by the financial institution to one of our primary customers in Mexico, a portion of the proceeds of which was utilized by this customer to pay certain of our outstanding receivables. Credit ratings. Our credit ratings with Standard & Poor’s (S&P) remained BBB+ for our long-term debt and A-2 for our short-term debt, with an upgrade to positive outlook from stable outlook in November 2023. During the third quarter of 2023, our long-term debt rating with Moody's Investors Service (Moody's) was upgraded to A3 from Baa1 and the short-term debt rating remained P-2, with a stable outlook. As of the end of the year our long-term debt rating with Moody's remained A3 and short-term debt rating remained P-2, with a stable outlook. Customer receivables . In line with industry practice, we bill our customers for our services in arrears and are, therefore, subject to our customers delaying or failing to pay our invoices. In weak economic environments, we may experience increased delays and failures to pay our invoices due to, among other reasons, a reduction in our customers’ cash flow from operations and their access to the credit markets, as well as unsettled political conditions. Receivables from our primary customer in Mexico accounted for approximately 6% of our total receivables as of December 31, 2023. While we have experienced payment delays from our primary customer in Mexico, these amounts are not in dispute and we have not historically had, and we do not expect to have, any material write-offs due to collectability of receivables from this customer. HAL 2023 FORM 10-K | 26 BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS We operate in more than 70 countries throughout the world to provide a comprehensive range of services and products to the energy industry. Our revenue is generated from the sale of services and products to major, national, and independent oil and natural gas companies worldwide. The industry we serve is highly competitive with many substantial competitors in each segment of our business. In 2023, 2022, and 2021, based on the location of services provided and products sold, 44%, 45%, and 40%, respectively, of our consolidated revenue was from the United States. No other country accounted for more than 10% of our revenue. Activity within our business segments is significantly impacted by spending on upstream exploration, development, and production programs by our customers. Also impacting our activity is the status of the global economy, which impacts oil and natural gas consumption. Some of the more significant determinants of current and future spending levels of our customers are oil and natural gas prices and our customers' expectations about future prices, global oil supply and demand, completions intensity, the world economy, the availability of capital, government regulation, and global stability, which together drive worldwide drilling and completions activity. Lower oil and natural gas prices usually translate into lower exploration and production budgets and lower rig count, while the opposite is usually true for higher oil and natural gas prices. Our financial performance is therefore significantly affected by oil and natural gas prices and worldwide rig activity, which are summarized in the tables below. The table below shows the average prices for West Texas Intermediate (WTI) crude oil, United Kingdom Brent crude oil, and Henry Hub natural gas. The historical average rig counts based on the weekly Baker Hughes rig count data were as follows: HAL 2023 FORM 10-K | 27 Business outlook Looking ahead, we expect oil and natural gas demand to continue to grow over the next several years as easing inflationary pressures across the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) countries increase the likelihood for central bank rate cuts, abating fears of a macroeconomic slowdown. We believe long-term expansion of the global economy will continue to increase demands on all forms of energy. We expect oil and natural gas remains a critical component of the global energy mix. The International Energy Agency's December 2023 "Oil Market Report" forecasts 2024 global oil demand to reach 102.7 million barrels per day, an increase of 1% from 2023. We believe that oil demand growth will be driven by resilient global economic growth and increases in transportation activity. In addition, we think oil supply dynamics have fundamentally changed due to, among other things, investor return requirements, and regulatory initiatives adverse to oil and natural gas exploration and production and that promote alternative energy, any of which could limit supply growth. We believe that despite the changes in oil supply dynamics, increased investment in existing and new sources of production is the only solution to increase supply and that production will be needed from conventional and unconventional, deep-water and shallow-water, and short and long-cycle projects. We expect that increased production requirements will in turn create demand for our products and services. Internationally, we expect oil and natural gas exploration and production activity to grow during 2024. Although we anticipate regional differences in growth rates for 2024, we believe the Middle East/Asia regions will likely experience the greatest increases in activity, with other regions closely behind. We expect growth in both onshore and offshore markets, as well as services related to carbon capture, utilization, and storage. The “Short Term Energy Outlook” published by the United States Energy Information Administration (EIA) predicts that U.S. oil production will average 13.1 million barrels per day in 2024, an increase of 1% as compared to 2023. As a result, we expect stable exploration and production activity levels in the U.S. HAL 2023 FORM 10-K | 28 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS IN 2023 COMPARED TO 2022 Operating Segments Completion and Production Completion and Production revenue was $13.7 billion in 2023, an increase of $2.1 billion, or 18%, compared to 2022. Operating income was $2.8 billion in 2023, a 39% increase from $2.0 billion in 2022. These results were primarily driven by higher pressure pumping activity in North America land, as well as improved completion tool sales globally. Partially offsetting these increases was decreased activity in Russia due to our exit from the country. Drilling and Evaluation Drilling and Evaluation revenue was $9.3 billion in 2023, an increase of $614 million, or 7%, from 2022. Operating income was $1.5 billion in 2023, an increase of $251 million, or 19%, compared to 2022. These results were primarily attributable to increased fluid services and drilling activity globally and higher wireline activity in the Western Hemisphere, Africa, and the Middle East/Asia. Partially offsetting these increases were decreased activity in Russia due to our exit from the country and lower project management activity in Saudi Arabia. Geographic Regions North America North America revenue was $10.5 billion in 2023, a 9% increase compared to 2022, resulting from improved pressure pumping and artificial lift activity in North America land, increased fluid and wireline services across the region, and higher completion tool sales in the Gulf of Mexico. Partially offsetting these increases were lower drilling-related activity and decreased well intervention services in North America land. HAL 2023 FORM 10-K | 29 Latin America Latin America revenue was $4.0 billion in 2023, a 25% increase compared to 2022, resulting from improvements across multiple product service lines in Brazil, Mexico, and Argentina. Partly offsetting these increases was lower project management activity in the Caribbean, Ecuador, and Colombia. Europe/Africa/CIS Europe/Africa/CIS revenue was $2.9 billion in 2023, a 6% increase compared to 2022, resulting from increased activity across multiple product service lines in Africa and higher drilling-related services in Norway. Partially offsetting these increases were the sale of our Russian operations during the third quarter of 2022, as well as decreased wireline activity, lower completion tool sales and decreased testing services in Norway, and lower drilling-related activity and decreased testing services in Algeria. Middle East/Asia Middle East/Asia revenue was $5.7 billion in 2023, an 18% increase compared to 2022, resulting from increased activity across multiple product service lines in Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Indonesia, and Malaysia, and higher drilling services and improved wireline activity in Thailand. Partially offsetting these improvements were lower project management activity in Saudi Arabia and lower stimulation activity and decreased well intervention services in Kuwait. Other Operating Items Impairments and other charges. During 2023, there were no amounts recorded in impairment and other charges. During 2022, we recognized $366 million of charges, primarily related to a $344 million write down of all our net assets in Russia as a result of our decision to sell our Russia operations due to the sanctions enacted against Russia arising from the conflict in Ukraine. See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion on these charges. SAP S4 Upgrade Expense. As previously mentioned, in the second quarter of 2023 we began our migration to SAP S4, which we expect to complete by the end of 2025. In 2023, we recognized $51 million of expense on our SAP S4 migration. Nonoperating Items Argentina Blue Chip Swap . The Central Bank of Argentina maintains currency controls that limit our ability to access U.S. dollars in Argentina and remit cash from our Argentine operations. The execution of certain trades known as Blue Chip Swaps, effectively results in a parallel U.S. dollar exchange rate. This parallel rate, which cannot be used as the basis to remeasure our net monetary assets in U.S. dollars under U.S. GAAP, was 20% higher than Argentina's official exchange rate at December 31, 2023. For the year ended December 31, 2023, we entered into Blue Chip Swap transactions, which resulted in a $110 million pre-tax loss on investment. Argentina Currency Impact . Argentina devalued its peso by more than 50% during December 2023. Consequently, we incurred a loss of $131 million for the year ended December 31, 2023 due to the devaluation of the currency in Argentina. Loss on early extinguishment of debt. During the year ended December 31, 2022, we recorded a $42 million loss on the early redemption of $600 million aggregate principal amount of our 3.8% senior notes due November 2025, which included premiums and unamortized expenses. See Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. Income tax provision. During the year ended December 31, 2023, we recorded a total income tax provision of $701 million on pre-tax income of $3.4 billion, resulting in an effective tax rate of 20.8%. The effective tax rate for 2023 was primarily impacted by our geographic mix of earnings, tax adjustments related to the reassessment of prior year tax accruals, and changes of valuation allowance on some of our deferred tax assets. During 2022, we recorded a total income tax provision of $515 million on pre-tax income of $2.1 billion, resulting in an effective tax rate of 24.4%. See Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements for significant drivers of these tax provisions. HAL 2023 FORM 10-K | 30 Pillar Two. The OECD recently enacted model rules for a new global minimum tax framework, also known as Pillar Two, and certain governments globally have enacted, or are in the process of enacting, legislation considering these model rules. We have considered the possible implication of the legislation passed or in consideration of being passed, and we do not believe these rules will have a material impact on our taxes in the near future. Internal Revenue Service Notice of Proposed Adjustment. We are subject to taxes in the United States and in numerous jurisdictions where we operate or where our subsidiaries are organized. Our tax returns are routinely subject to examination by the taxing authorities in the jurisdictions where we file tax returns. In most cases we are no longer subject to examination by tax authorities for years before 2012. The only significant operating jurisdiction that has tax filings under review or subject to examination by the tax authorities is the United States. Our United States federal income tax filings for tax years 2016 through 2022, including carry back of 2016 net operating losses to 2014, are currently under review or remain open for review by the Internal Revenue Service (the IRS). On September 28, 2023, we received a Notice of Proposed Adjustment (NOPA) from the IRS covering our 2016 US tax return. The NOPA proposed an adjustment to reclassify approximately 95% of the $3.5 billion termination fee paid to Baker Hughes in 2016 from an ordinary expense deduction to a capital loss. The termination fee was paid to Baker Hughes under the merger agreement after antitrust regulators in multiple jurisdictions failed to approve our proposed merger. It is common commercial practice to include a termination fee in a merger agreement to compensate the target for damages incurred when the acquisition does not go forward. The IRS’s long-understood position at the time of the payment had been to treat such payments as an ordinary and necessary business expense. We strongly disagree with the proposed adjustment on both a factual and legal basis, and we plan to vigorously contest it. We expect that resolving this dispute will take substantial time. In December 2023, we initiated the IRS administrative appeals process, which may take more than 12 months to complete. Failing a resolution through that process, the matter would ultimately be resolved by the United States federal courts. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from tax examinations to determine the adequacy of our tax reserves, and we believe our income tax reserves are appropriately provided for all open tax years. We cannot assure you that the matter will be determined in our favor or against us, and if the matter is ultimately determined unfavorably to us, it could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and cash flows. Based on tax attributes currently available, we estimate that, should the IRS's position prevail through its appellate process and subsequent litigation, the proposed adjustment could result in cash taxes due of approximately $650 million (plus interest thereon in the case of amounts due for previous tax years). Our estimates are calculated under current tax law and on the bases of our assumptions regarding taxable income and loss and other tax attributes over the relevant period, which law could change and which assumptions could and likely will differ materially from actual results. In any event, no payment of any additional tax is currently required, nor do we anticipate that the proposed adjustment would materially and adversely impact our ability to meet our expected uses of cash, including future capital expenditures, working capital investments, and scheduled debt repayments, or our ability to return cash to shareholders, even if a final determination of the matter is reached that is adverse to us. HAL 2023 FORM 10-K | 31 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS IN 2022 COMPARED TO 2021 Information related to the comparison of our operating results between the years 2022 and 2021 is included in "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" of our filed with the SEC and is incorporated by reference into this annual report on Form 10-K. HAL 2023 FORM 10-K | 32 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES The preparation of financial statements requires the use of judgments and estimates. Our critical accounting policies are described below to provide a better understanding of how we develop our assumptions and judgments about future events and related estimates and how they can impact our financial statements. A critical accounting estimate is one that requires our most difficult, subjective, or complex judgments and assessments and is fundamental to our results of operations. We identified our most critical accounting estimates to be: -    forecasting our income tax (provision) benefit, including our future ability to utilize foreign tax credits and the realizability of deferred tax assets (including net operating loss carryforwards), and providing for uncertain tax positions; -    legal and investigation matters; -    valuations of long-lived assets, including intangible assets and goodwill; and -    allowance for credit losses. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions we believe to be reasonable according to the current facts and circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. We believe the following are the critical accounting policies used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements, as well as the significant estimates and judgments affecting the application of these policies. This discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this report. Income tax accounting We recognize the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year and use an asset and liability approach in recognizing the amount of deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our financial statements or tax returns. We apply the following basic principles in accounting for our income taxes: -    a current tax liability or asset is recognized for the estimated taxes payable or refundable on tax returns for the current year; -    a deferred tax liability or asset is recognized for the estimated future tax effects attributable to temporary differences and carryforwards; -    the measurement of current and deferred tax liabilities and assets is based on provisions of the enacted tax law, and the effects of potential future changes in tax laws or rates are not considered; and -    the value of deferred tax assets is reduced, if necessary, by the amount of any tax benefits that, based on available evidence, are not expected to be realized. We determine deferred taxes separately for each tax-paying component (an entity or a group of entities that is consolidated for tax purposes) in each tax jurisdiction. That determination includes the following procedures: -    identifying the types and amounts of existing temporary differences; -    measuring the total deferred tax liability for taxable temporary differences using the applicable tax rate; -    measuring the total deferred tax asset for deductible temporary differences and operating loss carryforwards using the applicable tax rate; -    measuring the deferred tax assets for each type of tax credit carryforward; and -    reducing the deferred tax assets by a valuation allowance if, based on available evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Our methodology for recording income taxes requires a significant amount of judgment and the use of assumptions and estimates. Additionally, we use forecasts of certain tax elements, such as taxable income and foreign tax credit utilization, as well as evaluate the feasibility of implementing tax planning strategies. Given the inherent uncertainty involved with the use of such variables, there can be significant variation between anticipated and actual results that could have a material impact on our income tax accounts related to continuing operations. HAL 2023 FORM 10-K | 33 We have operations in more than 70 countries. Consequently, we are subject to the jurisdiction of a significant number of taxing authorities. The income earned in these various jurisdictions is taxed on differing bases, including net income actually earned, net income deemed earned, and revenue-based tax withholding. Our tax filings are routinely examined in the normal course of business by tax authorities. The final determination of our income tax liabilities involves the interpretation of local tax laws, tax treaties and related authorities in each jurisdiction, as well as the significant use of estimates and assumptions regarding the scope of future operations and results achieved, the timing and nature of income earned and expenditures incurred. The final determination of tax audits or changes in the operating environment, including changes in tax law and currency/repatriation controls, could impact the determination of our income tax liabilities for a tax year and have an adverse effect on our financial statements. For example, we received a NOPA from the IRS on September 28, 2023. See "Managements's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Nonoperating Items, Internal Revenue Service Notice of Proposed Adjustment" and Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. Tax filings of our subsidiaries, unconsolidated affiliates and related entities are routinely examined in the normal course of business by tax authorities. These examinations may result in assessments of additional taxes, which we work to resolve with the tax authorities and through the judicial process. Predicting the outcome of disputed assessments involves some uncertainty. Factors such as the availability of settlement procedures, willingness of tax authorities to negotiate, and the operation and impartiality of judicial systems vary across the different tax jurisdictions and may significantly influence the ultimate outcome. We review the facts for each assessment, and then utilize assumptions and estimates to determine the most likely outcome and provide taxes, interest, and penalties, as needed based on this outcome. We provide for uncertain tax positions pursuant to current accounting standards, which prescribe a minimum recognition threshold and measurement methodology that a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return is required to meet before being recognized in the financial statements. The standards also provide guidance for derecognition classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure, and transition. Legal and investigation matters As discussed in Note 11 of our consolidated financial statements, we are subject to various legal and investigation matters arising in the ordinary course of business. As of December 31, 2023, we have accrued an estimate of the probable and estimable costs for the resolution of some of our legal and investigation matters, which is not material to our consolidated financial statements. For other matters for which the liability is not probable and reasonably estimable, we have not accrued any amounts. Attorneys in our legal department monitor and manage all claims filed against us and review all pending investigations. Generally, the estimate of probable costs related to these matters is developed in consultation with internal and outside legal counsel representing us. Our estimates are based upon an analysis of potential results, assuming a combination of litigation and settlement strategies. The accuracy of these estimates is impacted by, among other things, the complexity of the issues and the amount of due diligence we have been able to perform. We attempt to resolve these matters through settlements, mediation, and arbitration proceedings when possible. If the actual settlement costs, final judgments, or fines, after appeals, differ from our estimates, there may be a material adverse effect on our future financial results. We have in the past recorded significant adjustments to our initial estimates of these types of contingencies. Value of long-lived assets, including intangible assets and goodwill We carry a variety of long-lived assets on our balance sheet including property, plant, and equipment, goodwill, and other intangibles. Impairment is the condition that exists when the carrying amount of a long-lived asset exceeds its fair value, and any impairment charge that we record reduces our operating income. Goodwill is the excess of the cost of an acquired entity over the net of the amounts assigned to assets acquired and liabilities assumed. We conduct impairment tests on goodwill annually, during the third quarter, or more frequently whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate an impairment may exist. We conduct impairment tests on long-lived assets, other than goodwill, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. When conducting an impairment test on long-lived assets, other than goodwill, we first group individual assets based on the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows from other assets. This requires some judgment. We then compare estimated future undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset group to its carrying amount. If the undiscounted cash flows are less than the asset group’s carrying amount, we then determine the asset group's fair value by using a discounted cash flow analysis. This analysis is based on estimates such as management’s short-term and long-term forecast of operating performance, including revenue growth rates and expected profitability margins, estimates of the remaining useful life and service potential of the assets within the asset group, and a discount rate based on our weighted average cost of capital. An impairment loss is measured and recorded as the amount by which the asset group's carrying amount exceeds its fair value. See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of impairments and other charges. HAL 2023 FORM 10-K | 34 We perform our goodwill impairment assessment for each reporting unit, which is the same as our reportable segments, the Completion and Production division and the Drilling and Evaluation division, comparing the estimated fair value of each reporting unit to the reporting unit’s carrying value, including goodwill. We estimate the fair value for each reporting unit using a discounted cash flow analysis based on management’s short-term and long-term forecast of operating performance. This analysis includes significant assumptions regarding discount rates, revenue growth rates, expected profitability margins, forecasted capital expenditures, and the timing of expected future cash flows based on market conditions. If the estimated fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is not considered impaired. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, an impairment loss is measured and recorded. The impairment assessments discussed above incorporate inherent uncertainties, including projected commodity pricing, supply and demand for our services, and future market conditions, which are difficult to predict in volatile economic environments and could result in impairment charges in future periods if actual results materially differ from the estimated assumptions utilized in our forecasts. If market conditions deteriorate, including crude oil prices significantly declining and remaining at low levels for a sustained period of time, we could be required to record additional impairments of the carrying value of our long-lived assets in the future which could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. See Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements for our accounting policies related to long-lived assets. Allowance for credit losses We evaluate our global accounts receivable through a continuous process of assessing our portfolio on an individual customer and overall basis. This process consists of a thorough review of historical collection experience, current aging status of the customer accounts, financial condition of our customers, and whether the receivables involve retainages. We also consider the economic environment of our customers, both from a marketplace and geographic perspective, in evaluating the need for an allowance. Based on our review of these factors, we establish or adjust allowances for specific customers. This process involves judgment and estimation, and frequently involves significant dollar amounts. Accordingly, our results of operations can be affected by adjustments to the allowance due to actual write-offs that differ from estimated amounts. At December 31, 2023, our allowance for credit losses totaled $ 742 million, or 13.9% of notes and accounts receivable before the allowance. At December 31, 2022, our allowance for credit losses totaled $ 731 million, or 14.7% of notes and accounts receivable before the allowance. The allowance for credit losses in both years is primarily comprised of accounts receivable from our primary customer in Venezuela. A hypothetical 100 basis point change in our estimate of the collectability of our notes and accounts receivable balance as of December 31, 2023 would have resulted in a $54 million adjustment to 2023 total operating costs and expenses. See Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENT MARKET RISK We are exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. We selectively manage these exposures through the use of derivative instruments, including forward foreign exchange contracts, foreign exchange options, and interest rate swaps. The objective of our risk management strategy is to minimize the volatility from fluctuations in foreign currency and interest rates. We do not use derivative instruments for trading purposes. The counterparties to our forward contracts, options, and interest rate swaps are global commercial and investment banks. We use a sensitivity analysis model to measure the impact of potential adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. With respect to foreign exchange sensitivity, after consideration of the impact from our forward foreign exchange contracts and options, a hypothetical 10% adverse change in the value of all our foreign currency positions relative to the United States dollar as of December 31, 2023 would result in a $85 million, pre-tax loss for our net monetary assets denominated in currencies other than United States dollars. As of December 31, 2023, we did not have any interest rate swaps outstanding and our outstanding debt has fixed interest rates. There are certain limitations inherent in the sensitivity analysis presented, primarily due to the assumption that exchange rates and interest rates change instantaneously in an equally adverse fashion. In addition, the analyses are unable to reflect the complex market reactions that normally would arise from the market shifts modeled. While this is our best estimate of the impact of the various scenarios, these estimates should not be viewed as forecasts. For further information regarding foreign currency exchange risk, interest rate risk, and credit risk, see Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements. HAL 2023 FORM 10-K | 35 ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS We are subject to numerous environmental, legal, and regulatory requirements related to our operations worldwide. For information related to environmental matters, see Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements and "Part I, Item 1(a). “Risk Factors.” FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides safe harbor provisions for forward-looking information. Forward-looking information is based on projections and estimates, not historical information. Some statements in this Form 10-K are forward-looking and use words like “may,” “may not,” “believe,” “do not believe,” “plan,” “estimate,” “intend,” “expect,” “do not expect,” “anticipate,” “do not anticipate,” “should,” “likely,” and other expressions. We may also provide oral or written forward-looking information in our statements and other materials we release to the public. Forward-looking information involves risk and uncertainties and reflects our best judgment based on current information. Our results of operations can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. In addition, other factors may affect the accuracy of our forward-looking information. As a result, no forward-looking information can be guaranteed. Actual events and the results of our operations may vary materially. We do not assume any responsibility to publicly update any of our forward-looking statements regardless of whether factors change as a result of new information, future events or for any other reason. You should review any additional disclosures we make in our press releases and Forms 10-K, 10-Q, and 8-K filed with or furnished to the SEC. We also suggest that you listen to our quarterly earnings release conference calls with financial analysts. HAL 2023 FORM 10-K | 36