********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Item 1(a). Risk Factors. When considering an investment in Halliburton Company, all of the risk factors described below and other information included and incorporated by reference in this annual report should be carefully considered. Any of these risk factors could have a significant or material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Industry Environment Related Trends in oil and natural gas prices affect the level of exploration, development, and production activity of our customers and the demand for our services and products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition. Demand for our services and products is particularly sensitive to the level of exploration, development, and production activity of, and the corresponding capital spending by, oil and natural gas companies. The level of exploration, development, and production activity is directly affected by trends in oil and natural gas prices, which historically have been volatile and are likely to continue to be volatile. Prices for oil and natural gas are subject to large fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for oil and natural gas, market uncertainty, and a variety of other economic factors that are beyond our control. Given the long-term nature of many large-scale development projects, even the perception of longer-term lower oil and natural gas prices by oil and natural gas companies can cause them to reduce or defer major expenditures. Any prolonged reductions of commodity prices or expectations of such reductions could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition, and could result in asset impairments and severance costs. Factors affecting the prices of oil and natural gas include: -    the level of supply and demand for oil and natural gas; -    the ability or willingness of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and the expanded alliance collectively known as OPEC+ to set and maintain oil production levels; -    the level of oil production in the U.S. and by other non-OPEC+ countries; -    oil refining capacity and shifts in end-customer preferences toward fuel efficiency and the use of natural gas; -    the cost of, and constraints associated with, producing and delivering oil and natural gas; -    governmental regulations, including the policies of governments regarding the exploration for and production and development of their oil and natural gas reserves; -    weather conditions, natural disasters, and health or similar issues, such as pandemics or epidemics; -    worldwide political, military, and economic conditions; and -    increased demand for alternative energy and electric vehicles and increased emphasis on decarbonization, including government initiatives to promote the use of renewable energy sources and public sentiment around alternatives to oil and gas. Our business is dependent on capital spending by our customers, and reductions in capital spending could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition. Our business is directly affected by changes in capital expenditures by our customers, and reductions in their capital spending could reduce demand for our services and products and have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition. Some of the items that may impact our customer's capital spending include: -    oil and natural gas prices, including volatility of oil and natural gas prices and expectations regarding future prices; -    the inability of our customers to access capital on economically advantageous terms, which may be impacted by, among other things, a decrease of investors' interest in hydrocarbon producers because of environmental and sustainability initiatives; -    changes in customers' capital allocation, including an increased allocation to the production of renewable energy, leading to less focus on oil and natural gas production growth; -    restrictions on our customers' ability to get their produced oil and natural gas to market due to infrastructure limitations; -    the consolidation of our customers; -    customer personnel changes; and -    adverse developments in the business or operations of our customers, including write-downs of oil and natural gas reserves and borrowing base reductions under customers' credit facilities. HAL 2021 FORM 10-K | 9 Liabilities arising out of our products and services could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition. Events can occur at sites where our products and equipment are produced or installed, or where we conduct our operations or provide our services, or at chemical blending or manufacturing facilities, including well blowouts and equipment or materials failures, which could result in explosions, fires, personal injuries, property damage (including surface and subsurface damage), pollution, and potential legal responsibility. Generally, we rely on liability insurance coverage and on contractual indemnities, releases, and limitations of liability with our customers to protect us from potential liability related to such occurrences. However, we do not have these contractual provisions in all contracts, and even where we do, it is possible that the respective customer or insurer could seek to avoid or be financially unable to meet its obligations, or a court may decline to enforce such provisions. Damages that are not indemnified or released could greatly exceed available insurance coverage and could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by severe or unseasonable weather where we have operations. Our business could be materially and adversely affected by severe weather, particularly in Canada, the Gulf of Mexico, Russia, and the North Sea. Many experts believe global climate change could increase the frequency and severity of extreme weather conditions. Repercussions of severe or unseasonable weather conditions may include: -    evacuation of personnel and curtailment of services; -    weather-related damage to offshore drilling rigs resulting in suspension of operations; -    weather-related damage to our facilities and project work sites; -    inability to deliver materials to jobsites in accordance with contract schedules; -    decreases in demand for oil and natural gas during unseasonably warm winters; and -    loss of productivity. Our failure to protect our proprietary information and any successful intellectual property challenges or infringement proceedings against us could materially and adversely affect our competitive position. We rely on a variety of intellectual property rights that we use in our services and products. We may not be able to successfully preserve these intellectual property rights in the future, and these rights could be invalidated, circumvented, or challenged. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries in which our services and products may be sold do not protect intellectual property rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Courts could find that others infringe our patent rights or that our products and services may infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Our failure to protect our proprietary information and any successful intellectual property challenges or infringement proceedings against us could materially and adversely affect our competitive position. If we are not able to design, develop and produce commercially competitive products and to implement commercially competitive services in a timely manner in response to changes in the market, customer requirements, competitive pressures, and technology trends, our business and consolidated results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, and the value of our intellectual property may be reduced. The market for our services and products is characterized by continual technological developments to provide better and more reliable performance and services. If we are not able to design, develop, and produce commercially competitive products and to implement commercially competitive services in a timely manner in response to changes in the market, customer requirements, competitive pressures, and technology trends, our business and consolidated results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, and the value of our intellectual property may be reduced. Likewise, if our proprietary technologies, equipment, facilities, or work processes become obsolete, we may no longer be competitive, and our business and consolidated results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. We sometimes provide integrated project management services in the form of long-term, fixed price contracts that may require us to assume additional risks associated with cost over-runs, operating cost inflation, labor availability and productivity, supplier and contractor pricing and performance, and potential claims for liquidated damages. We sometimes provide integrated project management services outside our normal discrete business in the form of long-term, fixed price contracts. Some of these contracts are required by our customers, primarily national oil companies (NOCs). These services include acting as project managers as well as service providers and may require us to assume additional risks associated with cost over-runs. These customers may provide us with inaccurate information in relation to their reserves, which is a subjective process that involves location and volume estimation, that may result in cost over-runs, delays, and project losses. In addition, NOCs often operate in countries with unsettled political conditions, war, civil unrest, or other types of community issues. These issues may also result in cost over-runs, delays, and project losses. HAL 2021 FORM 10-K | 10 Providing services on an integrated basis may also require us to assume additional risks associated with operating cost inflation, labor availability and productivity, supplier pricing and performance, and potential claims for liquidated damages. We rely on third-party subcontractors and equipment providers to assist us with the completion of these types of contracts. To the extent that we cannot engage subcontractors or acquire equipment or materials in a timely manner and on reasonable terms, our ability to complete a project in accordance with stated deadlines or at a profit may be impaired. If the amount we are required to pay for these goods and services exceeds the amount we have estimated in bidding for fixed-price work, we could experience losses in the performance of these contracts. These delays and additional costs may be substantial, and we may be required to compensate our customers for these delays. This may reduce the profit to be realized or result in a loss on a project. Constraints in the supply of, prices for and availability of transportation of raw materials can have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated results of operations. Raw materials essential to our business, such as proppants (primarily sand), hydrochloric acid, and gels, including guar gum, are normally readily available. Shortage of raw materials as a result of high levels of demand or loss of suppliers during market challenges can trigger constraints in the supply chain of those raw materials, particularly where we have a relationship with a single supplier for a particular resource. Many of the raw materials essential to our business require the use of rail, storage, and trucking services to transport the materials to our jobsites. These services, particularly during times of high demand, may cause delays in the arrival of or otherwise constrain our supply of raw materials. These constraints could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated results of operations. In addition, price increases imposed by our vendors for raw materials and transportation providers used in our business, and the inability to pass these increases through to our customers could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated results of operations. Our ability to operate and our growth potential could be materially and adversely affected if we cannot attract, employ, and retain technical personnel at a competitive cost. Many of the services that we provide and the products that we sell are complex and highly engineered and often must perform or be performed in harsh conditions. We believe that our success depends upon our ability to attract, employ, and retain technical personnel with the ability to design, utilize, and enhance these services and products. A significant increase in the wages paid by competing employers could result in a reduction of our skilled labor force, increases in the wage rates that we must pay, or both. If either of these events were to occur, our cost structure could increase, our margins could decrease, and any growth potential could be impaired. Laws and Regulations Related Our operations outside the United States require us to comply with a number of United States and international regulations, violations of which could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition. Our operations outside the United States require us to comply with a number of United States and international regulations. For example, our operations in countries outside the United States are subject to the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), which prohibits United States companies and their agents and employees from providing anything of value to a foreign official for the purposes of influencing any act or decision of these individuals in their official capacity to help obtain or retain business, direct business to any person or corporate entity, or obtain any unfair advantage. Our activities create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by our employees, agents, or joint venture partners that could be in violation of anti-corruption laws, even though some of these parties are not subject to our control. We have internal control policies and procedures and have implemented training and compliance programs for our employees and agents with respect to the FCPA. However, we cannot assure that our policies, procedures, and programs will always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees or agents. We are also subject to the risks that our employees, joint venture partners and agents outside of the United States may fail to comply with other applicable laws. Allegations of violations of applicable anti-corruption laws have resulted and may in the future result in internal, independent, or government investigations. Violations of anti-corruption laws may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions, and we may be subject to other liabilities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations and consolidated financial condition. HAL 2021 FORM 10-K | 11 In addition, the shipment of goods, services, and technology across international borders subjects us to extensive trade laws and regulations. Our import activities are governed by the unique customs laws and regulations in each of the countries where we operate. Moreover, many countries, including the United States, control the export, re-export, and in-country transfer of certain goods, services, and technology and impose related export recordkeeping and reporting obligations. Governments may also impose economic sanctions against certain countries, persons, and entities that may restrict or prohibit transactions involving such countries, persons, and entities, which may limit or prevent our conduct of business in certain jurisdictions. During 2014, the United States and European Union imposed sectoral sanctions directed at Russia’s oil and gas industry. Among other things, these sanctions restrict the provision of U.S. and EU goods, services, and technology in support of exploration or production for deep water, Arctic offshore, or shale projects that have the potential to produce oil in Russia. These sanctions resulted in our winding down and ending work on two projects in Russia in 2014 and have prevented us from pursuing certain other projects in Russia. In 2017 and 2018, the U.S. Government imposed additional sanctions against Russia, Russia’s oil and gas industry, and certain Russian companies. In connection with increasing tensions between Russia and the United States regarding Russia’s intentions with respect to Ukraine, the United States has threatened to impose aggressive additional sanctions against Russia if Russia invades Ukraine. Our ability to engage in certain future projects in Russia or involving certain Russian customers is dependent upon whether or not our involvement in such projects is restricted under U.S. or EU sanctions laws and the extent to which any of our current or prospective operations in Russia or with certain Russian customers may be subject to those laws. Those laws may change from time to time, and any expansion of sanctions against Russia’s oil and gas industry could further hinder our ability to do business in Russia or with certain Russian customers, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations. The U.S. Government imposed sanctions against Venezuela that have effectively required us to discontinue our operations there. Consequently, in connection with us winding down our operations in Venezuela, we wrote down all of our remaining investment in Venezuela in 2020. As of December 29, 2020, we no longer had any employees in Venezuela, although we continue to maintain our local entity, facilities, and equipment in-country, as permitted under applicable law. We are not currently conducting any other operational activities in Venezuela. The laws and regulations concerning import activity, export recordkeeping and reporting, export control and economic sanctions are complex and constantly changing. These laws and regulations can cause delays in shipments and unscheduled operational downtime. Moreover, any failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory trading obligations could result in criminal and civil penalties and sanctions, such as fines, imprisonment, debarment from governmental contracts, seizure of shipments, and loss of import and export privileges. In addition, investigations by governmental authorities and legal, social, economic, and political issues in these countries could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations and consolidated financial condition. Changes in, compliance with, or our failure to comply with laws in the countries in which we conduct business may negatively impact our ability to provide services in, make sales of equipment to, and transfer personnel or equipment among some of those countries and could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated results of operations. In the countries in which we conduct business, we are subject to multiple and, at times, inconsistent regulatory regimes, including those that govern our use of radioactive materials, explosives, and chemicals in the course of our operations. Various national and international regulatory regimes govern the shipment of these items. Many countries, but not all, impose special controls upon the export and import of radioactive materials, explosives, and chemicals. Our ability to do business is subject to maintaining required licenses and complying with these multiple regulatory requirements applicable to these special products. In addition, the various laws governing import and export of both products and technology apply to a wide range of services and products we offer. In turn, this can affect our employment practices of hiring people of different nationalities because these laws may prohibit or limit access to some products or technology by employees of various nationalities. Changes in, compliance with, or our failure to comply with these laws may negatively impact our ability to provide services in, make sales of equipment to, and transfer personnel or equipment among some of the countries in which we operate and could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated results of operations. HAL 2021 FORM 10-K | 12 The adoption of any future federal, state, or local laws or implementing regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting or banning, the hydraulic fracturing process could make it more difficult to complete natural gas and oil wells and could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition. Various federal and state legislative and regulatory initiatives, as well as actions in other countries, have been or could be undertaken that could result in additional requirements or restrictions being imposed on hydraulic fracturing operations. For example, the United States may seek to adopt federal regulations or enact federal laws that would impose additional regulatory requirements on or even prohibit hydraulic fracturing in some areas. Legislation and/or regulations have been adopted in many U.S. states that require additional disclosure regarding chemicals used in the hydraulic fracturing process but that generally include protections for proprietary information. Legislation, regulations, and/or policies have also been adopted at the state level that impose other types of requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations (such as limits on operations in the event of certain levels of seismic activity). Additional legislation and/or regulations have been adopted or are being considered at the state and local level that could impose further chemical disclosure or other regulatory requirements (such as prohibitions on hydraulic fracturing operations in certain areas) that could affect our operations. Four states (New York, Maryland, Vermont, and Washington) have banned the use of high volume hydraulic fracturing, Oregon has adopted a five-year moratorium, and Colorado has enacted legislation providing local governments with regulatory authority over hydraulic fracturing operations. Local jurisdictions in some states have adopted ordinances that restrict or in certain cases prohibit the use of hydraulic fracturing, although many of these ordinances have been challenged and some have been overturned. In addition, governmental authorities in various foreign countries where we have provided or may provide hydraulic fracturing services have imposed or are considering imposing various restrictions or conditions that may affect hydraulic fracturing operations. The adoption of any future federal, state, local, or foreign laws or regulations imposing reporting obligations on, or limiting or banning, the hydraulic fracturing process could make it more difficult to complete natural gas and oil wells and could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition. Liability for cleanup costs, natural resource damages and other damages arising as a result of environmental laws and regulations could be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition. We are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations in the United States and the other countries where we do business. We evaluate and address the environmental impact of our operations by assessing and remediating contaminated properties to avoid future liabilities and comply with legal and regulatory requirements. From time to time, claims have been made against us under environmental laws and regulations. In the United States, environmental laws and regulations typically impose strict liability. Strict liability means that in some situations we could be exposed to liability for cleanup costs, natural resource damages, and other damages as a result of our conduct that was lawful at the time it occurred or the conduct of prior operators or other third parties. We are periodically notified of potential liabilities at federal and state superfund sites. These potential liabilities may arise from both historical Halliburton operations and the historical operations of companies that we have acquired. Our exposure at these sites may be materially impacted by unforeseen adverse developments both in the final remediation costs and with respect to the final allocation among the various parties involved at the sites. The relevant regulatory agency may bring suit against us for amounts in excess of what we have accrued and what we believe is our proportionate share of remediation costs at any superfund site. We also could be subject to third-party claims, including punitive damages, with respect to environmental matters for which we have been named as a potentially responsible party. Liability for damages arising as a result of environmental laws or related third-party claims could be substantial and could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition. Failure on our part to comply with, and the costs of compliance with, applicable health, safety, and environmental requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition. In addition to the numerous environmental laws and regulations that apply to our operations, we are subject to a variety of laws and regulations in the United States and other countries relating to health and safety. Among those laws and regulations are those covering hazardous materials and requiring emission performance standards for facilities. For example, our well service operations routinely involve the handling of significant amounts of waste materials, some of which are classified as hazardous substances. We also store, transport, and use radioactive and explosive materials in certain of our operations. Applicable regulatory requirements include those concerning: -    the containment and disposal of hazardous substances, oilfield waste, and other waste materials; -    the production, storage, transportation and use of explosive materials; -    the importation and use of radioactive materials; -    the use of underground storage tanks; -    the use of underground injection wells; and -    the protection of worker safety both onshore and offshore. HAL 2021 FORM 10-K | 13 These and other requirements generally are becoming increasingly strict. The failure to comply with the requirements, many of which may be applied retroactively, may result in: -    administrative, civil, and criminal penalties; -    revocation of permits to conduct business; and -    corrective action orders, including orders to investigate and/or clean up contamination. Failure on our part to comply with applicable health, safety, and environmental laws and regulations or costs arising from regulatory compliance, including compliance with changes in or expansion of applicable regulatory requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition. Existing or future laws, regulations, treaties, or international agreements related to greenhouse gases, climate change, and alternative energy sources could have a negative impact on our business and may result in additional compliance obligations that could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition. Changes in or the adoption or enactment of laws, regulations, treaties or international agreements related to greenhouse gases, climate change, and alternative energy sources, including changes that may make it more expensive to explore for and produce oil and natural gas, may negatively impact demand for our services and products. For example, oil and natural gas exploration and production may decline as a result of environmental requirements, including land use policies responsive to environmental concerns. State, national, and international governments and agencies in areas in which we conduct business continue to evaluate, and in some instances adopt, climate-related legislation and other regulatory initiatives that would restrict emissions of greenhouse gases. The President of the United States has issued Executive Orders seeking to adopt new regulations and policies to address climate change and to suspend, revise, or rescind prior agency actions that the administration identified as conflicting with its climate policies. These include Executive Orders requiring a review of current U.S. federal lands leasing and permitting practices, as well as a temporary halt of new leasing of U.S. federal lands and offshore waters available for oil and gas exploration. The Executive Orders halting the leasing of U.S. federal lands were challenged in court and remain subject to litigation. As a result of the review of leasing and permitting practices, the U.S. Department of the Interior has recommended increasing the royalty rate payable to the U.S. government by operators, as well as bonding requirements and emissions requirements for operators. Some form of these recommendations may become applicable to operations on U.S. federal leases, which could have a negative effect on exploration and production of oil and natural gas given the increased costs associated with any such changes. In February 2021, the United States formally re-joined the Paris Agreement. The Paris Agreement requires countries to review and “represent a progression” in their intended nationally determined contributions, which set greenhouse gases emission reduction goals, every five years. Though we are closely following developments in this area and changes in the regulatory landscape in the United States, we cannot predict how or when those challenges may ultimately impact our business. Because our business depends on the level of activity in the oil and natural gas industry, existing or future laws, regulations, treaties, or international agreements related to greenhouse gases and climate change, including incentives to conserve energy or use alternative energy sources, may reduce demand for oil and natural gas and could have a negative impact on our business. Likewise, such restrictions may result in additional compliance obligations with respect to the release, capture, sequestration, and use of carbon dioxide. The efforts we have taken, and may undertake in the future, to respond to these evolving or new regulations and to environmental initiatives of customers, investors, and others may increase our costs. These and other environmental requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition. The Company could be subject to changes in its tax rates, the adoption of new tax legislation, tax audits, or exposure to additional tax liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition. We are subject to taxes in the U.S. and numerous jurisdictions where we operate and our subsidiaries are organized. Due to economic and political conditions, tax rates in the U.S. and other jurisdictions may be subject to significant change. In addition, our tax returns are subject to examination by the U.S. and other tax authorities and governmental bodies. We regularly assess the likelihood of an adverse outcome resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for taxes. There can be no assurance as to the outcome of the examinations. An increase in tax rates, particularly in the U.S., changes in our ability to realize our deferred tax assets, or adverse outcomes resulting from examinations of our tax returns could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition. HAL 2021 FORM 10-K | 14 Our operations are subject to political and economic instability and risk of government actions that could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition. We are exposed to risks inherent in doing business in each of the countries in which we operate. Our operations are subject to various risks unique to each country that could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition. With respect to any particular country, these risks may include: -    political and economic instability, including: • civil unrest, acts of terrorism, war, and other armed conflict; • inflation; and • currency fluctuations, devaluations, and conversion restrictions; and -    governmental actions that may: • result in expropriation and nationalization of our assets in that country; • result in confiscatory taxation or other adverse tax policies; • limit or disrupt markets or our customers and our operations, restrict payments, or limit the movement of funds; • impose sanctions on our ability to conduct business with certain customers or persons; • result in the deprivation of contract rights; and • result in the inability to obtain or retain licenses required for operation. For example, due to the unsettled political conditions in many oil-producing countries, our operations, revenue, and profits are subject to the adverse consequences of war, terrorism, civil unrest, strikes, currency controls, and governmental actions. These, and other risks described above, could result in the loss of our personnel or assets, cause us to evacuate our personnel from certain countries, cause us to increase spending on security worldwide, cause us to cease operating in certain countries, disrupt financial and commercial markets, including the supply of and pricing for oil and natural gas, and generate greater political and economic instability in some of the geographic areas in which we operate. Areas where we operate that have significant risk include, but are not limited to: the Middle East, North Africa, Angola, Argentina, Azerbaijan, Brazil, Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Mexico, Mozambique, Nigeria, Papa New Guinea, Russia, and Ukraine. In addition, any possible reprisals as a consequence of military or other action, such as acts of terrorism in the United States or elsewhere, could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition. General Risk Factors The COVID-19 pandemic and related economic repercussions could have a m aterial adverse effect on our business, liquidity, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition. The COVID-19 pandemic and related economic repercussions created significant volatility, uncertainty, and turmoil in the oil and gas industry during the last two years. Since the onset of the pandemic in early 2020, these events directly affected our business and exacerbated the negative impact from many of the risks our business is subject to, including those relating to the worldwide demand for oil and natural gas, our customers' capital spending and the impact on oil and natural gas prices. In addition, the pandemic and efforts to mitigate its spread have resulted in logistical challenges to our operations, including travel restrictions that prevent our personnel from commuting to certain facilities and job sites. These logistical challenges could increase if the pandemic worsens or persists. Oil demand during 2020 and 2021 was substantially less than demand in 2019 as a result of the virus and corresponding measures taken around the world to mitigate its spread. Though demand began to increase during the latter part of 2021, a worsening of the virus could result in an increase in mitigation efforts and a reduction in demand for oil and gas and our services and products. Given the nature and significance of the events described above, we are not able to enumerate all related potential risks to our business; however, we believe that in addition to the impacts described above, other current and potential impacts of these recent events include, but are not limited to: • disruption to our supply chain for raw materials essential to our business, including restrictions on importing and exporting products and inflationary pressures; • notices from customers, suppliers, and other third parties arguing that their non-performance under our contracts with them is permitted as a result of force majeure or other reasons; • liquidity challenges, including impacts related to delayed customer payments and payment defaults associated with customer liquidity issues and bankruptcies; • a credit rating downgrade of our corporate debt and potentially higher borrowing costs in the future; • cybersecurity issues, as digital technologies may become more vulnerable and experience a higher rate of cyberattacks in the current environment of remote connectivity; HAL 2021 FORM 10-K | 15 • litigation risk and possible loss contingencies related to COVID-19 and its impact, including with respect to commercial contracts, employee matters, and insurance arrangements; • additional costs associated with rationalization of our portfolio of real estate facilities, including possible exit of leases and facility closures to align with expected activity and workforce capacity; • additional asset impairments, including an impairment of the carrying value of our goodwill, along with other accounting charges; • infections and quarantining of our employees and the personnel of our customers, suppliers, and other third parties in areas in which we operate; • actions undertaken by national, regional, and local governments and health officials to contain COVID-19 or treat its effects; and • a structural shift in the global economy and its demand for oil and natural gas as a result of changes in the way people work, travel, and interact, or in connection with a global recession or depression. Given the dynamic nature of these events, we cannot reasonably estimate the period of time that the COVID-19 pandemic and related market conditions will persist or any changes in their severity, the full extent of the impact they will have on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows or the pace or extent of any recovery. For more information, see “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Executive Overview.” Our operations are subject to cyberattacks that could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition. We are increasingly dependent on digital technologies and services to conduct our business. We use these technologies for internal purposes, including data storage, processing, and transmissions, as well as in our interactions with our business associates, such as customers and suppliers. Examples of these digital technologies include analytics, automation, and cloud services. Our digital technologies and services, and those of our business associates, are subject to the risk of cyberattacks and, given the nature of such attacks, some incidents can remain undetected for a period of time despite efforts to detect and respond to them in a timely manner. We routinely monitor our systems for cyber threats and have processes in place to detect and remediate vulnerabilities. Nevertheless, we have experienced occasional cyberattacks and attempted breaches over the past year, including attacks resulting from phishing emails and malware infections. We detected and remediated all of these incidents. Even if we successfully defend our own digital technologies and services, we also rely on our business associates, with whom we may share data and services, to defend their digital technologies and services against attack. No known leakage of material financial, technical or customer data occurred as a result of cyberattacks against us and none of the incidents mentioned above had a material adverse effect on our business, operations, reputation, or consolidated results of operations or consolidated financial condition. If our systems, or our business associates' systems, for protecting against cybersecurity risks prove not to be sufficient, we could be adversely affected by, among other things: loss of or damage to intellectual property, proprietary, or confidential information, or customer, supplier, or employee data; interruption of our business operations; and increased costs required to prevent, respond to, or mitigate cybersecurity attacks. These risks could harm our reputation and our relationships with our business associates, employees, and other third parties, and may result in claims against us. These risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations and consolidated financial condition. We are subject to foreign currency exchange risks and limitations on our ability to reinvest earnings from operations in one country to fund the capital needs of our operations in other countries or to repatriate assets from some countries. A sizable portion of our consolidated revenue and consolidated operating expenses is in foreign currencies. As a result, we are subject to significant risks, including: -    foreign currency exchange risks resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and the implementation of exchange controls; and -    limitations on our ability to reinvest earnings from operations in one country to fund the capital needs of our operations in other countries. As an example, we conduct business in countries that have restricted or limited trading markets for their local currencies and restrict or limit cash repatriation. We may accumulate cash in those geographies, but we may be limited in our ability to convert our profits into United States dollars or to repatriate the profits from those countries. HAL 2021 FORM 10-K | 16 If we lose one or more of our significant customers or if our customers delay paying or fail to pay a significant amount of our outstanding receivables, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition. We depend on a limited number of significant customers. While no single customer represented more than 10% of consolidated revenue in any period presented, the loss of one or more significant customers could have a material adverse effect on our business and our consolidated results of operations. In most cases, we bill our customers for our services in arrears and are, therefore, subject to our customers delaying or failing to pay our invoices. We may experience increased delays and failures due to, among other reasons, a reduction in our customers’ cash flow from operations and their access to the credit markets, particularly in weak economic or commodity price environments. If our customers delay paying or fail to pay us a significant amount of our outstanding receivables, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations and consolidated financial condition. Our acquisitions, dispositions and investments may not result in anticipated benefits and may present risks not originally contemplated, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition. We continually seek opportunities to maximize efficiency and value through various transactions, including purchases or sales of assets, businesses, investments, or joint venture interests. These transactions are intended to (but may not) result in the realization of savings, the creation of efficiencies, the offering of new products or services, the generation of cash or income, or the reduction of risk. Acquisition transactions may use cash on hand or be financed by additional borrowings or by the issuance of our common stock. These transactions may also affect our business, consolidated results of operations, and consolidated financial condition. These transactions also involve risks, and we cannot ensure that: -    any acquisitions we attempt will be completed on the terms announced, or at all; -    any acquisitions would result in an increase in income or provide an adequate return of capital or other anticipated benefits; -    any acquisitions would be successfully integrated into our operations and internal controls; -    the due diligence conducted prior to an acquisition would uncover situations that could result in financial or legal exposure, including under the FCPA, or that we will appropriately quantify the exposure from known risks; -    any disposition would not result in decreased earnings, revenue, or cash flow; -    use of cash for acquisitions would not adversely affect our cash available for capital expenditures and other uses; or -    any dispositions, investments, or acquisitions, including integration efforts, would not divert management resources. Actions of and disputes with our joint venture partners could have a material adverse effect on the business and results of operations of our joint ventures and, in turn, our business and consolidated results of operations. We conduct some operations through joint ventures in which unaffiliated third parties may control the operations of the joint venture or we may share control. As with any joint venture arrangement, differences in views among the joint venture participants may result in delayed decisions, the joint venture operating in a manner that is contrary to our preference or in failures to agree on major issues. We also cannot control the actions of our joint venture partners, including any nonperformance, default, or bankruptcy of our joint venture partners. These factors could have a material adverse effect on the business and results of operations of our joint ventures and, in turn, our business and consolidated results of operations. The loss or unavailability of any of our executive officers or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. We depend greatly on the efforts of our executive officers and other key employees to manage our operations. The loss or unavailability of any of our executive officers or other key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business. HAL 2021 FORM 10-K | 17

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) should be read in conjunction with the consolidated and combined financial statements included in "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" contained herein. EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW Financial results The oil and gas industry continued to be impacted from shutdowns and mitigation efforts related to the COVID-19 pandemic during 2021, though there are signs that business activity around the world has adjusted and continues to improve. Despite these difficulties, in 2021 we demonstrated resilience and a strong commitment to our execution culture and delivered increased revenues, operating income, and cash flows from operations. The following graph illustrates our revenue and operating margins for each operating segment over the past three years. During 2021, we generated total company revenue of $15.3 billion, a 6% increase from the $14.4 billion of revenue generated in 2020, with our Completion and Production (C&P) segment increasing by 7% and our Drilling and Evaluation (D&E) segment increasing by 4%. These increases were driven primarily by increased demand for our products and services in North America land tied to a substantial improvement in the North America land rig count during 2021. We reported total company operating income of approximately $1.8 billion in 2021. This compares to operating loss of $2.4 billion in 2020 that was driven by $3.8 billion of impairments and other charges as a result of the unprecedented downturn in the oil and gas industry, including a significant decline in pressure pumping services in North America land, caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. Internationally, revenue improved 2% in 2021 compared to 2020, primarily driven by higher activity for drilling and completions related services in Latin America which were partly offset by lower activity in the Eastern Hemisphere. Despite an 8% reduction in the international rig count during 2021, we improved our overall international margin. Our North America revenue increased 11% in 2021 compared to 2020, resulting from higher activity and pricing in North America land primarily associated with increased stimulation and well construction services. While the North America land rig count is increasing, it is still below pre-pandemic levels. Even without improved pricing, we took advantage of the recovery in completions and drilling activity in 2021 and delivered margin improvement, demonstrating the operating leverage from our cost reductions and service delivery improvements in North America. HAL 2021 FORM 10-K | 21 Sustainability and Energy Advancement In the first quarter of 2021, we announced our target to achieve 40% reduction in Scope 1 and 2 emissions by 2035 from the 2018 baseline. This is consistent with our goal to reduce the carbon footprint and environmental impact of our operations and follows our commitment to set science-based targets. We continue to pursue our strategic initiatives around advancing cleaner, affordable energy, and using innovation and technology to reduce the environmental impact of producing oil and gas. We are continuing to develop and deploy low-carbon solutions to help oil and gas operators lower their current emissions profiles while also using our existing technologies in renewable energy applications. In addition, Halliburton Labs added eleven participating companies during 2021. Through Halliburton Labs, we gain insight into the energy transition value chain and foster the development of technologies that may help reduce the world’s carbon footprint. Also, for 2021, we were named to the Dow Jones Sustainability Index North America for Energy Equipment and Services, which highlights the top 10% most sustainable North America companies in identified industries, as determined by S&P Global through their Corporate Sustainability Assessment. Our operating performance and liquidity are described in more detail in “Liquidity and Capital Resources” and “Business Environment and Results of Operations.” HAL 2021 FORM 10-K | 22 LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES As of December 31, 2021, we had $3.0 billion of cash and equivalents, compared to $2.6 billion of cash and equivalents at December 31, 2020. Significant sources and uses of cash in 2021 Sources of cash: • Cash flows from operating activities were $1.9 billion. This included a positive impact from the primary components of our working capital (receivables, inventories, and accounts payable) of a net $285 million, primarily associated with increased payables. Uses of cash: • In February of 2021, we repaid the $185 million principal balance of our 8.75% senior debentures at maturity. • In August of 2021, we redeemed the entire $500 million aggregate principal amount outstanding of our 3.25% senior notes at par. • Capital expenditures were $799 million. • We paid $161 million of dividends to our shareholders. Future sources and uses of cash We manufacture most of our own equipment, which provides us with some flexibility to increase or decrease our capital expenditures based on market conditions. Capital spending for 2022 is currently expected to be $1.0 billion, remaining within our target of approximately 5-6% of revenue. We believe this level of spend will allow us to invest in our key strategic areas. However, we will continue to maintain capital discipline and monitor the rapidly changing market dynamics, and we may adjust our capital spend accordingly. In 2022, we expect to pay approximately $443 million of interest on debt and approximately $351 million under our leasing arrangements. Payments for interest on our debt arrangements are expected to remain relatively flat for the foreseeable future. See Note 6 and Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information on expected future payments under our leasing arrangements and debt maturities. We are not able to reasonably estimate the timing of cash outflows associated with our uncertain tax positions, in part because we are unable to predict the timing of potential tax settlements with applicable taxing authorities. As of December 31, 2021, we had $352 million of gross unrecognized tax benefits, excluding penalties and interest, of which we estimate $266 million may require us to make a cash payment. We estimate that approximately $198 million of the cash payment will not be settled within the next 12 months. In January of 2022, we announced that our Board of Directors declared a dividend of $0.12 per share for the first quarter of 2022, or approximately $107 million, which represents a $0.075 increase from the quarterly dividend paid during 2021. Our Board of Directors has authorized a program to repurchase our common stock from time to time. Approximately $5.1 billion remained authorized for repurchases as of December 31, 2021 and may be used for open market and other share purchases. In January of 2022, we announced that on February 23, 2022, we will redeem $600 million aggregate principal amount of our 3.8% senior notes that mature in November 2025. The aggregate principal amount currently outstanding is approximately $1.0 billion. We plan to use cash on hand to fund the redemption. We do not intend to incur additional debt in 2022, as we believe our cash on hand and earnings from operations are sufficient to cover our obligations for the year. HAL 2021 FORM 10-K | 23 Other factors affecting liquidity Financial position in current market. As of December 31, 2021, we had $3.0 billion of cash and equivalents and $3.5 billion of available committed bank credit under our revolving credit facility. We believe we have a manageable debt maturity profile, with approximately $1.6 billion coming due through 2026, which includes the $600 million debt we will redeem on February 23, 2022 as described above. Furthermore, we have no financial covenants or material adverse change provisions in our bank agreements, and our debt maturities extend over a long period of time. We believe our cash on hand, cash flows generated from operations, and our available credit facility will provide sufficient liquidity to address the challenges and opportunities of the current market and our global cash needs, including capital expenditures, working capital investments, dividends, if any, debt repayment, and contingent liabilities. Guarantee agreements. In the normal course of business, we have agreements with financial institutions under which approximately $1.9 billion of letters of credit, bank guarantees, or surety bonds were outstanding as of December 31, 2021. Some of the outstanding letters of credit have triggering events that would entitle a bank to require cash collateralization, however, none of these triggering events have occurred. As of December 31, 2021, we had no material off-balance sheet liabilities and were not required to make any material cash distributions to our unconsolidated subsidiaries. Credit ratings. Our credit ratings with Standard & Poor’s (S&P) remain BBB+ for our long-term debt and A-2 for our short-term debt, with a stable outlook. Our credit ratings with Moody’s Investors Service (Moody's) remain Baa1 for our long-term debt and P-2 for our short-term debt, with a stable outlook. Customer receivables . In line with industry practice, we bill our customers for our services in arrears and are, therefore, subject to our customers delaying or failing to pay our invoices. We may experience increased delays and failures to pay our invoices due to, among other reasons, a reduction in our customers’ cash flow from operations and their access to the credit markets, particularly in weak economic environments, as well as unsettled political conditions. Given the nature and significance of the pandemic and disruption in the oil and gas industry, we have experienced delayed customer payments and payment defaults associated with customer liquidity issues and bankruptcies. Receivables from our primary customer in Mexico accounted for approximately 10% of our total receivables as of December 31, 2021. While we have experienced payment delays in Mexico, these amounts are not in dispute and we have not historically had, and we do not expect, any material write-offs due to collectability of receivables from this customer. HAL 2021 FORM 10-K | 24 BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS We operate in more than 70 countries throughout the world to provide a comprehensive range of services and products to the energy industry. Our revenue is generated from the sale of services and products to major, national, and independent oil and natural gas companies worldwide. The industry we serve is highly competitive with many substantial competitors in each segment of our business. In 2021, 2020, and 2019, based on the location of services provided and products sold, 40%, 38%, and 51%, respectively, of our consolidated revenue was from the United States. No other country accounted for more than 10% of our revenue. Activity within our business segments is significantly impacted by spending on upstream exploration, development, and production programs by our customers. Also impacting our activity is the status of the global economy, which impacts oil and natural gas consumption. The COVID-19 pandemic and efforts to mitigate its effect had a substantial negative impact on the global economy and demand for oil in 2020 and 2021. As discussed earlier, although there are signs of improvement in many areas around the world, the potential for new lockdowns and other mitigation efforts to deal with an increase in infection rates or new variants remains a key risk for oil demand. Some of the more significant determinants of current and future spending levels of our customers are oil and natural gas prices and our customers' expectations about future prices, global oil supply and demand, completions intensity, the world economy, the availability of capital, government regulation, and global stability, which together drive worldwide drilling and completions activity. Additionally, many of our customers in North America have shifted their strategy from production growth to operating within cash flow and generating returns, and we generally expect that to continue in 2022. Lower oil and natural gas prices usually translate into lower exploration and production budgets and lower rig count, while the opposite is usually true for higher oil and natural gas prices. Our financial performance is therefore significantly affected by oil and natural gas prices and worldwide rig activity, which are summarized in the tables below. The table below shows the average oil and natural gas prices for West Texas Intermediate (WTI), United Kingdom Brent crude oil, and Henry Hub natural gas. The historical average rig counts based on the weekly Baker Hughes rig count data were as follows: HAL 2021 FORM 10-K | 25 Business outlook We believe that commodity prices will remain supportive of our business through 2022. According to the United States Energy Information Administration (EIA) January 2022 "Short Term Energy Outlook," the EIA expects Brent crude oil spot prices to average $75 per barrel for the full year of 2022, an increase of approximately 6% over the full year of 2021 average price per barrel. The EIA expects the WTI spot prices to average $71 per barrel for the full year of 2022, an increase of approximately 4% over full year of 2021 average price per barrel. On January 31, 2022, the Brent crude oil spot price was $89 per barrel and the WTI spot price was $88 per barrel. The EIA's report projects Henry Hub natural gas prices to average $3.79 per MMBtu for the full year of 2022, a slight decrease over full year of 2021 averages. On January 31, 2022, the Henry Hub natural gas price was $4.87 per MMBtu. The International Energy Agency's (IEA) January 2022 "Oil Market Report" (OMR) forecasts 2022 global oil demand to reach 100.8 million barrels per day, an increase of 4% from 2021. The EIA reported crude oil production in the United States averaged 11.2 million barrels per day in 2021, and the EIA expects production to average 11.8 million barrels per day in 2022, an approximate 5% increase. In addition, the EIA expects crude oil production in the United States to rise to 12.4 million barrels per day in 2023. The recent surge of new COVID-19 cases related to the Omicron variant dampened the expectations of some economists regarding economic recovery and increasing demand for oil. For example, due to travel restrictions put in place as a result of Omicron, the global oil demand forecast for 2022 was originally revised down by forecasters, including the IEA and EIA, primarily to account for projected reduced jet fuel use. However, the wave of infections related to the Omicron variant appears to be less severe and potentially of shorter duration than prior waves. Consequently, we and the IEA, do not believe that this surge should overturn the recovery in oil demand that is underway. With widespread vaccination campaigns, and the apparent lower rates of serious illness, and hospitalization resulting from the recent wave, we expect that this wave is likely to have a more muted impact on the economy and demand for oil than previous COVID-19 waves. Based on our expectations regarding the Omicron variant's impact on the demand for oil and assuming a more severe variant does not become widespread during 2022, we expect international activity growth to maintain momentum and customer spending to increase in the range of 14-16% in 2022, led by operators with shorter-cycle production opportunities committing additional capital to meet increasing oil demand. Internationally, we anticipate projects in the Middle East, Russia, and Latin America to attract the most investment, with lower levels of activity increases in Africa and Europe. While large tenders remain competitive, we see pricing traction on new work and contract renewals, including integrated contracts. We also expect to accelerate work on projects that were delayed or slowed due to pandemic-related travel restrictions. In North America, consistent with historical trends, the recovery in activity was faster and more pronounced than in the international markets. North America drilling activity outpaced completions as operators prepared well inventory for 2022. Given the stronger commodity price environment, we anticipate customer spending to grow more than 25% in 2022, as compared to 2021, with the highest increase coming from private operators. We expect this will enable us to secure net pricing gains for our fracturing fleet as well as our drilling, cementing, drill bits, and artificial lift businesses. We expect most publicly traded exploration and production (E&Ps) companies to continue to prioritize returns, while delivering production into a supportive market. HAL 2021 FORM 10-K | 26 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS IN 2021 COMPARED TO 2020 Consolidated revenue in 2021 was $15.3 billion, an increase of $850 million, or 6%, compared to 2020, mainly due to higher activity and pricing in North America land and Latin America, primarily associated with stimulation services and well construction services. Also, artificial lift activity in North America land and wireline activity in Latin America showed improvements. Partially offsetting these increases were declines in completion tool sales and drilling-related services in the Eastern Hemisphere and lower stimulation activity in Middle East/Asia. Revenue from North America was 42% of consolidated revenue in 2021 and 40% of consolidated revenue in 2020. We reported consolidated operating income of $1.8 billion in 2021. This compares to an operating loss of $2.4 billion in 2020, driven by $3.8 billion of impairments and other charges taken in 2020. An increase in activity and pricing for stimulation and well construction services in North America land and Latin America during 2021 positively impacted operating results. Also, global wireline activity and project management activity in Latin America and Middle East/Asia improved. These increases were partially offset by lower software sales globally. See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion on impairments and other charges. OPERATING SEGMENTS Completion and Production Completion and Production revenue was $8.4 billion in 2021, an increase of $571 million, or 7%, compared to 2020. Operating income was $1.2 billion in 2021, a 24% increase from $995 million in 2020. These results were primarily driven by increased activity and pricing for pressure pumping services in North America land, Latin America, and Europe Africa/CIS, higher artificial lift activity in North America land, increased well intervention services in Latin America, and increased pipeline services in China, Russia, and the United Kingdom. Partially offsetting these results were decreases in completion tool sales in the Eastern Hemisphere, Canada, and the Gulf of Mexico, along with lower pressure pumping services in Middle East/Asia, the Gulf of Mexico, and Canada. HAL 2021 FORM 10-K | 27 Drilling and Evaluation Drilling and Evaluation revenue was $6.9 billion in 2021, an increase of $279 million, or 4%, from 2020. Operating income was $801 million in 2021, an increase of $232 million, or 41%, compared to 2020. These results were primarily related to increased drilling-related services in the Western Hemisphere, improved project management activity in Ecuador, Mexico, Oman, Saudi Arabia, increased well control activity in Nigeria, and increased wireline activity and testing services in Latin America. These improvements were partially offset by reduced drilling-related services in the Eastern Hemisphere, lower wireline activity and testing services in Saudi Arabia, a decline in software sales globally, and lower project management activity in India and Iraq. GEOGRAPHIC REGIONS North America North America revenue was $6.4 billion in 2021, an 11% increase compared to 2020, resulting from higher activity and pricing in North America land, primarily associated with pressure pumping services, drilling-related services, and artificial lift activity. These increases were partially offset by lower pressure pumping services in Canada and completion tool sales in Canada and the Gulf of Mexico. Also, software sales and wireline activity were lower across the region. Latin America Latin America revenue was $2.4 billion in 2021, a 42% increase compared to 2020, resulting primarily from improvements in stimulation activity, well construction services, wireline activity, completion tool sales, and testing services in Argentina, coupled with increased fluid services in the Caribbean and Brazil. Also improving were pressure pumping services, project management activity, testing services, drilling services, and completion tool sales in Mexico, along with improved drilling services in Brazil and increased well intervention services across the region. In addition, project management activity was higher in Ecuador. Partly offsetting these increases were lower completion tool sales in Trinidad and reduced software sales across the region. Europe/Africa/CIS Europe/Africa/CIS revenue was $2.7 billion in 2021, a 3% decrease compared to 2020. The decrease was driven by lower activity across multiple product service lines in Russia combined with lower fluid services and completion tool sales across the region, coupled with reduced cementing activity in Nigeria. These declines were partially offset by increases in completion tool sales and cementing activity in Norway, testing services in Algeria, project management activity in Nigeria, pressure pumping services in Angola, pipeline services in the United Kingdom, and wireline activity across the region. Middle East/Asia Middle East/Asia revenue was $3.8 billion in 2021, a 9% decrease compared to 2020. The decrease was primarily from reduced activity across multiple product service lines in Saudi Arabia, Indonesia, and United Arab Emirates, lower completion tool sales and pressure pumping services across the region, and reduced project management activity in India and Iraq. Partially offsetting these decreases were higher project management activity and drilling services in Oman and increased pipeline services in China. OTHER OPERATING ITEMS Impairments and other charges. During 2021, we recognized $12 million of net charges. This includes $36 million of depreciation catch-up expense related to assets previously classified as held for sale related to our Pipeline and Process Services business, $15 million of severance costs, and $35 million of other items, partially offset by a $74 million gain related to the closing of the structured transaction for our North America real estate assets. This compares to $3.8 billion of impairments and other charges recorded in 2020, consisting of asset impairments primarily associated with pressure pumping and drilling equipment, as well as severance and other costs incurred as we adjusted our cost structure during the year. See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion on these charges. NONOPERATING ITEMS Loss on early extinguishment of debt. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we recorded a $168 million loss on the early extinguishment of debt, which included a tender premium, unamortized discounts and costs on the retired notes, and tender fees. See Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. HAL 2021 FORM 10-K | 28 Income tax (provision) benefit . Our tax (provisions) benefits are sensitive to the geographic mix of earnings and our ability to use our deferred tax assets. During 2021, we recorded a total income tax benefit of $216 million on pre-tax income of $1.3 billion, resulting in an effective tax rate of -17.2%. We recorded a tax benefit of approximately $500 million during 2021, primarily due to the partial release of a valuation allowance on our deferred tax assets. This release was based on improved market conditions and reflects our expectation to utilize these deferred tax assets. During 2020, we recorded a total income tax benefit of $278 million on pre-tax loss of $3.2 billion, resulting in an effective tax rate of 8.6%. See Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements for significant drivers of these tax (provisions) benefits. HAL 2021 FORM 10-K | 29 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS IN 2020 COMPARED TO 2019 Information related to the comparison of our operating results between the years 2020 and 2019 is included in "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" of our filed with the SEC and is incorporated by reference into this annual report on Form 10-K. HAL 2021 FORM 10-K | 30 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES The preparation of financial statements requires the use of judgments and estimates. Our critical accounting policies are described below to provide a better understanding of how we develop our assumptions and judgments about future events and related estimates and how they can impact our financial statements. A critical accounting estimate is one that requires our most difficult, subjective, or complex judgments and assessments and is fundamental to our results of operations. We identified our most critical accounting estimates to be: -    forecasting our income tax (provision) benefit, including our future ability to utilize foreign tax credits and the realizability of deferred tax assets (including net operating loss carryforwards), and providing for uncertain tax positions; -    legal and investigation matters; -    valuations of long-lived assets, including intangible assets and goodwill; and -    allowance for credit losses. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions we believe to be reasonable according to the current facts and circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. We believe the following are the critical accounting policies used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements, as well as the significant estimates and judgments affecting the application of these policies. This discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this report. Income tax accounting We recognize the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year and use an asset and liability approach in recognizing the amount of deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our financial statements or tax returns. We apply the following basic principles in accounting for our income taxes: -    a current tax liability or asset is recognized for the estimated taxes payable or refundable on tax returns for the current year; -    a deferred tax liability or asset is recognized for the estimated future tax effects attributable to temporary differences and carryforwards; -    the measurement of current and deferred tax liabilities and assets is based on provisions of the enacted tax law, and the effects of potential future changes in tax laws or rates are not considered; and -    the value of deferred tax assets is reduced, if necessary, by the amount of any tax benefits that, based on available evidence, are not expected to be realized. We determine deferred taxes separately for each tax-paying component (an entity or a group of entities that is consolidated for tax purposes) in each tax jurisdiction. That determination includes the following procedures: -    identifying the types and amounts of existing temporary differences; -    measuring the total deferred tax liability for taxable temporary differences using the applicable tax rate; -    measuring the total deferred tax asset for deductible temporary differences and operating loss carryforwards using the applicable tax rate; -    measuring the deferred tax assets for each type of tax credit carryforward; and -    reducing the deferred tax assets by a valuation allowance if, based on available evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. Our methodology for recording income taxes requires a significant amount of judgment and the use of assumptions and estimates. Additionally, we use forecasts of certain tax elements, such as taxable income and foreign tax credit utilization, as well as evaluate the feasibility of implementing tax planning strategies. Given the inherent uncertainty involved with the use of such variables, there can be significant variation between anticipated and actual results that could have a material impact on our income tax accounts related to continuing operations. HAL 2021 FORM 10-K | 31 We have operations in more than 70 countries. Consequently, we are subject to the jurisdiction of a significant number of taxing authorities. The income earned in these various jurisdictions is taxed on differing bases, including net income actually earned, net income deemed earned, and revenue-based tax withholding. Our tax filings are routinely examined in the normal course of business by tax authorities. The final determination of our income tax liabilities involves the interpretation of local tax laws, tax treaties and related authorities in each jurisdiction, as well as the significant use of estimates and assumptions regarding the scope of future operations and results achieved, the timing and nature of income earned and expenditures incurred. The final determination of tax audits or changes in the operating environment, including changes in tax law and currency/repatriation controls, could impact the determination of our income tax liabilities for a tax year and have an adverse effect on our financial statements. Tax filings of our subsidiaries, unconsolidated affiliates and related entities are routinely examined in the normal course of business by tax authorities. These examinations may result in assessments of additional taxes, which we work to resolve with the tax authorities and through the judicial process. Predicting the outcome of disputed assessments involves some uncertainty. Factors such as the availability of settlement procedures, willingness of tax authorities to negotiate, and the operation and impartiality of judicial systems vary across the different tax jurisdictions and may significantly influence the ultimate outcome. We review the facts for each assessment, and then utilize assumptions and estimates to determine the most likely outcome and provide taxes, interest, and penalties, as needed based on this outcome. We provide for uncertain tax positions pursuant to current accounting standards, which prescribe a minimum recognition threshold and measurement methodology that a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return is required to meet before being recognized in the financial statements. The standards also provide guidance for derecognition classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure, and transition. Legal and investigation matters As discussed in Note 10 of our consolidated financial statements, we are subject to various legal and investigation matters arising in the ordinary course of business. As of December 31, 2021, we have accrued an estimate of the probable and estimable costs for the resolution of some of our legal and investigation matters, which is not material to our consolidated financial statements. For other matters for which the liability is not probable and reasonably estimable, we have not accrued any amounts. Attorneys in our legal department monitor and manage all claims filed against us and review all pending investigations. Generally, the estimate of probable costs related to these matters is developed in consultation with internal and outside legal counsel representing us. Our estimates are based upon an analysis of potential results, assuming a combination of litigation and settlement strategies. The accuracy of these estimates is impacted by, among other things, the complexity of the issues and the amount of due diligence we have been able to perform. We attempt to resolve these matters through settlements, mediation, and arbitration proceedings when possible. If the actual settlement costs, final judgments, or fines, after appeals, differ from our estimates, there may be a material adverse effect on our future financial results. We have in the past recorded significant adjustments to our initial estimates of these types of contingencies. Value of long-lived assets, including intangible assets and goodwill We carry a variety of long-lived assets on our balance sheet including property, plant and equipment, goodwill, and other intangibles. Impairment is the condition that exists when the carrying amount of a long-lived asset exceeds its fair value, and any impairment charge that we record reduces our operating income. Goodwill is the excess of the cost of an acquired entity over the net of the amounts assigned to assets acquired and liabilities assumed. We conduct impairment tests on goodwill annually, during the third quarter, or more frequently whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate an impairment may exist. We conduct impairment tests on long-lived assets, other than goodwill, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. When conducting an impairment test on long-lived assets, other than goodwill, we first group individual assets based on the lowest level for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows from other assets. This requires some judgment. We then compare estimated future undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the asset group to its carrying amount. If the undiscounted cash flows are less than the asset group’s carrying amount, we then determine the asset group's fair value by using a discounted cash flow analysis. This analysis is based on estimates such as management’s short-term and long-term forecast of operating performance, including revenue growth rates and expected profitability margins, estimates of the remaining useful life and service potential of the assets within the asset group, and a discount rate based on our weighted average cost of capital. An impairment loss is measured and recorded as the amount by which the asset group's carrying amount exceeds its fair value. See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of impairments and other charges. HAL 2021 FORM 10-K | 32 We perform our goodwill impairment assessment for each reporting unit, which is the same as our reportable segments, the Completion and Production division and the Drilling and Evaluation division, comparing the estimated fair value of each reporting unit to the reporting unit’s carrying value, including goodwill. We estimate the fair value for each reporting unit using a discounted cash flow analysis based on management’s short-term and long-term forecast of operating performance. This analysis includes significant assumptions regarding discount rates, revenue growth rates, expected profitability margins, forecasted capital expenditures, and the timing of expected future cash flows based on market conditions. If the estimated fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is not considered impaired. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, an impairment loss is measured and recorded. The impairment assessments discussed above incorporate inherent uncertainties, including projected commodity pricing, supply and demand for our services, and future market conditions, which are difficult to predict in volatile economic environments and could result in impairment charges in future periods if actual results materially differ from the estimated assumptions utilized in our forecasts. If market conditions deteriorate, including crude oil prices significantly declining and remaining at low levels for a sustained period of time, we could be required to record additional impairments of the carrying value of our long-lived assets in the future which could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. See Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements for our accounting policies related to long-lived assets. Allowance for credit losses We evaluate our global accounts receivable through a continuous process of assessing our portfolio on an individual customer and overall basis. This process consists of a thorough review of historical collection experience, current aging status of the customer accounts, financial condition of our customers, and whether the receivables involve retainages. We also consider the economic environment of our customers, both from a marketplace and geographic perspective, in evaluating the need for an allowance. Based on our review of these factors, we establish or adjust allowances for specific customers. This process involves judgment and estimation, and frequently involves significant dollar amounts. Accordingly, our results of operations can be affected by adjustments to the allowance due to actual write-offs that differ from estimated amounts. At December 31, 2021, our allowance for credit losses totaled $ 754 million, or 17.8% of notes and accounts receivable before the allowance. At December 31, 2020, our allowance for credit losses totaled $ 824 million, or 22.5% of notes and accounts receivable before the allowance. The allowance for credit losses in both years is primarily comprised of accounts receivable from our primary customer in Venezuela. A hypothetical 100 basis point change in our estimate of the collectability of our notes and accounts receivable balance as of December 31, 2021 would have resulted in a $42 million adjustment to 2021 total operating costs and expenses. See Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENT MARKET RISK We are exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. We selectively manage these exposures through the use of derivative instruments, including forward foreign exchange contracts, foreign exchange options, and interest rate swaps. The objective of our risk management strategy is to minimize the volatility from fluctuations in foreign currency and interest rates. We do not use derivative instruments for trading purposes. The counterparties to our forward contracts, options, and interest rate swaps are global commercial and investment banks. We use a sensitivity analysis model to measure the impact of potential adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. With respect to foreign exchange sensitivity, after consideration of the impact from our foreign forward contracts and options, a hypothetical 10% adverse change in the value of all our foreign currency positions relative to the United States dollar as of December 31, 2021 would result in a $83 million, pre-tax, loss for our net monetary assets denominated in currencies other than United States dollars. As of December 31, 2021, we did not have any interest rate swaps outstanding. There are certain limitations inherent in the sensitivity analysis presented, primarily due to the assumption that exchange rates and interest rates change instantaneously in an equally adverse fashion. In addition, the analyses are unable to reflect the complex market reactions that normally would arise from the market shifts modeled. While this is our best estimate of the impact of the various scenarios, these estimates should not be viewed as forecasts. For further information regarding foreign currency exchange risk, interest rate risk, and credit risk, see Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements. HAL 2021 FORM 10-K | 33 ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS We are subject to numerous environmental, legal, and regulatory requirements related to our operations worldwide. For information related to environmental matters, see Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements and "Part I, Item 1(a). “Risk Factors.” FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides safe harbor provisions for forward-looking information. Forward-looking information is based on projections and estimates, not historical information. Some statements in this Form 10-K are forward-looking and use words like “may,” “may not,” “believe,” “do not believe,” “plan,” “estimate,” “intend,” “expect,” “do not expect,” “anticipate,” “do not anticipate,” “should,” “likely,” and other expressions. We may also provide oral or written forward-looking information in other materials we release to the public. Forward-looking information involves risk and uncertainties and reflects our best judgment based on current information. Our results of operations can be affected by inaccurate assumptions we make or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. In addition, other factors may affect the accuracy of our forward-looking information. As a result, no forward-looking information can be guaranteed. Actual events and the results of our operations may vary materially. We do not assume any responsibility to publicly update any of our forward-looking statements regardless of whether factors change as a result of new information, future events or for any other reason. You should review any additional disclosures we make in our press releases and Forms 10-K, 10-Q, and 8-K filed with or furnished to the SEC. We also suggest that you listen to our quarterly earnings release conference calls with financial analysts. HAL 2021 FORM 10-K | 34