********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Our business activities and the value of our securities are subject to significant risks, including the risk factors described below.  These risk factors could negatively affect our operations, financial condition, liquidity and results of operations, and as a result, holders and purchasers of our securities could lose part or all of their investments.  It is possible that additional risks relating to our securities may be described in a prospectus supplement if we issue securities in the future. Market and Third-Party Risks Our business and operating results are highly dependent on the market prices of crude oil, NGL and natural gas, which can be very volatile. Our estimated proved reserves, revenue, operating cash flows, operating margins, liquidity, financial condition and future earnings are highly dependent on the benchmark market prices of crude oil, NGL and natural gas, and our associated realized price differentials, which are volatile and influenced by numerous factors beyond our control.  The major foreign oil producing countries, including members of OPEC, may exert considerable influence over the supply and price of crude oil and refined petroleum products.  Their ability to agree on a common policy on rates of production and other matters may have a significant impact on the oil markets.  Other factors include, but are not limited to: worldwide and domestic supplies of and demand for crude oil, NGL and natural gas; political conditions and events (including weather, instability, changes in governments, armed conflict, economic sanctions and outbreaks of infectious diseases, such as COVID-19) around the world and in particular in crude oil or natural gas producing regions; the cost of exploring for, developing and producing crude oil, NGL and natural gas; the price, availability of and demand for alternative fuels or other forms of energy; the effect of energy conservation and environmental protection efforts; and overall economic conditions globally (including inflation, slower growth or recession, higher interest rates, supply chain constraints, and consequences associated with the ongoing invasion of Ukraine by Russia).  The sentiment of commodities trading markets as well as other supply and demand factors may also influence the selling prices of crude oil, NGL and natural gas.  Average benchmark prices for 2022 were $94.33 per barrel for WTI (2021: $68.08; 2020: $39.34) and $99.04 per barrel for Brent (2021: $70.95; 2020: $43.21).  In order to manage the potential volatility of cash flows and credit requirements, we maintain significant bank credit facilities.  An inability to access, renew or replace such credit facilities or access other sources of funding as they mature would negatively impact our liquidity.  Furthermore, from time to time we have entered into, and may in the future enter into or modify, commodity price hedging arrangements to manage commodity price volatility.  These arrangements may limit potential upside from commodity price increases, or expose us to additional risks, such as counterparty credit risk, which could adversely impact our cash flow, liquidity or financial condition. We do not always control decisions made under joint operating agreements and the parties under such agreements may fail to meet their obligations. We conduct many of our E&P operations through joint operating agreements with other parties under which we may not control decisions, either because we do not have a controlling interest or are not operator under the agreement.  There is risk that these parties may at any time have economic, business, or legal interests or goals that are inconsistent with ours, and therefore decisions may be made which are not what we believe is in our best interest.  Moreover, parties to these agreements may be unable to meet their economic or other obligations and we may be required to fulfill those obligations alone.  For example, in June 2021, the U.S. Bankruptcy Court approved the bankruptcy plan for Fieldwood Energy LLC (Fieldwood) which includes transferring abandonment obligations of Fieldwood to us and other predecessors in title of certain of its assets, who are jointly and severally liable for the obligations.  See Note 8, Asset Retirement Obligations in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements .  As a result, actions of our contractual counterparties may adversely affect the value of our investments and result in increased costs or liabilities. Our industry is highly competitive and many of our competitors are larger and have greater resources and more diverse portfolios than we have. The petroleum industry is highly competitive and very capital intensive.  We encounter competition from numerous companies, including acquiring rights to explore for crude oil and natural gas.  To a lesser extent, we are also in competition with producers of alternative fuels or other forms of energy, including wind, solar and electric power, and in the future, could face increasing competition due to the development and adoption of new technologies.  Many competitors, including national oil companies, are larger and have substantially greater resources to acquire and develop oil and gas assets, or may have established strategic relationships in areas we operate, or may be willing to incur a higher level of risk than we are willing to incur.  In addition, competition for drilling services, technical expertise and equipment may affect the availability of technical personnel and drilling rigs, resulting in increased capital and operating costs.  Many of our competitors have a more diverse portfolio of assets, which may minimize the impact of adverse events occurring at any one location. Our business and operations were and could in the future be adversely affected by an epidemic or outbreak of an infectious disease, such as COVID-19 or other similar public health developments. We face risks related to epidemics, outbreaks or other public health events, or the threat thereof, that are outside of our control, and could significantly disrupt our business and operational plans and adversely affect our business and operating results. For example, COVID-19 and related actions taken by governments and businesses, including voluntary and mandatory quarantines and travel and other restrictions, significantly impacted economic activity.  As a result of COVID-19, our operations, and those of our business partners, service companies and suppliers, have experienced disruptions, delays or temporary suspensions of operations, temporary inaccessibility or closures of facilities, supply chain issues and workforce impacts from illness, school closures and other community response measures.  We also are subject to regulatory changes, litigation risk and possible loss contingencies related to COVID-19, including with respect to commercial contracts, employee matters and insurance arrangements.  Furthermore, there is no certainty that the health and safety measures we 18 implement will be sufficient to mitigate the risks, including infection of key employees and our ability to perform certain functions, posed by COVID-19, its variants or another epidemic or outbreak of an infectious disease. In addition to the global health concerns, an epidemic or outbreak of an infectious disease could negatively affect the U.S. and global economy and the demand for oil and natural gas.  For example, COVID-19 and concerns regarding the global spread of its variants negatively impacted the domestic and international demand for crude oil and natural gas and contributed to price volatility and adversely affected the demand for and marketability of crude oil, natural gas and NGL.  Containment measures implemented to mitigate the spread of COVID-19 and its variants lead to adoption of certain behavioral changes, such as reduced travel and enhanced work-from-home policies, which resulted in further reductions in demand for and consumption of energy commodities.  We may experience decreases in production and proved reserves, additional asset impairments, and other accounting charges if demand for crude oil, natural gas and NGL decreases as a result of a future or worsening outbreak of an infectious disease, such as COVID-19 and its variants.  The extent to which such an occurrence may negatively affect our operating results is uncertain and depends on actions taken by authorities to contain it or treat its impact, all of which are beyond our control. Operational and Strategic Risks If we fail to successfully increase our reserves, our future crude oil and natural gas production will be adversely impacted. We own or have access to a finite amount of oil and gas reserves, which will be depleted over time.  Replacement of oil and gas production and reserves, including proved undeveloped reserves, is subject to successful exploration drilling, development activities, and enhanced recovery programs.  Therefore, future oil and gas production is dependent on technical success in finding and developing additional hydrocarbon reserves.  Exploration activity involves the interpretation of seismic and other geological and geophysical data, which does not always successfully predict the presence of commercial quantities of hydrocarbons.  Drilling risks include unexpected adverse conditions, irregularities in pressure or formations, equipment failure, blowouts and weather interruptions.  Future developments may be affected by unforeseen reservoir conditions, which negatively affect recovery factors or flow rates.  Similar risks may be encountered in the production of oil and gas on properties acquired from others.  In addition, replacing reserves and developing future production are also influenced by the price of crude oil and natural gas and costs of drilling and development activities.  Lower crude oil and natural gas prices may reduce capital available for our exploration and development activities, render certain development projects uneconomic or delay their completion, and result in negative revisions to existing reserves while increasing drilling and development costs could negatively affect expected economic returns. There are inherent uncertainties in estimating quantities of proved reserves and discounted future net cash flows, and actual quantities may be lower than estimated. Numerous uncertainties exist in estimating quantities of proved reserves and future net revenues from those reserves.  Actual future production, oil and gas prices, revenues, taxes, capital expenditures, operating expenses, and quantities of recoverable oil and gas reserves may vary substantially from those assumed in the estimates and could materially affect the estimated quantities of our proved reserves and the related future net revenues.  In addition, reserve estimates may be subject to downward or upward changes based on production performance, purchases or sales of properties, results of future development, changes in prevailing oil and gas prices, production sharing contracts, which may decrease reserves as crude oil and natural gas prices increase, and other factors. Catastrophic and other events, whether naturally occurring or man-made, may materially affect our operations and financial condition. Our oil and gas operations are subject to numerous risks and hazards inherent to operating in the crude oil and natural gas industry, including catastrophic events, which may damage or destroy assets, interrupt operations, result in personal injury and have other significant adverse effects.  These events include unexpected drilling conditions, pressure conditions or irregularities in reservoir formations, equipment malfunctions or failures, derailments, fires, explosions, blowouts, oil releases, power outages, cratering, pipeline interruptions and ruptures, severe weather, such as hurricanes, floods, freezes and heat waves or droughts, geological events, shortages in availability of skilled labor, cyber-attacks or health measures related to outbreaks of infectious diseases, such as COVID-19.  We maintain insurance coverage against many, but not all, potential losses and liabilities in amounts we deem prudent, including for property and casualty losses.  Some forms of insurance may be unavailable in the future or be available only on terms that are deemed economically unacceptable.  Moreover, there can be no assurance that such insurance will adequately protect us against liability from all potential consequences and damages.  For example, we are self-insured against physical damage to property and liability related to windstorms.  In 2022, there was no significant hurricane-related downtime whereas in 2021, hurricane-related downtime reduced net production by 4,000 boepd and hurricane related maintenance and repair costs were approximately $7 million.  In addition, the frequency and severity of weather conditions and other meteorological phenomena, including storms, droughts, extreme temperatures, and changes in temperature and precipitation patterns that impact our business activities, may also be impacted by the effects of climate change.  Energy needs could increase or decrease as a result of extreme weather conditions depending on the duration and magnitude of any such climate change.  Increased energy use due to weather changes may require us to invest in order to serve increased demand or create operational challenges.  A decrease in energy use due to weather changes may affect our financial condition through decreased revenues.  To the extent the frequency of extreme weather events increases, this could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Significant time delays between the estimated and actual occurrence of critical events associated with development projects may result in material negative economic consequences. As part of our business, we are involved in large development projects, the completion of which may be delayed beyond what was originally planned.  Such examples include, but are not limited to, delays in 19 receiving necessary approvals from project members or regulatory or other government agencies, timely access to necessary equipment, services or resources, availability of necessary personnel, construction delays, unfavorable weather conditions, equipment failures, and outbreaks of infectious diseases, such as COVID-19.  These delays could impact our future results of operations and cash flows. An inability to secure personnel, drilling rigs, equipment, supplies and other required services or to retain key employees may result in material negative economic consequences. We are dependent on oilfield service companies for items including drilling rigs, equipment, supplies and skilled labor.  The availability and cost of drilling rigs, equipment, supplies and skilled labor will fluctuate over time given the cyclical nature of the E&P industry.  Concerns over global economic conditions, inflation, supply chain disruptions, labor shortages, and other factors, each of which are beyond our control, contribute to increased economic uncertainty for us and our suppliers.  As a result, we may encounter difficulties in obtaining required services or could face an increase in cost, which may impact our ability to run our operations and deliver projects on time with the potential for material negative economic consequences.  In addition, difficulty in recruiting and retaining adequate numbers of experienced technical personnel could negatively impact our ability to deliver on our strategic goals.  Our future success also depends upon the continued service of key members of our senior management team, who play an important role in developing and implementing our strategy.  An inability to recruit and retain adequate numbers of experienced technical and professional personnel in the necessary locations or the loss or departure of key members of senior management may prevent us from executing our strategy in full or, in part, which could negatively impact our business. Disruption, failure or cyber security breaches affecting or targeting computer, telecommunications systems, and infrastructure used by the Corporation or our business partners may materially impact our business and operations. Computers and telecommunication systems are an integral part of our exploration, development and production activities and the activities of our business partners.  We use these systems to analyze and store financial and operating data and to communicate within our corporation and with outside business partners.  Our reliance on technology has increased due to the increased use of remote communications and other work-from-home practices in response to COVID-19.  Technical system flaws, power loss, cyber security risks, including cyber or phishing-attacks, unauthorized access, malicious software, data privacy breaches by employees or others with authorized access, ransomware, and other cyber security issues could compromise our computer and telecommunications systems or those of our business partners and result in disruptions to our business operations or the access, disclosure or loss of our data and proprietary information.  In addition, computers control oil and gas production, processing equipment, and distribution systems globally and are necessary to deliver our production to market.  A disruption, failure or a cyber breach of these operating systems, or of the networks and infrastructure on which they rely, could damage critical production, distribution and/or storage assets, delay or prevent delivery to markets, and make it difficult or impossible to accurately account for production and settle transactions.  As a result, any such disruption, failure or cyber breach and any resulting investigation or remediation costs, litigation or regulatory action could have a material adverse impact on our cash flows and results of operations, reputation and competitiveness.  We routinely experience attempts by external parties to penetrate and attack our networks and systems.  Although such attempts to date have not resulted in any material breaches, disruptions, financial loss, or loss of business-critical information, our systems and procedures for protecting against such attacks and mitigating such risks may prove to be insufficient in the future and such attacks could have an adverse impact on our business and operations, including damage to our reputation and competitiveness, remediation costs, litigation or regulatory actions.  In addition, as technologies evolve and cyber security attacks become more sophisticated, we may incur significant costs to upgrade or enhance our security measures to protect against such attacks and we may face difficulties in fully anticipating or implementing adequate preventive measures or mitigating potential harm. Financial Risks We have substantial capital requirements, and we may not be able to obtain needed financing on satisfactory terms. The exploration, development and production of crude oil and natural gas involve substantial costs, which may not be fully funded from operations.  All three major credit rating agencies that rate our debt have assigned an investment grade rating.  Although currently we do not have any borrowings under our long-term credit facility, a ratings downgrade, rising interest rates, continued weakness in the oil and gas industry or negative outcomes within commodity and financial markets could adversely impact our access to capital markets by increasing the costs of financing, or by impacting our ability to obtain financing on satisfactory terms.  In addition, a ratings downgrade may require that we issue letters of credit or provide other forms of collateral under certain contractual requirements.  Environmental concerns and other factors have led to lower oil and gas representation in certain key equity market indices and may increase our costs to access the equity capital markets.  Any inability to access capital markets could adversely impact our financial adaptability and our ability to execute our strategy. We engage in risk management transactions designed to mitigate commodity price volatility and other risks that may impede our ability to benefit from commodity price increases and can expose us to similar potential counterparty credit risk as amounts due from the sale of hydrocarbons. We may enter into commodity price hedging arrangements to protect us from commodity price declines.  These arrangements may, depending on the instruments used and the level of additional hedges involved, limit any potential upside from commodity price increases.  As with accounts receivable from the sale of hydrocarbons, we may be exposed to potential economic loss should a counterparty be unable or unwilling to perform their obligations under the terms of a 20 hedging agreement.  In addition, we are exposed to risks related to changes in interest rates and foreign currency values, and may engage in hedging activities to mitigate related volatility. Regulatory, Legal and Environmental Risks Our oil and gas operations are subject to environmental risks and environmental, health and safety laws and regulations that can result in significant costs and liabilities. Our oil and gas operations are subject to environmental risks such as oil spills, produced water spills, gas leaks and ruptures and discharges of substances or gases that could expose us to substantial liability for pollution or other environmental damage.  Our operations are also subject to numerous U.S. federal, state, local and foreign environmental, health and safety laws and regulations.  Non-compliance with these laws and regulations may subject us to administrative, civil or criminal penalties, remedial clean-ups, natural resource damages and other liabilities.  In addition, increasingly stringent environmental regulations have resulted and will likely continue to result in higher capital expenditures and operating expenses for us.  Similarly, we have material legal obligations to dismantle, remove and abandon production facilities and wells that will occur many years in the future, in most cases.  These estimates may be impacted by future changes in regulations, solvency of subsequent owners and partners and other uncertainties. Concerns have been raised in certain jurisdictions where we have operations concerning the safety and environmental impact of the drilling and development of shale oil and gas resources, particularly hydraulic fracturing, water usage, flaring of associated natural gas and air emissions.  While we believe that these operations can be conducted safely and with minimal impact on the environment, regulatory bodies are responding to these concerns and may impose moratoriums and new regulations on such drilling operations that would likely have the effect of prohibiting or delaying such operations and increasing their cost. Climate change, sustainability and other ESG initiatives may result in significant operational changes and expenditures, reduced demand for our products and adversely affect our business. We recognize that climate change and sustainability is a growing global environmental concern.  Continuing political and social attention to the issue of climate change and sustainability has resulted in both existing and pending international agreements and national, regional or local legislation and regulatory measures to limit GHG emissions.  These agreements and measures may require, or could result in future legislation and regulatory measures that require, significant equipment modifications, operational changes, taxes, or purchase of emission credits to reduce emission of GHGs from our operations, which may result in substantial capital expenditures and compliance, operating, maintenance and remediation costs.  For example, the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (“IRA”) includes a methane emissions reduction program for petroleum and natural gas systems, which requires the EPA to impose a “waste emissions charge” on excess methane emissions from certain natural gas and oil sources that are required to report under EPA’s Greenhouse Gas Reporting Program beginning January 1, 2024 and also provides significant funding and incentives for research and development of competing low carbon energy production methods.  In addition, such legislation, regulations and initiatives could impact demand as our production is sold to third parties that produce petroleum fuels, which through normal end user consumption result in the emission of GHGs. We are prioritizing sustainable energy practices to further reduce our carbon footprint while at the same time remaining a successful operating public company.  However, various key stakeholders, including our stockholders, employees, suppliers, customers, local communities and others, may have differing approaches to climate change initiatives.  If we do not successfully manage expectations across these varied stakeholder interests, it could erode our stakeholders' trust and thereby affect our reputation.  Shareholder activism has been recently increasing in our industry, and stockholders may attempt to effect changes to our business or governance, whether by shareholder proposals, public campaigns, proxy solicitations or otherwise.  In addition, certain financial institutions, institutional investors and other sources of capital have begun to limit or eliminate their investment in oil and gas activities due to concerns about climate change, which could make it more difficult to finance our business.  We continue to focus on developing our ESG practices, and as voluntary and regulatory ESG disclosure standards and policies continue to evolve, we have expanded and expect to further expand our public disclosures in these areas.  Such disclosures may reflect aspirational goals, targets, cost estimates and other expectations and assumptions, including over long timelines, which aspirational goals, targets, cost estimates, and other expectations and assumptions are necessarily uncertain and may not be realized.  Failure to realize or timely achieve progress on such aspirational goals, targets, cost estimates, and other expectations or assumptions may adversely impact us. Furthermore, as a result of heightened public awareness and attention to climate change and sustainability as well as continued regulatory initiatives to reduce the use of petroleum fuels, demand for crude oil and other hydrocarbons may be reduced, which may have an adverse effect on our sales volumes, revenues and margins.  The imposition and enforcement of stringent GHG emissions reduction requirements could severely and adversely impact the oil and gas industry and therefore significantly reduce the value of our business.  Increasing attention to climate change risks and sustainability has resulted in governmental investigations, and public and private litigation, which could increase our costs or otherwise adversely affect our business.  For example, beginning in 2017, certain states, municipalities and private associations in California, Delaware, Maryland, Rhode Island and South Carolina separately filed lawsuits against oil, gas and coal producers, including us, for alleged damages purportedly caused by climate change.  Such actions could adversely impact our business by distracting management and other personnel from their primary responsibilities, require us to incur increased costs, and/or result in reputational harm. We are subject to changing laws and regulations and other governmental actions that can significantly and adversely affect our business. Political or regulatory developments and governmental actions, including federal, state, local, territorial and foreign 21 laws and regulations may adversely affect our operations and those of our counterparties with whom we have contracted, which may affect our financial results.  These actions could result in tax increases retroactively through tax claims or prospectively through changes to applicable statutory tax rates, modification of the tax base, or imposition of new tax types.  For example, the IRA includes a 15% book-income alternative minimum tax on corporations with average adjusted financial statement income over $1 billion for any three year period ending with 2022 or later and a 1% excise tax on the fair market value of stock that is repurchased by publicly traded U.S. corporations effective in taxable years beginning after December 31, 2022.  The impact of the excise tax provision will be dependent on the extent of share repurchases made in future periods.  We continue to evaluate the corporate alternative minimum tax and its potential impact on our future U.S. tax expense, cash taxes, and effective tax rate, as well as any other impacts the IRA may have on our financial position and results of operations. Additionally, governmental actions could include post-production deductions from royalty payments; limitations or prohibitions on the sales of new oil and gas leases or extensions on existing oil and gas leases; adverse court decisions with respect to the sale of new and existing oil and gas leases; expropriation or nationalization of property; mandatory government participation, cancellation or amendment of contract rights; imposition of capital controls or blocking of funds; changes in import and export regulations; the imposition of tariffs; and anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws.  In recent years, proposals for limitations on access to oil and gas exploration and development opportunities and related litigation have grown in certain areas and may include efforts to reduce access to public and private lands; restriction of exploration and production activities within government-owned and other lands; delaying or canceling permits for drilling or pipeline construction; restrictions or changes to existing pipeline easements; limiting or banning industry techniques such as hydraulic fracturing and/or adding restrictions on the use of water and associated disposal; imposition of set-backs on oil and gas sites; reduction of sulfur content in bunker fuel; delaying or denying air-quality or siting permits; advocating for increased regulations, punitive taxation, or citizen ballot initiatives or moratoriums on industry activity; and the use of social media channels to cause reputational harm.  Costs associated with responding to these anti-development efforts or complying with any new legal or regulatory requirements could significantly and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Political instability globally and in areas where we operate can adversely affect our business. Political instability and civil unrest have affected and may continue to affect the oil and gas markets generally.  Some international areas are politically less stable than other areas and may be subject to civil unrest, conflict, insurgency, corruption, security risks and labor unrest.  Political instability in areas where we operate may expose our operations to increased risks, including increased difficulty in obtaining required permits and government approvals, enforcing our agreements in those jurisdictions and potential adverse actions by local government authorities.  The invasion of Ukraine by Russia in February 2022 has led to disruption, instability, and volatility in global markets and industries, including the oil and gas markets.  The U.S. government and other foreign governments imposed severe economic sanctions and export controls against Russia, certain regions of Ukraine and particular entities and individuals, and may impose additional sanctions and controls.  To date, we have not experienced a material impact to operations or the consolidated financial statements as a result of the invasion of Ukraine; however, we will continue to monitor for events that could materially impact us or our industry.  Furthermore, the threat of terrorism around the world also poses additional risks to our operations and the operations of the oil and gas industry in general.  In addition, geographic territorial border disputes may affect our business in certain areas, such as the border dispute between Guyana and Venezuela over a portion of the Stabroek Block. One of our subsidiaries is the general partner of a publicly traded limited partnership, Hess Midstream LP.  The responsibilities associated with being a general partner expose us to a broader range of legal liabilities .  Our control of Hess Midstream LP bestows upon us additional duties and obligations including, but not limited to, the obligations associated with managing potential conflicts of interests and additional reporting requirements from the Securities and Exchange Commission.  These heightened duties expose us to additional potential for legal claims that may have a material negative economic impact on our stockholders.  Moreover, these increased duties may lead to an increase in compliance costs.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion should be read together with the Consolidated Financial Statement s and the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements , which are included in this Form 10-K in Item 8, and the information set forth in under Item 1A. The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations omits certain discussions of our financial condition and results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared with the year ended December 31, 2020, which can be found in in our 2021 Annual Report on Form 10-K, which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 1, 2022, and such comparisons are incorporated herein by reference. Index Overview Hess Corporation is a global E&P company engaged in exploration, development, production, transportation, purchase and sale of crude oil, natural gas liquids, and natural gas with production operations located in the United States, Guyana, the Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development Area (JDA) and Malaysia.  We conduct exploration activities primarily offshore Guyana, in the U.S. Gulf of Mexico, and offshore Suriname and Canada.  At the Stabroek Block (Hess 30%), offshore Guyana, we and our partners have discovered a significant resource base and are executing a multi-phased development of the block.  We currently plan to have six FPSOs with an aggregate expected production capacity of more than 1.2 million gross bopd on the Stabroek Block in 2027, and the potential for up to ten FPSOs to develop the current discovered recoverable resource base. Our Midstream operating segment, which is comprised of Hess Corporation’s approximate 41% consolidated ownership interest in Hess Midstream LP at December 31, 2022 , provides fee-based services, including gathering, compressing and processing natural gas and fractionating NGL; gathering, terminaling, loading and transporting crude oil and NGL; storing and terminaling propane, and water handling services primarily in the Bakken shale play in the Williston Basin area of North Dakota. Climate Change, Energy Transition and Our Strategy We believe climate risks can and should be addressed while at the same time meeting the growing demand for affordable and secure energy, which is essential to ensure a just and orderly energy transition that aligns with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals.  The IEA's 2022 World Energy Outlook provides three scenarios of global energy demand in 2040 based on varying levels of global response to climate change.  Under all of the IEA scenarios, oil and natural gas are expected to be needed for decades to come and we expect that significant investment will be required to meet the world’s projected growing energy needs, both in renewable energy sources and in oil and gas. Our strategy is to grow our resource base, have a low cost of supply and sustain cash flow growth.  Our strategy aligns with the energy transition needed to reach the energy-related Sustainable Development Goals of the United Nations.  Our commitment to sustainability starts with our Board of Directors and senior management and is reinforced throughout our organization.  Our Board of Directors, led by its Environmental, Health and Safety Committee, is actively engaged in overseeing Hess’ sustainability practices so that sustainability risks and opportunities are taken into account when making strategic decisions.  Our Board’s Compensation and Management Development Committee has tied executive compensation to advancing our environmental, health and safety goals.  We also have an executive led task force to guide our medium and longer term climate strategy. We have five year GHG reduction targets for 2025, which are to reduce operated Scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions intensity by approximately 50% and methane emissions intensity by approximately 50%, both from 2017 levels.  In January 2022, we announced our plan to reduce routine flaring at Hess operated assets to zero by the end of 2025.  In December 2022, we announced an agreement with the Government of Guyana to purchase 37.5 million REDD+ carbon credits, including current and future issuances, for a minimum of $750 million from 2022 through 2032 to prevent deforestation and support sustainable development in Guyana.  This agreement adds to the Corporation's ongoing emissions reduction efforts and is an important part of our commitment to achieve net zero Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions on a net equity basis by 2050. 25 Our business planning includes actions we expect to undertake to continue reducing our carbon footprint consistent with our targets.  We also conduct annual scenario planning as a methodology to assess our portfolio’s resilience to differing scenarios of energy supply and demand over the longer term, and to inform our understanding of future risks and opportunities in relation to the potential evolution of energy demand, energy mix, the emergence of new technologies, and possible changes by policymakers with respect to greenhouse gas emissions and climate change. 2022 Return of Capital Highlights and 2023 Outlook Following the startup of the Liza Phase 2 project in February 2022, we repaid the remaining $500 million outstanding under our $1.0 billion term loan, and in March 2022, we announced a 50% increase to our quarterly dividend on common stock.  In 2022, we repurchased approximately 5.4 million shares of common stock for $650 million. Our E&P capital and exploratory expenditures are projected to be approximately $3.7 billion in 2023, up from $2.7 billion in 2022.  Capital investment for our Midstream operations is expected to be approximately $225 million, compared with $232 million in 2022.  Oil and gas net production in 2023 is forecast to be in the range of 355,000 boepd to 365,000 boepd, up from 327,000 boepd in 2022, pro forma for assets sold. For 2023, we have hedged 80,000 bopd with WTI put options with an average monthly floor price of $70 per barrel, and 10,000 bopd with Brent put options with an average monthly floor price of $75 per barrel. Consolidated Results Net income attributable to Hess Corporation was $2,096 million in 2022 compared with $559 million in 2021.  Excluding items affecting comparability of earnings between periods summarized on page , adjusted net income was $2,176 million in 2022 compared with $677 million in 2021.  Net production averaged 344,000 boepd in 2022 and 315,000 boepd in 2021.  The average realized crude oil price, including the effect of hedging, was $85.76 per barrel in 2022 and $60.08 per barrel in 2021.  Total proved reserves were 1,256 million boe and 1,309 million boe at December 31, 2022 and December 31, 2021, respectively. Significant 2022 Activities The following is an update of significant E&P activities during 2022: E&P assets: • In North Dakota, net production from the Bakken shale play averaged 154,000 boepd in 2022 (2021: 156,000 boepd).  Net production was lower in 2022 primarily due to unplanned production shut-ins caused by severe winter weather partially offset by increased wells on-line.  We drilled 78 wells and brought 69 wells on production in 2022, bringing the total operated production wells to 1,664 at December 31, 2022.  Prior to COVID-19, we were operating six rigs in the Bakken, but reduced the rig count to one in May 2020 in response to the sharp decline in crude oil prices.  We added a second operated rig in the Bakken in February 2021, a third operated rig in September 2021 and a fourth operated rig in July 2022.  During 2023, we plan to operate four rigs, drill approximately 110 wells and bring approximately 110 wells on production.  We forecast net production from the Bakken to be in the range of 165,000 boepd to 170,000 boepd in 2023 . • In the Gulf of Mexico, net production averaged 31,000 boepd in 2022 (2021: 45,000 boepd).  Net production was lower in 2022 primarily due to field decline and unplanned downtime at the Tubular Bells, Penn State and Llano Fields.  For 2023, net production from the Gulf of Mexico is expected to be approximately 30,000 boepd. • At the Stabroek Block (Hess 30%), offshore Guyana, net production from the Liza Destiny and Unity FPSOs totaled 78,000 bopd in 2022 (2021: 30,000 bopd).  The Liza Unity FPSO, which commenced production in February 2022, reached its production capacity of approximately 220,000 gross bopd in July 2022. In the third quarter of 2022, we used the remainder of our previously generated Guyana net operating loss carryforwards and started incurring a current income tax liability.  Pursuant to the contractual arrangements of the petroleum agreement, a portion of gross production from the block, separate from the joint venture partners' (Co-Venturers) cost oil and profit oil entitlement, is used to satisfy the Co-Venturers’ income tax liability.  This portion of gross production, referred to as tax barrels, is recognized as Co-Venturer production volumes and estimated proved reserves.  Net production from Guyana in 2022 included 7,000 bopd of tax barrels (2021: 0 bopd).  For 2023, we forecast net production to be approximately 100,000 bopd, which includes approximately 10,000 bopd of tax barrels. The third development, Payara, was sanctioned in 2020 and will utilize the Prosperity FPSO, which will have an expected production capacity of approximately 220,000 gross bopd, with first production expected by the end of 2023.  Ten drill centers with a total of 41 wells are planned, including 20 production wells and 21 injection wells. A fourth development, Yellowtail, was sanctioned in April 2022 and will utilize the ONE GUYANA FPSO with an expected production capacity of approximately 250,000 gross bopd, with first production expected in 2025.  Six drill centers are planned with up to 26 production wells and 25 injection wells. 26 A fifth development, Uaru, was submitted to the Government of Guyana for approval in the fourth quarter of 2022.  Pending government approvals and project sanctioning, the project is expected to have a production capacity of approximately 250,000 gross bopd, with first oil anticipated at the end of 2026. In addition to the first five developments, planning is underway for additional FPSOs.  The ultimate sizing and order of these potential developments will be a function of further exploration and appraisal drilling. In 2022, the operator drilled a total of ten successful exploration and appraisal wells that encountered hydrocarbons and one unsuccessful exploration well, Banjo-1, for which the well costs were expensed.  Subsequent to December 31, 2022, the operator completed one successful exploration well that encountered hydrocarbons, and one unsuccessful exploration well, Fish/Tarpon-1, for which well costs incurred through December 31, 2022 were expensed.  See Note 20, Subsequent Events in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements . In 2023, the operator plans to utilize six drillships to drill approximately ten exploration and appraisal wells in addition to development wells for the sanctioned developments. • In the Gulf of Thailand, net production from Block A‑18 of the JDA averaged 38,000 boepd in 2022 (2021: 36,000 boepd), including contribution from unitized acreage in Malaysia, while net production from North Malay Basin averaged 26,000 boepd in 2022 (2021: 25,000 boepd). In 2023, we forecast net production from North Malay Basin and JDA combined to be in the range of 60,000 boepd to 65,000 boepd. • In Libya, we completed the sale of our interest in the Waha Concession in November for net proceeds of $150 million and recognized a pre-tax gain of $76 million ($76 million after income taxes).  Net production from Libya was 17,000 boepd in 2022. The following is an update of significant Midstream activities during 2022: • In April 2022, Hess Midstream completed an underwritten public offering of approximately 10.2 million Class A shares held by Hess and GIP.  As a result of this transaction, Hess received net proceeds of $146 million. • Concurrent with the April 2022 public offering, HESM Opco repurchased approximately 13.6 million Class B units held by Hess and GIP for $400 million, with Hess receiving net proceeds of $200 million.  HESM Opco issued $400 million in aggregate principal amount of 5.500% fixed-rate senior unsecured notes due 2030 in a private offering to repay borrowings under its revolving credit facility used to finance the repurchase. 27 Liquidity and Capital and Exploratory Expenditures At December 31, 2022, cash and cash equivalents were $2,486 million (2021: $2,713 million) and consolidated debt was $8,281 million (2021: $8,458 million), which includes Hess Midstream debt that is nonrecourse to Hess Corporation of $2,886 million at December 31, 2022 (2021: $2,564 million). Capital and exploratory expenditures were as follows (in millions): (a) Other includes our interests in Libya (sold in November 2022) and Denmark (sold in August 2021), and certain non-producing countries. In 2023, we project our E&P capital and exploratory expenditures will be approximately $3.7 billion, of which more than 80% will be allocated to Guyana and the Bakken, and Midstream capital expenditures to be approximately $225 million. Consolidated Results of Operations Results by Segment: The after-tax income (loss) by major operating activity is summarized below: (a) Calculated as net income (loss) attributable to Hess Corporation divided by the weighted average number of diluted shares. In the following discussion and elsewhere in this report, the financial effects of certain transactions are disclosed on an after-tax basis.  Management reviews segment earnings on an after-tax basis and uses after-tax amounts in its review of variances in segment earnings.  Management believes that after-tax amounts are a preferable method of explaining variances in earnings, since they show the entire effect of a transaction rather than only the pre-tax amount.  After-tax amounts are determined by applying the income tax rate in each tax jurisdiction to pre-tax amounts. 28 Items Affecting Comparability of Earnings Between Periods: The following table summarizes items of income (expense) that are included in net income (loss) and affect comparability of earnings between periods.  The items in the table below are explained on pages through . The following table presents the pre-tax amount of items affecting comparability of income (expense) by financial statement line item in the Statement of Consolidated Income on page .  The items in the table below are explained on pages through . Reconciliations of GAAP and Non-GAAP Measures: The following table reconciles reported net income (loss) attributable to Hess Corporation and adjusted net income (loss) attributable to Hess Corporation: The following table reconciles reported net cash provided by (used in) operating activities and net cash provided by (used in) operating activities before changes in operating assets and liabilities: Adjusted net income (loss) attributable to Hess Corporation is a non-GAAP financial measure, which we define as reported net income (loss) attributable to Hess Corporation excluding items identified as affecting comparability of earnings between periods, which are summarized on pages through .  Management uses adjusted net income (loss) to evaluate the Corporation’s operating performance and believes that investors’ understanding of our performance is enhanced by disclosing this measure, which excludes certain items that management believes are not directly related to ongoing operations and are not indicative of future business trends and operations. Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities before changes in operating assets and liabilities presented in this report is a non-GAAP measure, which we define as reported net cash provided by (used in) operating activities excluding changes in operating assets and liabilities.  Management uses net cash provided by (used in) operating activities before changes in operating assets and liabilities to evaluate the Corporation’s ability to internally fund capital expenditures, pay dividends and service debt and believes that 29 investors’ understanding of our ability to generate cash to fund these items is enhanced by disclosing this measure, which excludes working capital and other movements that may distort assessment of our performance between periods. These measures are not, and should not be viewed as, substitutes for GAAP net income (loss) and net cash provided by (used in) operating activities. Comparison of Results Exploration and Production Following is a summarized statement of income for our E&P operations: Excluding the E&P items affecting comparability of earnings between periods in the table on page , the changes in E&P results are primarily attributable to changes in selling prices, production and sales volumes, marketing expenses, cash operating costs, Midstream tariffs, DD&A expense, exploration expenses and income taxes, as discussed below. 30 Selling Prices: Average worldwide realized crude oil selling prices, including hedging, were 43% higher in 2022 compared with the prior year, primarily due to the increase in Brent and WTI crude oil prices.  In addition, realized worldwide selling prices for NGL increased in 2022 by 15% and worldwide natural gas prices increased in 2022 by 23%, compared with the prior year.  In total, higher realized selling prices improved after-tax results by approximately $1,490 million, compared with 2021.  Our average selling prices were as follows: (a) Selling prices in the United States and Guyana are adjusted for certain processing and distribution fees included in Marketing expenses.  Excluding these fees worldwide selling prices for 2022 would be $89.50 per barrel for crude oil (including hedging) (2021: $64.25 ; 2020: $47.54), $97.89 per barrel for crude oil (excluding hedging) (2021: $68.07; 2020: $38.78), $35.44 per barrel for NGL (2021: $30.61; 2020: $11.29) and $5.76 per mcf for natural gas (2021: $4.71; 2020: $3.11). (b) Other includes our interests in Libya (sold in November 2022) and Denmark (sold in August 2021). Crude oil hedging activities in 2022 were a net loss of $585 million before and after income taxes, and a net loss of $243 million before and after income taxes in 2021.  For 2023, we have hedged 80,000 bopd with WTI put options with an average monthly floor price of $70 per barrel, and 10,000 bopd with Brent put options with an average monthly floor price of $75 per barrel.  We expect option premium amortization, which will be reflected in realized selling prices, to reduce our results by approximately $30 million in the first quarter and by approximately $140 million for the full year 2023. 31 Production Volumes: Our daily worldwide net production was as follows: (a) In November 2020, we sold our working interest in the Shenzi Field in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico.  Net production from the Shenzi Field was 9,000 boepd for the year ended December 31, 2020. (b) Other includes our interests in Libya (sold in November 2022) and Denmark (sold in August 2021).  Net production from Libya was 17,000 boepd for 2022 (2021: 20,000 boepd; 2020: 4,000 boepd).  Net production from Denmark was 3,000 boepd for 2021 and 6,000 boepd for 2020. In 2023, we expect net production to be in the range of 355,000 boepd to 365,000 boepd , compared with 2022 net production of 327,000 boepd, proforma for assets sold. Net production variances related to 2022 and 2021 are summarized as follows: United States: North Dakota net production was lower in 2022 by 2,000 boepd primarily due to unplanned production shut-ins caused by severe winter weather partially offset by increased wells on-line.  Total offshore net production was lower in 2022 primarily due to field decline and unplanned downtime at the Tubular Bells , Penn State, and Llano Fields. International: Net production in Guyana was higher in 2022 primarily due to production ramp up from the Liza Unity FPSO, which commenced production in February 2022 and reached its expected production capacity of 220,000 gross bopd in July 2022.  Net production from Guyana included 7,000 bopd of tax barrels in 2022.  There were no tax barrels in 2021. 32 Sales Volumes: Higher sales volumes in 2022 increased after-tax earnings by approximately $490 million. Net worldwide sales volumes from Hess net production, which excludes sales volumes of crude oil, NGLs and natural gas purchased from third parties, were as follows: (a) Sales volumes in 2021 include 4.2 million barrels of crude oil that were stored on VLCCs at December 31, 2020 and sold in the first quarter of 2021. Marketing, including purchased oil and gas (Marketing expense): Marketing expense is mainly comprised of costs to purchase crude oil, NGL and natural gas from our partners in Hess operated wells or other third parties, primarily in the U.S., and transportation and other distribution costs for U.S. and Guyana marketing activities.  Marketing expense was higher in 2022 compared to 2021 primarily due to higher third party crude oil volumes purchased and higher prices paid for purchased volumes.  Marketing expense in 2021 included $173 million related to the cost of 4.2 million barrels of crude oil stored on two VLCCs in 2020 that were sold in 2021. Cash Operating Costs: Cash operating costs consist of operating costs and expenses, production and severance taxes and E&P general and administrative expenses.  Cash operating costs increased primarily due to the production ramp up in Guyana from the Liza Unity FPSO, higher production and severance taxes associated with higher crude oil prices, increased maintenance activity in North Dakota, and higher workover costs in the Gulf of Mexico.  On a per-unit basis, cash operating costs in 2022 reflect the higher costs partially offset by the impact of the higher production volumes compared with 2021. Midstream Tariffs Expense: Tariffs expense increased from 2021, primarily due to higher throughput volumes and minimum volume commitments in 2022.  In 2023, we estimate Midstream tariffs expense to be in the range of $1,230 million to $1,250 million. DD&A Expense: DD&A expense and per-unit rates were higher in 2022 compared with 2021 primarily due to higher production from Guyana following the startup of Liza Phase 2 in February 2022. Unit Costs: Unit cost per boe information is based on total E&P net production volumes and excludes items affecting comparability of earnings as disclosed on page .  Actual and forecast unit costs are as follows: (a) Cash operating costs per boe, excluding Libya, were $13.77 in 2022 (2021: $12.11; 2020: $9.85). (b) DD&A expense per boe, excluding Libya, was $12.59 in 2022 (2021: $12.43; 2020: $15.98). Exploration Expenses: Exploration expenses, including items affecting comparability of earnings described below, were as follows: (a) Dry hole costs primarily related to the Fish/Tarpon-1 well and Banjo-1 well in 2022 and the Koebi-1 well in 2021 at the Stabroek Block, offshore Guyana.  In 2020, dry hole costs primarily related to the Tanager-1 well in the Kaieteur Block, offshore Guyana, the Galapagos Deep and Oldfield-1 wells in the Gulf of Mexico and the write-off of previously capitalized exploratory wells (see Items Affecting Comparability of Earnings Between Periods below). In 2023, we estimate exploration expenses, excluding dry hole expense, to be in the range of $160 million to $170 million. 33 Income Taxes: In 2022, E&P income tax expense was $1,072 million compared with income tax expense of $585 million in 2021, primarily due to higher pre-tax income in Libya and Guyana.  Income tax expense from Libya operations was $527 million in 2022 compared with $436 million in 2021.  We are generally not recognizing deferred tax benefit or expense in certain countries, primarily the United States (non-Midstream) and Malaysia, while we maintain valuation allowances against net deferred tax assets in these jurisdictions in accordance with the requirements of GAAP. On August 16, 2022 the United States enacted the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022, which includes a 15% book-income alternative minimum tax on corporations with average adjusted financial statement income over $1 billion for any 3-year period ending with 2022 or later and a 1% excise tax on the fair market value of stock that is repurchased by publicly traded U.S. corporations.  The alternative minimum tax and the excise tax are effective in taxable years beginning after December 31, 2022.  The alternative minimum tax is designed to be a temporary acceleration of cash tax as amounts paid under such regime are creditable against the regular U.S. corporate income tax liability in following tax years.  The impact of the excise tax provision will be reflected as a component of the cost of the repurchased shares and will be dependent on the extent of share repurchases made in future periods.  We continue to evaluate the corporate alternative minimum tax and its potential impact on our future U.S. tax expense, cash taxes, and effective tax rate, as well as any other impacts the IRA may have on our financial position and results of operations. Actual effective tax rates are as follows: (a) Excludes any contribution from Libya and items affecting comparability of earnings. In 2023, we estimate E&P income tax expense, excluding items affecting comparability of earnings between periods, to be in the range of $590 million to $600 million. Items Affecting Comparability of Earnings Between Periods: Reported E&P earnings include the following items affecting comparability of income (expense): The pre-tax amounts of E&P items affecting comparability of income (expense) as presented in the Statement of Consolidated Income are as follow s : 2022: • Gains on asset sales, net: We recognized a pre-tax gain of $76 million ($76 million after income taxes) associated with the sale of our interest in the Waha Concession in Libya. • Impairment and other: We recorded charges of $28 million ($28 million after income taxes) that resulted from updates to our estimated abandonment liabilities for non-producing properties in the Gulf of Mexico and $26 million ($26 million after 34 income taxes) related to the Penn State Field in the Gulf of Mexico.  See Note 12, Impairment and Other in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements . 2021: • Gains on asset sales, net: We recognized a pre-tax gain of $29 million ($29 million after income taxes) associated with the sale of our interests in Denmark. • Impairment and other: We recorded a charge of $147 million ($147 million after income taxes) in connection with estimated abandonment obligations in the West Delta Field in the Gulf of Mexico.  These abandonment obligations were assigned to us as a former owner after they were discharged from Fieldwood as part of Fieldwood's approved bankruptcy plan.  See Note 12, Impairment and Other in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements . 2020: • Impairment and other: We recorded noncash impairment charges totaling $2.1 billion ($2.0 billion after income taxes) related to our oil and gas properties at North Malay Basin in Malaysia, the South Arne Field in Denmark, and the Stampede and Tubular Bells Fields in the Gulf of Mexico, primarily as a result of a lower long-term crude oil price outlook.  Other charges totaling $21 million pre-tax ($20 million after income taxes) related to drilling rig right-of-use assets in the Bakken and surplus materials and supplies.  See Note 12, Impairment and Other in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements . • Dry hole and lease impairment expenses: We incurred pre-tax charges totaling $152 million ($150 million after income taxes) in the first quarter to write-off previously capitalized exploratory well costs of $125 million ($123 million after income taxes) primarily related to the northern portion of the Shenzi Field in the Gulf of Mexico and to impair certain exploration leasehold costs by $27 million ($27 million after income taxes) due to a reprioritization of our capital program. • Crude oil inventories write-down: We incurred a pre-tax charge of $53 million ($52 million after income taxes) to adjust crude oil inventories to their net realizable value at the end of the first quarter following the significant decline in crude oil prices. • Severance costs: We recorded a pre-tax charge of $26 million ($26 million after income taxes) for employee termination benefits incurred related to cost reduction initiatives. • Gains on asset sales, net: We recorded a pre-tax gain of $79 million ($79 million after income taxes) associated with the sale of our 28% working interest in the Shenzi Field in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico. Midstream Following is a summarized statement of income for our Midstream operations: Sales and other operating revenues increased from 2021 primarily due to higher throughput volumes and minimum volume commitments.  Operating costs and expenses decreased primarily due to a planned maintenance turnaround at the Tioga Gas Plant in 2021, partially offset by increased operating and maintenance expenditures on expanded infrastructure in 2022.  DD&A expense increased from 2021 primarily due to additional assets placed in service.  Interest expense increased from 2021 primarily due to the $400 million of 5.500% fixed-rate senior unsecured notes issued in April 2022 and the $750 million of 4.250% fixed-rate senior unsecured notes issued in August 2021. 35 Excluding items affecting comparability of earnings, we estimate net income attributable to Hess Corporation from the Midstream segment to be in the range of $255 million to $265 million in 2023. Corporate, Interest and Other The following table summarizes Corporate, Interest and Other expenses: Corporate and other expenses, excluding items affecting comparability, were higher in 2022 compared to 2021 primarily due to higher legal and professional fees partially offset by higher interest income.  Interest expense, net was lower in 2022 compared to 2021 due to the repayment of the Corporation's $1.0 billion term loan, and capitalized interest that commenced upon sanctioning of the Yellowtail development in Guyana in April 2022. In 2023, after-tax Corporate and other expenses, excluding items affecting comparability of earnings between periods, are estimated to be in the range of $120 million to $130 million.  Interest expense, net is estimated to be in the range of $305 million to $315 million in 2023. Items Affecting Comparability of Earnings Between Periods: Corporate, Interest and Other results included the following items affecting comparability of income (expense): 2022: • Gains on asset sales, net: We recorded a pre-tax gain of $22 million ($22 million after income taxes) associated with the sale of real property related to our former downstream business. • Litigation costs: We incurred pre-tax charges totaling $124 million ($124 million after income taxes) for litigation related costs associated with our former downstream business, HONX, Inc., which are included in General and administrative expenses in the Statement of Consolidated Income .  See Note 17, Guarantees, Contingencies and Commitments and Note 20, Subsequent Events in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements . 2020: • Severance costs: We incurred a pre-tax charge of $1 million ($1 million after income taxes) for employee termination benefits related to cost reduction initiatives. Liquidity and Capital Resources The following table sets forth certain relevant measures of our liquidity and capital resources at December 31: (a) Includes $4 million of cash attributable to our Midstream Segment at December 31, 2022 (2021 : $2 million) of which, $3 million is held by Hess Midstream LP at December 31, 2022 (2021: $2 million). (b) Includes $2,886 million of debt outstanding from our Midstream Segment at December 31, 2022 (2021: $2,564 million) that is non-recourse to Hess Corporation. (c) Total Consolidated Debt of Hess Corporation (including finance leases and excluding Midstream non-recourse debt) as a percentage of Total Capitalization of Hess Corporation as defined under Hess Corporation's revolving credit facility financial covenants.  Total Capitalization excludes the impact of noncash impairment charges and non-controlling interests.  See Note 7, Debt in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 36 Cash Flows The following table sets forth a summary of our cash flows: Operating Activities : Net cash provided by operating activities was $3,944 million in 2022 (2021: $2,890 million), while net cash provided by operating activities before changes in operating assets and liabilities was $5,121 million in 2022 (2021: $2,991 million).  Net cash provided by operating activities before changes in operating assets and liabilities increased from 2021 primarily due to higher realized selling prices and higher sales volumes.  Changes in operating assets and liabilities in 2022 reduced net cash provided by operating activities by $1,177 million (2021: $101 million) reflecting payments of approximately $470 million for accrued Libyan income tax and royalties at December 31, 2021, premiums paid for crude oil hedge contracts, payments for abandonment activities, and the purchase of REDD+ carbon credits. Investing Activities: Additions to Property, Plant and Equipment were $2,725 million in 2022 (2021: $1,747 million).  The increase is primarily due to higher drilling and development activities in Guyana, the Bakken, Malaysia and JDA, and the Gulf of Mexico.  Proceeds from asset sales were $178 million in 2022 (2021: $427 million). Financing Activities: In 2022, we paid $630 million for settled common stock repurchases (2021: nil) and $465 million for common stock dividends (2021: $311 million).  In 2021, we repaid $500 million of our $1 billion term loan, and in 2022, we repaid the remaining $500 million.  In 2022, we received net proceeds of $146 million from the public offering of Class A shares in Hess Midstream LP (2021: $178 million).  Borrowings in 2022 resulted from the issuance by HESM Opco of $400 million of 5.500% fixed-rate senior unsecured notes due 2030 while borrowings in 2021 related to the issuance by HESM Opco of $750 million of 4.250% fixed-rate senior unsecured notes due 2030.  Net cash outflows to noncontrolling interests were $510 million in 2022 (2021: $664 million). Future Capital Requirements and Resources At December 31, 2022, we had $2.48 billion in cash and cash equivalents, excluding Midstream, and total liquidity, including available committed credit facilities, of approximately $5.7 billion.  We plan to return up to 75% of our annual adjusted free cash flow (defined as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures and adjusted for debt repayments and net Midstream financing activities) to shareholders through dividends and common stock repurchases.  In March 2022, we announced a 50% increase to our quarterly dividend on common stock, and in 2022, we repurchased approximately 5.4 million shares of common stock for $650 million ($20 million was paid subsequent to December 31, 2022).  At December 31, 2022, we have fully utilized our Board authorized common stock repurchase program. Net production in 2023 is forecast to be in the range of 355,000 boepd to 365,000 boepd , and we expect our 2023 E&P capital and exploratory expenditures will be approximately $3.7 billion, up from $2.7 billion in 2022.  In 2023, based on current forward strip crude oil prices, we expect cash flow from operating activities and cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2022 will be sufficient to fund our capital investment and capital return programs .  Depending on market conditions, we may take any of the following steps, or a combination thereof, to improve our liquidity and financial position: reduce the planned capital program and other cash outlays, including dividends, pursue asset sales, borrow against our committed revolving credit facility, or issue debt or equity securities. 37 The table below summarizes the capacity, usage, and available capacity of our borrowing and letter of credit facilities at December 31, 2022: (a) Uncommitted lines have expiration dates through 2023. (b) This credit facility may only be utilized by HESM Opco and is non-recourse to Hess Corporation. Hess Corporation: In July 2022, we replaced our $3.5 billion revolving credit facility expiring in May 2024 with a new $3.25 billion revolving credit facility maturing in July 2027.  The new facility, which is fully undrawn, can be used for borrowings and letters of credit.  Borrowings on the new facility will generally bear interest at 1.400% above SOFR, though the interest rate is subject to adjustment based on the credit rating of the Corporation's senior, unsecured, non-credit enhanced long-term debt.  At December 31, 2022, Hess Corporation had no outstanding borrowings or letters of credit under its revolving credit facility. In 2020, we entered into a $1 billion three year term loan agreement with a maturity date of March 16, 2023.  Borrowings under the term loan generally bear interest at LIBOR plus an initial applicable margin of 2.25%.  In July 2021, we repaid $500 million of the term loan, and in February 2022, we repaid the remaining $500 million. The revolving credit facility is subject to customary representations, warranties, customary events of default and covenants, including a financial covenant limiting the ratio of Total Consolidated Debt to Total Capitalization of the Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries to 65%, and a financial covenant limiting the ratio of secured debt to Consolidated Net Tangible Assets of the Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries to 15% (as these capitalized terms are defined in the credit agreement for the revolving credit facility).  The indentures for the Corporation's fixed-rate senior unsecured notes limit the ratio of secured debt to Consolidated Net Tangible Assets (as that term is defined in the indentures) to 15%.  As of December 31, 2022, Hess Corporation was in compliance with these financial covenants.  The most restrictive of the financial covenants relating to our fixed-rate senior unsecured notes and our revolving credit facility would allow us to borrow up to an additional $2,146 million of secured debt at December 31, 2022. We have a shelf registration under which we may issue additional debt securities, warrants, common stock or preferred stock. Midstream: In July 2022, HESM Opco, a consolidated subsidiary of Hess Midstream LP, amended and restated its credit agreement for its $1.4 billion senior secured syndicated credit facilities, consisting of a $1.0 billion revolving credit facility and a $400 million term loan facility.  The amended and restated credit agreement, among other things, extended the maturity date from December 2024 to July 2027, increased the accordion feature to up to an additional $750 million, which does not represent a lending commitment from the lenders, and replaced LIBOR as the benchmark interest rate with SOFR.  Borrowings under the term loan facility will generally bear interest at SOFR plus an applicable margin ranging from 1.650% to 2.550%, while the applicable margin for the syndicated revolving credit facility ranges from 1.375% to 2.050%.  Pricing levels for the facility fee and interest-rate margins are based on HESM Opco’s ratio of total debt to EBITDA (as defined in the credit facilities).  If HESM Opco obtains an investment grade credit rating, the pricing levels will be based on HESM Opco’s credit ratings in effect from time to time.  The credit facilities contain covenants that require HESM Opco to maintain a ratio of total debt to EBITDA (as defined in the credit facilities) for the prior four fiscal quarters of not greater than 5.00 to 1.00 as of the last day of each fiscal quarter (5.50 to 1.00 during the specified period following certain acquisitions) and, prior to HESM Opco obtaining an investment grade credit rating, a ratio of secured debt to EBITDA for the prior four fiscal quarters of not greater than 4.00 to 1.00 as of the last day of each fiscal quarter.  The credit facilities are secured by first-priority perfected liens on substantially all of the assets of HESM Opco and its direct and indirect wholly owned material domestic subsidiaries, including equity interests directly owned by such entities, subject to certain customary exclusions.  At December 31, 2022, borrowings of $18 million were drawn under HESM Opco’s revolving credit facility, and borrowings of $400 million, excluding deferred issuance costs, were drawn under HESM Opco’s Term Loan A facility.  Borrowings under these credit facilities are non-recourse to Hess Corporation. 38 Credit Ratings All three major credit rating agencies that rate the senior unsecured debt of Hess Corporation have assigned an investment grade credit rating.  In June 2022, Moody’s Investors Service upgraded our senior unsecured ratings from Ba1 to Baa3 with a stable outlook.  In March 2022, Standard and Poor’s Ratings Services affirmed our credit rating at BBB- with stable outlook.  Fitch Ratings affirmed our BBB- credit rating with a positive outlook in August 2022. At December 31, 2022, HESM Opco’s senior unsecured debt is rated BB+ by Standard and Poor’s Ratings Services and Fitch Ratings, and Ba2 by Moody’s Investors Service. Cash Requirements: Our cash obligations and commitments over the next twelve months include accounts payable, accrued liabilities, the current portion of long-term debt, interest, lease payments, and purchase obligations which cover a portion of our planned capital expenditure program in 2023 and include commitments for oil and gas production expenses, carbon credits, transportation and related contracts, seismic purchases and other normal business expenses. Our long-term cash obligations and commitments include: • Debt and interest: See Note 7 , Debt in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements . • Operating and finance leases: The Corporation and certain of its subsidiaries lease drilling rigs, equipment, logistical assets (offshore vessels, aircraft, and shorebases), and office space for varying periods.  See Note 6 , Leases in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements . • Purchase obligations: We were contractually committed at December 31, 2022 for certain long-term capital expenditures and operating expenses.  Long-term obligations for operating expenses include commitments for oil and gas production expenses, transportation and related contracts, carbon credits, seismic purchases and other normal business expenses.  See Note 17 , G uarantees, Contingencies and Commitments in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements . • Asset retirement obligations: See Note 8 , Asset Retirement Obligations in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements . • Post-retirement plan liabilities: We have certain unfunded post-retirement plans, including our post-retirement medical plan.  See Note 9 , Retirement Plans in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements . • Uncertain income tax positions: See Note 14 , Income Taxes in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements . Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements See Note 17, Guarantees, Contingencies and Commitments in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements . Foreign Operations We conduct E&P activities outside the U.S., principally in Guyana, the Joint Development Area of Malaysia/Thailand, Malaysia, Suriname, and Canada.  Therefore, we are subject to the risks associated with foreign operations.  See Item 1A. Risk Factors for further details. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Accounting policies and estimates affect the recognition of assets and liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet and revenues and expenses in the Statement of Consolidated Income .  The accounting methods used can affect net income, equity and various financial statement ratios.  However, our accounting policies generally do not change cash flows or liquidity. Accounting for Exploration and Development Costs: E&P activities are accounted for using the successful efforts method.  Costs of acquiring unproved and proved oil and gas leasehold acreage, including lease bonuses, brokers’ fees and other related costs are capitalized.  Annual lease rentals, exploration expenses and exploratory dry hole costs are expensed as incurred.  Costs of drilling and equipping productive wells, including development dry holes, and related production facilities are capitalized. The costs of exploratory wells that find oil and gas reserves are capitalized pending determination of whether proved reserves have been found.  Exploratory drilling costs remain capitalized after drilling is completed if (1) the well has found a sufficient quantity of reserves to justify completion as a producing well and (2) sufficient progress is being made in assessing the reserves and the economic and operational viability of the project.  If either of those criteria is not met, or if there is substantial doubt about the economic or operational viability of the project, the capitalized well costs are charged to expense.  Indicators of sufficient progress in assessing reserves, and the economic and operating viability of a project include: commitment of project personnel, active negotiations 39 for sales contracts with customers, negotiations with governments, operators and contractors and firm plans for additional drilling and other factors. Crude Oil and Natural Gas Reserves: The determination of estimated proved reserves is a significant element in arriving at the results of operations of E&P activities.  The estimates of proved reserves affect well capitalizations, the unit of production depreciation rates of proved properties and wells and equipment, as well as impairment testing of oil and gas assets. For reserves to be booked as proved they must be determined with reasonable certainty to be economically producible from known reservoirs under existing economic conditions, operating methods and government regulations.  In addition, government and project operator approvals must be obtained and, depending on the amount of the project cost, senior management or the Board of Directors must commit to fund the project.  We maintain our own internal reserve estimates that are calculated by technical staff that work directly with the oil and gas properties.  Our technical staff update reserve estimates throughout the year based on evaluations of new wells, performance reviews, new technical data and other studies.  To provide consistency throughout the Corporation, standard reserve estimation guidelines, definitions, reporting reviews and approval practices are used.  The internal reserve estimates are subject to internal technical audits and senior management review.  We also engage an independent third-party consulting firm to audit approximately 80% of our total proved reserves each year. Proved reserves are calculated using the average price during the twelve-month period ending December 31 determined as an unweighted arithmetic average of the price on the first day of each month within the year, unless prices are defined by contractual agreements, excluding escalations based on future conditions.  As discussed in Item 1A. Risk Factors , crude oil prices are volatile which can have an impact on our proved reserves.  Crude oil prices used in the determination of proved reserves at December 31, 2022 were $94.13 per barrel for WTI (2021: $66.34) and $97.98 per barrel for Brent (2021: $68.92).  At December 31, 2022, spot prices closed at $80.26 per barrel for WTI and $81.33 per barrel for Brent.  If crude oil prices in 2023 are at levels below that used in determining 2022 proved reserves, we may recognize negative revisions to our December 31, 2023 proved undeveloped reserves.  In addition, we may recognize negative revisions to proved developed reserves, which can vary significantly by asset due to differing operating cost structures.  Conversely, price increases in 2023 above those used in determining 2022 proved reserves could result in positive revisions to proved developed and proved undeveloped reserves at December 31, 2023.  It is difficult to estimate the magnitude of any potential net negative or positive change in proved reserves at December 31, 2023, due to numerous currently unknown factors, including 2023 crude oil prices, the amount of any additions to proved reserves, positive or negative revisions in proved reserves related to 2023 reservoir performance, the levels to which industry costs will change in response to 2023 crude oil prices, and management’s plans as of December 31, 2023 for developing proved undeveloped reserves . A 10% change in proved developed and proved undeveloped reserves at December 31, 2022 would result in an approximate $175 million pre-tax change in depreciation, depletion, and amortization expense for 2023 based on projected production volumes.  See the Supplementary Oil and Gas Data on pages through in the accompanying financial statements for additional information on our oil and gas reserves. Impairment of Long-lived Assets: We review long‑lived assets, including oil and gas fields, for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts may not be recovered.  Long‑lived assets are tested based on identifiable cash flows that are largely independent of the cash flows of other assets and liabilities.  If the carrying amounts of the long-lived assets are not expected to be recovered by estimated undiscounted future net cash flows, the assets are impaired and an impairment loss is recorded.  The amount of impairment is measured based on the estimated fair value of the assets generally determined by discounting anticipated future net cash flows, an income valuation approach, or by a market‑based valuation approach, which are Level 3 fair value measurements. In the case of oil and gas fields, the present value of future net cash flows is based on management’s best estimate of future prices, which is determined with reference to recent historical prices and published forward prices, applied to projected production volumes and discounted at a risk-adjusted rate.  The projected production volumes represent reserves, including probable reserves, expected to be produced based on a stipulated amount of capital expenditures.  The production volumes, prices and timing of production are consistent with internal projections and other externally reported information.  Oil and gas prices used for determining asset impairment will generally differ from those used in the standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows, since the standardized measure requires the use of historical twelve-month average prices. Our impairment tests of long-lived E&P producing assets are based on our best estimates of future production volumes (including recovery factors), selling prices, operating and capital costs, the timing of future production and other factors, which are updated each time an impairment test is performed.  We could experience an impairment in the future if one or a combination of the following occur: the projected production volumes from oil and gas fields decrease, crude oil and natural gas selling prices decline significantly for an extended period or future estimated capital and operating costs increase significantly. As a result of the significant decline in crude oil prices due to the economic slowdown from COVID-19, we reviewed our oil and gas fields and midstream operating segment asset groups for impairment at March 31, 2020.  We impaired various oil and gas fields located in Malaysia, Denmark, and the Gulf of Mexico in the first quarter of 2020 primarily as a result of a lower long-term crude oil price outlook.  See Note 12, Impairment and Other in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details. 40 Hess Midstream LP: We consolidate the activities of our interest in Hess Midstream LP , which qualifies as a variable interest entity (VIE) under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.  We have concluded that we are the primary beneficiary of the VIE, as defined in the accounting standards, since we have the power through Hess Corporation’s approximate 41% consolidated ownership interest in Hess Midstream LP to direct those activities that most significantly impact the economic performance of Hess Midstream LP , and are obligated to absorb losses or have the right to receive benefits that could potentially be significant to Hess Midstream LP .  This conclusion was based on a qualitative analysis that considered Hess Midstream LP ’s governance structure, the commercial agreements between Hess Midstream LP and us, and the voting rights established between the members, which provide us the ability to control the operations of Hess Midstream LP . Income Taxes: Judgments are required in the determination and recognition of income tax assets and liabilities in the financial statements.  These judgments include the requirement to recognize the financial statement effect of a tax position only when management believes it is more likely than not, based on the technical merits, that the position will be sustained upon examination. We have net operating loss carryforwards or credit carryforwards in multiple jurisdictions and have recorded deferred tax assets for those losses and credits.  Additionally, we have deferred tax assets due to temporary differences between the book basis and tax basis of certain assets and liabilities.  Regular assessments are made as to the likelihood of those deferred tax assets being realized.  If, when tested under the relevant accounting standards, it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized, a valuation allowance is recorded to reduce the deferred tax assets to the amount that is expected to be realized. The accounting standards require the evaluation of all available positive and negative evidence giving weight based on the evidence’s relative objectivity.  In evaluating potential sources of positive evidence, we consider the reversal of taxable temporary differences, taxable income in carryback and carryforward periods, the availability of tax planning strategies, the existence of appreciated assets, estimates of future taxable income, and other factors.  Estimates of future taxable income are based on assumptions of oil and gas reserves, selling prices, and other subjective operating assumptions that are consistent with internal business forecasts.  In evaluating potential sources of negative evidence, we consider a cumulative loss in recent years, any history of operating losses or tax credit carryforwards expiring unused, losses expected in early future years, unsettled circumstances that, if unfavorably resolved, would adversely affect future operations and profit levels on a continuing basis in future years, and any carryback or carryforward period so brief that a significant deductible temporary difference expected to reverse in a single year would limit realization of tax benefits.  We remained in a recent cumulative loss position in the United States (non-Midstream) and Malaysia at December 31, 2022.  A recent cumulative loss constitutes objective negative evidence to which the accounting standards require we assign significant weight relative to subjective evidence such as our estimates of future taxable income.  We are generally not recognizing deferred tax benefit or expense in certain countries, primarily the United States (non-Midstream), and Malaysia, while we maintain valuation allowances against net deferred tax assets in these jurisdictions. At December 31, 2022, the Consolidated Balance Sheet reflects a $3,658 million valuation allowance against the net deferred tax assets for multiple jurisdictions based on the evaluation of the accounting standards described above.  The amount of the deferred tax asset considered realizable, however, could be adjusted if objective negative evidence in the form of cumulative losses is no longer present and additional weight can be given to subjective evidence.  There is a reasonable possibility that if anticipated future earnings come to fruition and no other unforeseen negative evidence materializes, sufficient positive evidence may become available to support the release of all or a portion of the Company's valuation allowance in these jurisdictions in the near term.  This would result in the recognition of certain deferred tax assets and a decrease to income tax expense for the period in which the release is recorded. Asset Retirement Obligations: We have legal obligations to remove and dismantle long‑lived assets and to restore land or seabed at certain E&P locations.  In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, we recognize a liability for the fair value of required asset retirement obligations.  In addition, the fair value of any legally required conditional asset retirement obligation is recorded if the liability can be reasonably estimated.  We capitalize such costs as a component of the carrying amount of the underlying assets in the period in which the liability is incurred.  In subsequent periods, the liability is accreted, and the asset is depreciated over the useful life of the related asset.  We estimate the fair value of these obligations by discounting projected future payments that will be required to satisfy the obligations.  In determining these estimates, we are required to make several assumptions and judgments related to the scope of dismantlement, timing of settlement, interpretation of legal requirements, inflationary factors and discount rate.  In addition, there are other external factors, which could significantly affect the ultimate settlement costs or timing for these obligations including changes in environmental regulations and other statutory requirements, fluctuations in industry costs and foreign currency exchange rates and advances in technology.  As a result, our estimates of asset retirement obligations are subject to revision due to the factors described above.  Changes in estimates prior to settlement result in adjustments to both the liability and related asset values, unless the field has ceased production, in which case changes are recognized in our Consolidated Statement of Income .  See Note 8, Asset Retirement Obligations . Retirement Plans: We have funded non-contributory defined benefit pension plans, an unfunded supplemental pension plan and an unfunded postretirement medical plan.  We recognize the net change in the funded status of the projected benefit obligation for these plans in the Consolidated Balance Sheet .  The determination of the obligations and expenses related to these plans are based on several actuarial assumptions.  These assumptions represent estimates made by us, some of which can be affected by external factors.  The most significant assumptions relate to: 41 Discount rates used for measuring the present value of future plan obligations and net periodic benefit cost: The discount rates used to estimate our projected benefit obligations and net periodic benefit cost is based on a portfolio of high‑quality, fixed income debt instruments with maturities that approximate the expected payment of plan obligations.  At December 31, 2022, a 0.25% decrease in the discount rate assumptions would increase projected benefit obligations by approximately $65 million and would increase forecasted 2023 annual net periodic benefit expense by approximately $2 million.  The increase in the projected benefit obligations would decrease the funded status of our pension plans, but any decrease in the funded status would be partially mitigated by increases in the fair value of fixed income investments in the asset portfolios. Expected long-term rates of returns on plan assets: The expected rate of return on plan assets is developed from the expected future returns for each asset category, weighted by the target allocation of plan assets to that asset category.  The future expected rate of return assumptions for individual asset categories are largely based on inputs from various investment experts regarding their future return expectations for particular asset categories.  At December 31, 2022, a 0.25% decrease in the expected long-term rates of return on plan assets assumption would increase forecasted 2023 annual net periodic benefit expense by approximately $5 million. Other assumptions include the rate of future increases in compensation levels and expected participant mortality. Derivatives: We utilize derivative instruments, including futures, forwards, options and swaps, individually or in combination to mitigate our exposure to fluctuations in the prices of crude oil and natural gas, as well as changes in interest and foreign currency exchange rates.  All derivative instruments are recorded at fair value in our Consolidated Balance Sheet .  Our policy for recognizing the changes in fair value of derivatives varies based on the designation of the derivative.  The changes in fair value of derivatives that are not designated as hedges are recognized currently in earnings.  Derivatives may be designated as hedges of expected future cash flows or forecasted transactions (cash flow hedges), or hedges of changes in fair value of recognized assets and liabilities or of unrecognized firm commitments (fair value hedges).  Changes in fair value of derivatives that are designated as cash flow hedges are recorded as a component of other comprehensive income (loss).  Amounts included in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) for cash flow hedges are reclassified into earnings in the same period that the hedged item is recognized in earnings.  Changes in fair value of derivatives designated as fair value hedges are recognized currently in earnings.  The change in fair value of the related hedged item is recorded as an adjustment to its carrying amount and recognized currently in earnings. Fair Value Measurements: We use various valuation approaches in determining fair value for financial instruments, including the market and income approaches.  Our fair value measurements also include non-performance risk and time value of money considerations.  Counterparty credit is considered for financial assets, and our credit is considered for financial liabilities. We also record certain nonfinancial assets and liabilities at fair value when required by generally accepted accounting principles.  These fair value measurements are recorded in connection with business combinations, qualifying non-monetary exchanges, the initial recognition of asset retirement obligations and any impairment of long-lived assets, equity method investments or goodwill. We determine fair value in accordance with the fair value measurements accounting standard which established a hierarchy for the inputs used to measure fair value based on the source of the inputs, which generally range from quoted prices for identical instruments in a principal trading market (Level 1) to estimates determined using related market data (Level 3), including discounted cash flows and other unobservable data.  Measurements derived indirectly from observable inputs or from quoted prices from markets that are less liquid are considered Level 2.  When Level 1 inputs are available within a particular market, those inputs are selected for determination of fair value over Level 2 or 3 inputs in the same market.  Multiple inputs may be used to measure fair value; however, the level assigned to a fair value measurement is based on the lowest significant input level within this fair value hierarchy. Environment, Health and Safety Our long-term vision and values provide a foundation for how we do business and define our commitment to meeting high standards of corporate citizenship and creating a long lasting positive impact on the communities where we do business.  Our strategy is reflected in our EHS & SR policies and by a management system framework that helps protect our workforce, customers and local communities.  Our management systems are intended to promote internal consistency, adherence to policy objectives and continual improvement in EHS & SR performance.  Improved performance may, in the short‑term, increase our operating costs and could also require increased capital expenditures to reduce potential risks to our assets, reputation and license to operate.  In addition to enhanced EHS & SR performance, improved productivity and operational efficiencies may be realized from investments in EHS & SR.  We have programs in place to evaluate regulatory compliance, audit facilities, train employees, prevent and manage risks and emergencies and to generally meet corporate EHS & SR goals and objectives. Environmental Matters We recognize that climate change is a global environmental concern.  We assess, monitor and take measures to reduce our carbon footprint at existing and planned operations.  The EPA has adopted a series of GHG monitoring, reporting, and emissions control rules for the oil and natural gas industry, and the U.S. Congress has, from time to time, considered adopting further legislation to reduce GHG emissions.  For example, in November 2021, the EPA proposed new regulations to establish comprehensive standards of 42 performance and emission guidelines for methane and volatile organic compound emissions from existing operations in the oil and gas sector, including the exploration and production, transmission, processing, and storage segments.  The EPA issued a supplemental proposed rule on November 15, 2022, which provided additional information, including regulatory text, about the November 2021 proposed rule.  The supplemental proposed rule would impose more stringent requirements than are currently applicable on the natural gas and oil industry.  In addition, the IRA includes a methane emissions reduction program for petroleum and natural gas systems, which requires the EPA to impose a “waste emissions charge” on excess methane emissions from certain natural gas and oil sources that are required to report under EPA’s Greenhouse Gas Reporting Program beginning January 1, 2024 and also provides significant funding and incentives for research and development of competing low carbon energy production methods.  Furthermore, states have taken measures to reduce emissions of GHGs, primarily through the development of GHG emission inventories and/or regional GHG cap-and-trade programs.  At the international level, the Paris Agreement on climate change aimed to enhance global response to global temperature changes and to reduce GHG emissions, among other things.  We are committed to complying with all GHG emissions regulations that apply to our operations, including those related to venting or flaring of natural gas, and the responsible management of GHG emissions at our facilities.  While we monitor climate-related regulatory initiatives and international public policy issues, the current state of ongoing international climate initiatives and any related domestic actions make it difficult to assess the timing or effect on our operations or to predict with certainty the future costs that we may incur in order to comply with future international treaties, legislation or new regulations.  However, future restrictions on emissions of GHGs, or related measures to encourage use of low carbon energy could result in higher capital expenditures and operating expenses for us and the oil and gas industry in general and may reduce demand for our products, as described under Regulatory, Legal and Environmental Risks in Item 1A. Risk Factors . We will have continuing expenditures for environmental assessment and remediation.  Sites where corrective action may be necessary include E&P facilities, sites from discontinued operations where we retained liability and, although not currently significant, EPA “Superfund” sites where we have been named a potentially responsible party.  We accrue for environmental assessment and remediation expenses when the future costs are probable and reasonably estimable.  For additional information, see Item 3. Legal Proceedings .  At December 31, 2022, our reserve for estimated remediation liabilities was approximately $55 million.  We expect that existing reserves for environmental liabilities will adequately cover costs to assess and remediate known sites.  Our remediation spending was approximately $23 million in 2022 (2021: $16 million; 2020: $15 million).  The amount of other expenditures incurred to comply with federal, state, local and foreign country environmental regulations is difficult to quantify as such costs are captured as mostly indistinguishable components of our capital expenditures and operating expenses. As an element of our EHS and SR strategy, we purchase carbon credits annually to offset 100 percent of our estimated Scope 3 business travel emissions and 100 percent of our estimated Scope 1 and Scope 3 emissions associated with operating the Corporation’s truck fleet, aviation activities (aircraft and helicopters) and personal and rental vehicle miles driven on company business.  We also offset purchased electricity used in our operations from nonrenewable sources by purchasing renewable energy certificates.  The cost of these purchased and retired renewable energy certificates was not material to our financial results in 2022 and was included in Operating costs and expenses in the Statement of Consolidated Income . In December 2022, we announced an agreement with the Government of Guyana to purchase 37.5 million REDD+ carbon credits, including current and future issuances, for a minimum of $750 million from 2022 through 2032 to prevent deforestation and support sustainable development in Guyana.  These credits will be on the ART Registry and will be independently verified to represent permanent and additional emissions reductions under ART's REDD+ Environmental Standard 2.0 (TREES).  This agreement adds to the Corporation's ongoing emissions reduction efforts and is an important part of our commitment to achieve net zero Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions on a net equity basis by 2050.  In December 2022, w e purchased 5 million REDD+ carbon credits registered on the ART Registry for $75 million under this agreement, which is included in non-current Other assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheet . Health and Safety Matters The crude oil and natural gas industry is regulated at federal, state, local and foreign government levels regarding the health and safety of E&P operations.  Such laws and regulations relate to, among other matters, occupational safety, the use of hydraulic fracturing to stimulate crude oil and natural gas production, well control and integrity, process safety and equipment integrity, and may include permitting and disclosure requirements, operating restrictions and other conditions on the development of crude oil and natural gas.  The level of our expenditures to comply with federal, state, local and foreign country health and safety regulations is difficult to quantify as such costs are captured as mostly indistinguishable components of our capital expenditures and operating expenses.  While compliance with laws and regulations relating to health and safety matters increases the overall cost of business for us and the oil and gas industry in general, it has not had, to date, a material adverse effect on our operations, financial condition or results of operations. Occupational Safety : We are subject to the requirements set forth under federal workplace standards by the OSHA and comparable state statutes that regulate the protection of the health and safety of workers.  Under OSHA and other federal and state occupational safety and health laws and laws of foreign countries in which we operate, we must develop, maintain and disclose certain information about hazardous materials used, released, or produced in our operations. 43 Production and Well Integrity : Our U.S. onshore production facilities are subject to U.S. federal government, state and local regulations regarding the use of hydraulic fracturing and well control and integrity.  Our offshore production facilities in the Gulf of Mexico are subject to the U.S. federal government’s Safety and Environmental Management System regulations, which provide a systematic approach for identifying, managing and mitigating hazards.  Adapting to new technical standards and procedures in production and in our well integrity management system is fundamental to our aim of protecting the environment as well as the health and safety of our workforce and the communities in which we operate, and to safeguarding our product. Process Safety and Equipment Integrity : We are also regulated at federal, state, local and foreign government levels regarding process safety and the integrity of our equipment, including OSHA’s Process Safety Management of Highly Hazardous Chemicals standard.  ICE are barriers and safeguards that prevent or mitigate process safety incidents through detection, isolation, containment, control or emergency preparedness and response within our facilities.  We have established ICE performance standards, which set specific requirements and criteria for inspections and tests that help to ensure ICE barriers are effective.  We conduct assessments collaboratively with our operated assets, subject matter experts and technical authorities to evaluate compliance with corporate and asset environment, health and safety standards and procedures, as well as with applicable regulations.  For additional information on our emergency response and incident mitigation activities, see Emergency Preparedness and Response Plans and Procedures in Items 1 and 2. Business and Properties . 44