********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

In addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our company and our business. Risks Related to the COVID-19 Pandemic The ongoing global COVID-19 pandemic has negatively affected and will continue to negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The COVID-19 pandemic has significantly affected the global economy and strained the hospitality industry due to travel restrictions and stay-at-home directives that have resulted in cancellations and reduced travel around the world, as well as complete and partial suspensions of certain hotel operations for an indeterminate duration. Although there are effective vaccines for COVID-19 that have been approved for use, distribution of the vaccines did not begin until late 2020, and a majority of the public will likely not have access to a vaccination until sometime in 2021. In addition, new strains of the virus appear to have increased transmissibility, which could complicate treatment and vaccination programs. As such, the COVID-19 pandemic has had a material negative impact on our results for the year ended December 31, 2020, and will continue to negatively affect future results. The current and uncertain future impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, including its effect on the ability or desire of people to travel and use our hotel properties for lodging, food and beverage and other services, is expected to continue to negatively affect our results, operations, outlook, plans, growth, cash flows and liquidity. During the pandemic, the U.S. and other national and local governments have imposed travel restrictions at various times and, in some countries and U.S. states, re-imposed such restrictions, and a number of our hotels have fully or partially suspended operations. We have been and expect to continue to be negatively affected by additional governmental regulations and travel advisories to fight the pandemic, including recommendations by the U.S. Department of State, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the World Health Organization. We cannot predict when any of our hotels that have completely or partially suspended operations will be able to fully reopen, the conditions upon which a full reopening may occur or the effects of any such conditions. We also cannot predict if any of our hotels that are currently operational will have to completely or partially suspend operations in the future. Moreover, even where travel advisories and restrictions have been lifted, travel demand has been and is likely to remain weak for a significant length of time and we cannot predict if or when our properties will return to pre-pandemic demand or pricing. Although we have implemented new hygiene and cleaning standards, we cannot fully predict their impact on people believing it is safe to travel. Adverse changes in the perceived or actual economic climate, including higher unemployment rates, declines in income levels and loss of personal wealth resulting from the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, will also negatively affect travel demand. The steps we have taken to reduce operating costs, including temporarily reducing compensation, reducing our workforce and furloughing a substantial number of our employees, and further steps we may take in the future to reduce costs for us or our third-party hotel owners, may negatively affect our brand reputation and ability to attract and retain employees. If our furloughed employees do not return to work with us when the COVID-19 pandemic subsides, including because they find new jobs during the furlough, we may face operational challenges that could negatively affect hotel results, guest experience and loyalty. We also may face demands or requests from labor unions that represent employees at our hotels for additional compensation, healthcare benefits or other terms, including making payments to underfunded multi-employer pension plans for covered union employees, as a result of the pandemic that could increase costs, and we could experience labor issues as we implement our mitigation plans. Even after the COVID-19 pandemic subsides, we could still experience long-term impacts on our operating costs as a result of attempts to counteract future outbreaks of COVID-19 or other viruses through, for example, enhanced health and hygiene requirements or other such measures in one or more regions. We cannot predict the full impact that the COVID-19 pandemic will have on our partners, such as third-party owners of our properties, third-party service providers, travel agencies, suppliers and other vendors. In particular, if third-party owners of our hotels are unable to maintain their hotels and service indebtedness secured by their hotels, our results of operations and reputation could suffer. Third-party owners of our hotels have experienced financing difficulties and significant declines in revenues, thereby making it more likely that they could declare bankruptcy or face other difficulties with their lenders or other creditors. Bankruptcies, sales or foreclosures involving our hotels could, in some cases, result in the termination of our management or franchise contracts and eliminate our anticipated income and cash flows, including amounts currently due to us under existing agreements, which would negatively affect our results of operations. Hotel owners with financial difficulties have been and may continue to be unable or unwilling to pay us amounts that we are entitled to under our existing contracts on 20 a timely basis or at all. Current and ongoing economic conditions also could affect our ability to enter into management and franchise contracts with potential third-party owners of our hotels, who may be unable to obtain financing or face other delays in developing hotel projects. As a result, some properties in our development pipeline may not enter our system when we anticipated, or at all, and new hotels may enter our pipeline at a slower rate than in the past, thereby negatively affecting our overall growth. Likewise, if we or our hotel owners or franchisees are unable to access capital to make physical improvements to our hotels, the quality of our hotels may suffer, which may negatively impact our reputation and guest loyalty, and our market share may suffer as a result. We may be required to raise additional capital in the future, and our access to and cost of financing will depend on, among other things, global economic conditions, conditions in the global financing markets, the availability of sufficient amounts of financing, our prospects and our credit ratings. Certain of our credit ratings have been downgraded or placed on credit watch, and if our credit ratings were to be further downgraded, or general market conditions were to ascribe higher risk to our rating levels, our industry or us, our access to capital and the cost of any debt financing would be negatively affected. In addition, the terms of future debt agreements could include more restrictive covenants, or require incremental collateral, which may further restrict our business operations. There is no guarantee that debt financings will be available in the future to fund our obligations, or that they will be available on terms consistent with our expectations. In addition, because of reduced travel demand, certain of our leased properties will not generate revenue sufficient to meet operating expenses, which may include rent due to the landlords of those properties. If or when we determine the value of our leased properties or the carrying value of other assets has significantly declined, we have recognized, and may in the future recognize, significant non-cash impairment charges to our results of operations. Further, to the extent the COVID-19 pandemic significantly impacts spending patterns of Hilton Honors co-branded credit cardholders or the acquisition of new cardholders, we will receive lower license fees under our co-branded credit card arrangements. The COVID-19 pandemic has significantly increased economic and demand uncertainty and could cause a global recession, which would have a further adverse impact on our financial condition and operations. The significant increase in unemployment in the U.S. and other regions due to the adoption of social distancing and other policies to slow the spread of COVID-19 continues to have a sustained negative impact on travel demand. The extent of the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business and the travel industry at large remains highly uncertain and will ultimately depend on future developments, including, but not limited to, the duration and severity of the outbreak, the timing and availability of vaccinations and other treatments to combat COVID-19 and the length of time it takes for demand and pricing to stabilize and normal economic and operating conditions to resume. Given the uncertainty as to the extent and timing of the potential future spread or mitigation of COVID-19 and the imposition or relaxation of protective measures, we are presently unable to estimate the full impact to our future results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. Additionally, the COVID-19 pandemic could negatively affect our internal controls over financial reporting as we have reduced our workforce and placed many of our employees on temporary furlough. Our remaining employees have been required to work from home and, therefore, new processes, procedures and controls could be required to respond to changes in our business environment. Further, should any key employees become ill from COVID-19 and unable to work, the attention of our management team could be diverted. The potential effects of the COVID-19 pandemic also could intensify or otherwise affect many of our other risk factors described below, including, but not limited to, risks inherent to the hospitality industry, macroeconomic factors beyond our control, competition for hotel guests and management and franchise contracts, risks related to doing business with third-party hotel owners, performance of our information technology systems, growth of reservation channels outside of our system, risks of doing business outside of the U.S. and risks related to our indebtedness. Because the COVID-19 situation is unprecedented and continuously evolving, the other potential impacts to our other risk factors below are uncertain. Risks Related to Our Industry We are subject to the business, financial and operating risks inherent to the hospitality industry, any of which could reduce our revenues and limit opportunities for growth. Our business is subject to a number of business, financial and operating risks inherent to the hospitality industry, including: • significant competition from multiple hospitality providers in all parts of the world; • the financial condition of third-party property owners, developers and joint venture partners; 21 • relationships with third-party property owners, developers and joint venture partners, including the risk that owners may terminate our management, franchise or joint venture contracts; • decreases in the frequency of business travel that may result from alternatives to in-person meetings, including virtual meetings hosted online or over private teleconferencing networks; • changes in operating costs, including employee compensation and benefits, energy, insurance and food and beverage; • increases in costs due to inflation or other factors that may not be fully offset by increases in revenues in our business; • changes in taxes and governmental regulations that influence or set wages, prices, interest rates or construction and maintenance procedures and costs; • the costs and administrative burdens associated with complying with applicable laws and regulations; • the costs or desirability of complying with local practices and customs; • significant increases in cost for health care coverage for employees and potential government regulation with respect to health care coverage; • shortages of labor or labor disruptions; • the ability of third-party internet and other travel intermediaries who sell our hotel rooms to guests to attract and retain customers; • the quality of services provided by franchisees, including ability to comply with relevant requirements including environment, human rights and labor; • the availability and cost of capital necessary for us and third-party hotel owners to fund investments, capital expenditures and service debt obligations; • delays in or cancellations of planned or future development or refurbishment projects; • cyclical over-building in the hospitality industry; • changes in desirability of geographic regions of the hotels in our business, geographic concentration of our operations and customers and shortages of desirable locations for development; and • changes in the supply and demand for hotel services, including rooms, food and beverage and other products and services. Any of these factors could increase our costs or limit or reduce the prices we are able to charge for hospitality products and services, or otherwise affect our ability to maintain existing properties or develop new properties. As a result, any of these factors can reduce our revenues and limit opportunities for growth. Macroeconomic and other factors beyond our control can adversely affect and reduce demand for our products and services. Macroeconomic and other factors beyond our control can reduce demand for hospitality products and services, including demand for rooms at our hotels. These factors include, but are not limited to: • changes in general economic conditions, including low consumer confidence, increases in unemployment levels and depressed real estate prices resulting from the severity and duration of any downturn in the U.S. or global economy; • conditions that negatively shape public perception of travel or result in temporary closures or other disruption at our hotel properties, including travel-related accidents, outbreaks of pandemic or contagious diseases, such as COVID-19, Ebola, Zika, avian flu, severe acute respiratory syndrome ("SARS"), H1N1 (swine flu) and Middle East Respiratory Syndrome ("MERS"); 22 • geo-political activity, political unrest, and governmental action and uncertainty resulting from U.S. and global political trends and policies, including potential barriers to travel, trade and immigration; • war, political instability or civil unrest, terrorist activities or threats and heightened travel security measures instituted in response to these events; • decreased corporate or government travel-related budgets and spending, as well as cancellations, deferrals or renegotiations of group business, such as industry conventions; • statements, actions or interventions by governmental officials related to travel and corporate travel-related activities and the resulting negative public perception of such travel and activities; • the financial and general business condition of the airline, automotive and other transportation-related industries and its effect on travel, including decreased airline capacity and routes and increased travel costs; • perceived negative impacts of tourism on local cultures, human rights and the environment; • cyber-attacks; • climate change or availability of natural resources; • natural, climate-related or man-made disasters and extreme weather conditions, including earthquakes, tsunamis, tornadoes, hurricanes, typhoons, floods, wildfires, volcanic eruptions, oil spills and nuclear incidents; • organized labor activities, which could cause a diversion of business from hotels involved in labor negotiations and loss of business for our hotels generally as a result of certain labor tactics; and • other changes in the overall demand for what we offer, including the desirability of particular locations or travel patterns of customers. Any one or more of these factors could limit or reduce overall demand for our products and services or could negatively affect our revenue sources, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Contraction in the global economy or low levels of economic growth could adversely affect our revenues and profitability, as well as limit or slow our future growth. Consumer demand for our services is closely linked to the performance of the general economy and is sensitive to business and personal discretionary spending levels. Decreased global or regional demand for hospitality products and services can be especially pronounced during periods of economic contraction or low levels of economic growth, and the recovery period in our industry may lag overall economic improvement. Declines in demand for our products and services due to general economic conditions could negatively affect our business by limiting the amount of fee revenues we are able to generate from our managed and franchised properties and decreasing the revenues and profitability of our owned and leased properties. In addition, many of the expenses associated with our business, including personnel costs, interest, rent, property taxes, insurance and utilities, are relatively fixed. During a period of overall economic weakness, if we are unable to meaningfully decrease these costs as demand for our hotels decreases, our business operations and financial performance and results may be adversely affected. The hospitality industry is subject to seasonal and cyclical volatility, which may contribute to fluctuations in our results of operations and financial condition. The hospitality industry is seasonal in nature. The periods during which our properties experience higher revenues vary from property to property, depending principally upon their location, type of property and competitive mix within the specific location and may change with changes in overall availability of lodging and hospitality options within a local market. Based on historical results, we generally expect our revenues to be lower in the first quarter of each year than in each of the three subsequent quarters. However, the timing and effects of the COVID-19 pandemic resulted in the first quarter of 2020 being the strongest quarter in the year, as the remainder of the year was more significantly impacted by reduced occupancy due to travel restrictions, safety concerns and the complete and partial suspensions of hotel operations. In addition, the hospitality industry is cyclical and demand generally follows the general economy on a lagged basis. We and our hotel owners experienced a 23 downturn in the current industry cycle driven by the COVID-19 pandemic. We expect to enter into a recovery phase in our industry cycle as vaccines and treatments become more widely available. The seasonality and cyclicality of our industry may contribute to fluctuations in our results of operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Operating Our Business Because we operate in a highly competitive industry, our revenues or profits could be harmed if we are unable to compete effectively. The segments of the hospitality industry in which we operate are subject to intense competition. Our principal competitors are other operators of luxury, full-service and focused-service hotels, including other major hospitality chains with well-established and recognized brands. We also compete against smaller hotel chains, independent and local hotel owners and operators, home and apartment sharing services and timeshare operators. If we are unable to compete successfully, our revenues or profits may decline. Competition for hotel guests We face competition for individual guests, group reservations and conference business. We compete for these customers based primarily on brand name recognition and reputation, as well as location, rates for hotel rooms, food and beverage and other services, property size and availability of rooms and conference and meeting space, accommodations and technology, quality of the accommodations, customer satisfaction, amenities and the ability to earn and redeem loyalty program points. Our competitors may have greater commercial, financial and marketing resources and more efficient technology platforms, which could allow them to improve their properties and expand and improve their marketing efforts in ways that could affect our ability to compete for guests effectively, or they could offer a type of lodging product that customers find attractive but that we do not offer. Competition for management and franchise contracts We compete to enter into management and franchise contracts. Our ability to compete effectively is based primarily on the value and quality of our management services, brand name recognition and reputation, our access to and willingness to invest capital, availability of suitable properties in certain geographic areas, the overall economic terms of our contracts and the economic advantages to the property owner of retaining our management services and/or using our brands. If the properties that we manage or franchise perform less successfully than those of our competitors, if we are unable to offer terms as favorable as those offered by our competitors or if the availability of suitable properties is limited, we may not be able to compete effectively for new management or franchise contracts could be reduced. Any deterioration in the quality or reputation of our brands could have an adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition or results of operations. Our brands and our reputation are among our most important assets. Our ability to attract and retain guests depends, in part, on the public recognition of our brands and their associated reputation. In addition, the success of our hotel owners’ businesses and the amount of payments to us for the assets and services we provide them may depend on the strength and reputation of our brands. If our brands become obsolete or consumers view them as unfashionable, unsustainable or lacking in consistency and quality, we may be unable to attract guests to our hotels, and may further be unable to attract or retain our hotel owners. Changes in ownership or management practices, perceptions of our environmental, social or governance practices, perception of guest or employee health or safety, the occurrence of accidents or injuries, cyber-attacks, security breaches, natural disasters, crime, failure of suppliers, franchisees or business partners to comply with relevant requirements (including environmental, human rights and labor requirements), individual guest, owner or employee notoriety or similar events at our hotels and resorts can harm our reputation, create adverse publicity and cause a loss of consumer confidence in our business. Because of the global nature of our brands and the broad expanse of our business and hotel locations, events occurring in one location could negatively affect the reputation and operations of otherwise successful individual locations. In addition, the expansion of social media has compounded the potential scope of negative publicity by increasing the speed and expanse of information dissemination. Many social media platforms publish content immediately and without filtering or verifying the accuracy of that content. A negative incident at one hotel could have far-reaching effects, including lost sales, customer boycotts, loss of development opportunities and employee difficulties. Such an incident also could subject us to legal actions, including litigation, governmental investigations or penalties, along with the resulting additional adverse publicity. A perceived 24 decline in the quality of our brands or damage to our reputation could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our business is subject to risks related to doing business with third-party property owners that could adversely affect our reputation, operational results or prospects for growth. Unless we maintain good relationships with third-party hotel owners and renew or enter into new management and franchise contracts, we may be unable to expand our presence and our business, financial condition and results of operations may suffer. Our business depends on our ability to: (i) establish and maintain long-term, positive relationships with third-party property owners and (ii) enter into new, and renew, management and franchise contracts. Although our management and franchise contracts are typically long-term arrangements, hotel owners may be able to terminate the contracts under certain circumstances, including the failure to meet specified financial or performance criteria. Our ability to meet these financial and performance criteria is subject to, among other things, risks common to the overall hospitality industry, including factors outside of our control. In addition, negative management and franchise pricing trends could adversely affect our ability to negotiate with hotel owners. If we fail to maintain and renew existing management and franchise contracts or enter into new contracts on favorable terms, we may be unable to expand our presence and our business, and our financial condition and results of operations may suffer. Our business is subject to real estate investment risks for third-party owners that could adversely affect our operational results and our prospects for growth. Growth of our business is affected, and may potentially be limited, by factors influencing real estate development generally, including site availability, financing, planning, zoning and other local approvals. In addition, market factors such as projected room occupancy, changes in growth in demand for customers compared to projected supply, geographic area restrictions in management and franchise contracts, costs of construction and anticipated room rate structure, if not managed effectively by our third-party owners could adversely affect the growth of our management and franchise business. If our third-party property owners are unable to repay or refinance loans secured by properties, or to obtain financing adequate to fund current operations or growth plans, our revenues, profits and capital resources could be reduced and our business could be harmed. Many of our third-party property owners pledged their properties as collateral for loans entered into at the time of development, purchase or refinancing. If our third-party property owners are unable to repay or refinance maturing indebtedness on favorable terms or at all, their lenders could declare a default, accelerate the related debt and repossess the property. While we maintain certain contractual protections, repossession could result in the termination of our management or franchise contract or eliminate revenues and cash flows from the property. In addition, the owners of managed and franchised hotels depend on financing to develop or buy and improve hotels and in some cases, fund operations during down cycles. Our hotel owners’ inability to obtain adequate funding could materially adversely affect the maintenance and improvement plans of existing hotels, result in the delay or stoppage of the development of our existing development pipeline and limit additional development to further expand our hotel portfolio. If our third-party property owners fail to make investments necessary to maintain or improve their properties, guest preference for Hilton brands, Hilton's reputation and performance results could suffer. Substantially all of our management and franchise contracts, as well as our license agreement with HGV, require third-party property owners to comply with quality and reputation standards of our brands, which include requirements related to the physical condition, use of technology, safety standards and appearance of the properties, as well as the service levels provided by hotel employees. These standards may evolve with customer preference, or we may introduce new requirements over time. If our property owners fail to make investments necessary to maintain or improve the properties in accordance with our standards, or based on customer demand more broadly, guest preference for our brands could diminish. In addition, if third-party property owners fail to observe standards or meet their contractual requirements, we may elect to exercise our termination rights, which would eliminate revenues from these properties and cause us to incur expenses related to terminating these contracts. We may be unable to find suitable or offsetting replacements for any terminated relationships. 25 Contractual and other disagreements with third-party property owners could make us liable to them or result in litigation costs or other expenses. Our management and franchise contracts require us and our hotel owners to comply with operational and performance conditions that are subject to interpretation and could result in disagreements. Any dispute with a property owner could be very expensive for us, even if the outcome is ultimately in our favor. We cannot predict the outcome of any arbitration or litigation, the effect of any negative judgment against us or the amount of any settlement that we may enter into with any third party. Furthermore, specific to our industry, some courts have applied principles of agency law and related fiduciary standards to managers of third-party hotel properties, which means that property owners may assert the right to terminate contracts even where the contracts do not expressly provide for termination. Our fees from any terminated property would be eliminated, and accordingly may negatively affect our results of operations. Some of our existing development pipeline may not be developed into new hotels, which could materially adversely affect our growth prospects. As of December 31, 2020, we had nearly 2,570 hotels in our development pipeline, which we define as hotels under construction or approved for development under one of our brands. The commitments of owners and developers with whom we have contracts are subject to numerous conditions, and the eventual development and construction of our development pipeline, in particular for hotels not currently under construction, is subject to numerous risks, including, in certain cases, the owner's or developer's ability to obtain adequate financing and governmental or regulatory approvals. As a result, not every hotel in our development pipeline may develop into a new hotel that enters our system. New hotel brands or non-hotel branded concepts that we launch in the future may not be as successful as we anticipate, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Since 2011, we have launched nine new brands: Home2 Suites by Hilton; Curio Collection by Hilton; Canopy by Hilton; Tru by Hilton; Tapestry Collection by Hilton; Motto by Hilton; LXR Hotels & Resorts; Signia by Hilton; and, most recently, Tempo by Hilton. We may continue to build our portfolio by launching new hotel and non-hotel brands in the future. In addition, the Hilton Garden Inn, DoubleTree by Hilton and Hampton by Hilton brands have been expanding into new jurisdictions outside the U.S. over the past several years. We may continue to expand existing brands into new international markets. New hotel products or concepts or brand expansions may not be accepted by hotel owners, franchisees or customers and we cannot guarantee the level of acceptance any new brand will have in the development and consumer marketplaces. If new branded hotel products, non-hotel branded concepts or brand expansions are not as successful as we anticipate, we may not recover the costs we incurred in their development or expansion, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. The risks resulting from investments in owned and leased real estate could increase our costs, reduce our profits and limit our ability to respond to market conditions. Our investments in owned and leased real property (including through joint ventures) subject us to various risks that may not be applicable to managed or franchised properties, including: • governmental regulations relating to real estate ownership or operations, including tax, environmental, zoning and eminent domain laws; • fluctuations or loss in value of real estate or potential impairments in the value of our assets due to changes in market conditions in the area in which real estate or assets are located; • increased potential civil liability for accidents or other occurrences on owned or leased properties; • the ongoing need for capital improvements and expenditures funded by us to maintain or upgrade properties and contractual requirements to deliver properties back to landlords in a particular state of repair and condition at the end of a lease term; • periodic total or partial closures due to renovations and facility improvements; • risks associated with any mortgage debt, including the possibility of default, fluctuating interest rate levels and uncertainties in the availability of replacement financing; 26 • contingent liabilities that exist after we have exited a property; • costs linked to the employment and management of staff to run and operate an owned or leased property; and • the relative illiquidity of real estate compared to some other assets. The negative effect on profitability and cash flow from declines in revenues is more pronounced in owned and leased properties because we, as the owner or lessee, bear the risk of the fixed-cost structure required to own and operate a hotel. Further, during times of economic distress, declining demand and declining earnings often result in declining asset values, and we may not be able to sell properties or exit leasing arrangements on favorable terms or at all. Accordingly, we may not be able to adjust our owned and leased property portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or other conditions. Our efforts to develop, redevelop or renovate our owned and leased properties could be delayed or become more expensive than anticipated. Certain of our owned and leased properties were constructed many years ago. The condition of aging properties could negatively affect our ability to attract guests or result in higher operating and capital costs, either of which could reduce revenues or profits from these properties. There can be no assurance that our planned replacements and repairs will occur, or even if completed, will result in improved performance. In addition, these efforts are subject to a number of risks, including: • construction delays or cost overruns (including labor and materials); • obtaining zoning, occupancy and other required permits or authorizations; • changes in economic conditions that may result in weakened or lack of demand for improvements that we make or negative project returns; • governmental restrictions on the size or kind of development; • volatility in the debt and capital markets that may limit our ability to raise capital for projects or improvements; • lack of availability of rooms or meeting spaces for revenue-generating activities during construction, modernization or renovation projects; • force majeure events, including earthquakes, tornadoes, hurricanes, wildfires, floods or tsunamis, or acts of terrorism; and • design defects that could increase costs. If our owned and leased properties are not updated to meet guest preferences, if properties under development or renovation are delayed in opening as scheduled or if renovation investments adversely affect or fail to improve performance, our operations and financial results could be negatively affected. Our properties may not be permitted to be rebuilt if destroyed. Certain of our properties may qualify as legally-permissible nonconforming uses and improvements. If a substantial portion of any such property were to be destroyed by fire or other casualty, including climate-related events, we might not be permitted to rebuild that property as it now exists or at all, regardless of the availability of insurance proceeds. Any loss of this nature, whether insured or not, could materially adversely affect our results of operations and prospects. We have investments in joint venture projects, which limits our ability to manage third-party risks associated with these projects. In most cases, we are minority participants and do not control the decisions of the joint ventures in which we are involved. Therefore, joint venture investments may involve risks such as the possibility that a co-venturer in an investment might become bankrupt, be unable to meet its capital contribution obligations, have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our business interests or goals or take actions that are contrary to our instructions or to applicable laws and regulations. In addition, we may be unable to take action without the approval of our joint venture partners, or our joint venture 27 partners could take actions binding on the joint venture without our consent. Consequently, actions by a co-venturer or other third party could expose us to claims for damages, financial penalties and reputational harm, any of which could adversely affect our business and operations. In addition, we may agree to guarantee indebtedness incurred by a joint venture or co-venturer or provide standard indemnifications to lenders for loss liability or damage occurring as a result of our actions or actions of the joint venture or other co-venturers. Such a guarantee or indemnity may be on a joint and several basis with a co-venturer, in which case we may be liable in the event that our co-venturer defaults on its guarantee obligation. The non-performance of a co-venturer's obligations may cause losses to us in excess of the capital we initially may have invested or committed. Although our joint ventures may generate positive cash flow, in some cases they may be unable to distribute that cash to us or the other joint venture partners. Additionally, in some cases our joint venture partners control distributions and may choose to leave capital in the joint venture rather than distribute it. Because our ability to generate liquidity from our joint ventures depends in part on their ability to distribute capital to us, our failure to receive distributions from our joint venture partners could reduce our cash flow return on these investments. Failures in, material damage to or interruptions in our information technology systems, software or websites and difficulties in updating our existing software or developing or implementing new software could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. We depend heavily upon our information technology systems in the conduct of our business. We develop, own and license or otherwise contract for sophisticated technology systems and services for property management, procurement, finance, human resources, reservations, distribution and the operation of the Hilton Honors guest loyalty program. Such systems are subject to, among other things, damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, third-party criminal activity including "ransomware" or other malware and natural and man-made disasters. Although we have a cold disaster recovery site in a separate location and cloud backup processes to back up our core reservation, distribution and financial systems, our data center operations are currently located in a single facility or with a single cloud-based provider. Although we continue to renovate and migrate portions of our operations to cloud-based providers while simultaneously building and operating new applications and services with those cloud-based providers, any loss or damage to our primary physical or cloud-based facilities could result in operational disruption and data loss as we transfer production operations to our disaster recovery site or cloud providers. Damage or interruption to our information systems may require a significant investment to update, remediate or replace with alternate systems, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations as a result. In addition, costs and potential problems or interruptions associated with the implementation of new or upgraded systems and technology or with maintenance or support of existing systems could also disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations. Any material interruptions or failures in our systems, including those that may result from our failure to adequately develop, implement and maintain a robust disaster recovery plan and backup systems could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, have a material adverse effect on our business operations and financial performance. We rely on third parties for the performance of a significant portion of our information technology functions worldwide. In particular, our loyalty platform and reservation and distribution system rely on data communications networks and systems operated by unaffiliated third parties and cloud providers. The success of our business depends in part on maintaining our relationships with these third parties and their continuing ability to perform these functions and services in a timely and satisfactory manner. If we experience a loss or disruption in the provision of any of these functions or services, or they are not performed in a satisfactory manner, we may have difficulty in finding alternate providers on terms favorable to us, in a timely manner or at all, and our business could be adversely affected. We rely on certain software vendors to maintain and periodically upgrade many of these systems and applications so that they can continue to support our business. The software programs supporting many of our systems were licensed to us by independent software developers. The inability of these developers or us to continue to maintain and upgrade these information systems and software programs would disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations if we were unable to convert to alternate systems in an efficient and timely manner. We are vulnerable to various risks and uncertainties associated with our websites and mobile applications, including changes in required technology interfaces, website and mobile application downtime and other technical failures, costs and issues as we upgrade our website software and mobile applications. Additional risks include computer malware, changes in applicable federal, state and international regulations, security breaches, legal claims related to our website operations and e-commerce fulfillment and other consumer privacy concerns. Our failure to successfully respond to these risks and uncertainties could reduce website and mobile application sales and have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. 28 Cyber-attacks could have a disruptive effect on our business. From time to time we and our third-party service providers experience cyber-attacks, attempted and actual breaches of our or their information technology systems and networks or similar events, which could result in a loss of sensitive business or customer information, systems interruption or the disruption of our operations. The techniques that are used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems change frequently and may be difficult to detect for long periods of time, and despite our deployment of cyber-attack prevention and detection techniques, we are accordingly unable to anticipate and prevent all data security incidents. We have in the past been subject to cyber-attacks and expect that we will be subject to additional cyber-attacks in the future and may experience data breaches. Even if we are fully compliant with legal standards and contractual or other requirements, we still may not be able to prevent security breaches involving sensitive data. The sophistication of efforts by hackers to gain unauthorized access to information systems has continued to increase in recent years and may continue to do so. Breaches, thefts, losses or fraudulent uses of customer, employee or company data could cause consumers to lose confidence in the security of our websites, mobile applications, point of sale systems and other information technology systems and choose not to purchase from us. Such security breaches also could expose us to risks of data loss, business disruption, litigation and other costs or liabilities, any of which could adversely affect our business. We are exposed to risks and costs associated with protecting the integrity and security of our guests’ personal data and other sensitive information. We are subject to various risks and costs associated with the collection, handling, storage and transmission of sensitive information, including those related to compliance with U.S. and foreign data collection and privacy laws and other contractual obligations, as well as those associated with the compromise of our systems collecting such information. Many jurisdictions, including the E.U., California and Nevada, have passed laws that require companies to meet specific requirements regarding the handling of personal data. We collect internal and customer data, including credit card numbers and other personally identifiable information for a variety of important business purposes, including managing our workforce, providing requested products and services and maintaining guest preferences to enhance customer service and for marketing and promotion purposes. We could be exposed to fines, penalties, restrictions, litigation, reputational harm or other expenses, or other adverse effects on our business, due to failure to protect our guests' personal data and other sensitive information or failure to maintain compliance with the various U.S. and foreign data collection and privacy laws or with credit card industry standards or other applicable data security standards. In addition, U.S. states and the federal government have enacted additional laws and regulations to protect consumers against identity theft. These laws and similar laws in other jurisdictions have increased the costs of doing business, and failure on our part to implement appropriate safeguards or to detect and provide prompt notice of unauthorized access as required by some of these laws could subject us to potential claims for damages and other remedies. If we were required to pay any significant amounts in satisfaction of claims under these laws, or if we were forced to cease our business operations for any length of time as a result of our inability to comply fully with any such law, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. Failure to keep pace with developments in technology could adversely affect our operations or competitive position. The hospitality industry demands the use of sophisticated technology and systems for property management, brand assurance and compliance, procurement, reservation systems, operation of our guest loyalty programs, distribution of hotel resources to current and future customers and guest amenities. These technologies may require refinements and upgrades, and third parties may cease support of systems that are currently in use. The development and maintenance of these technologies may require significant investment by us. As various systems and technologies become outdated or new technology is required, we may not be able to replace or introduce them as quickly as needed or in a cost-effective and timely manner. In some cases, hotel owners may refuse to upgrade systems or deploy new technology to replace aging or end-of-life software and/or hardware. As a result, we may not achieve the benefits we may have been anticipating from any new technology or system. Because third parties provide us with a number of operational and technical services, third-party security incidents could expose us to liability, harm our reputation, damage our competitiveness and adversely affect our financial performance. Third parties provide us with certain operational and technical services. These third parties may have access to our systems, provide hosting services, or otherwise process data about us or our guests, employees or partners. Any third-party security incident could compromise the integrity or availability of or result in the theft of, confidential or otherwise sensitive data, which could negatively impact our operations. Unauthorized access to data and other confidential or proprietary information may be 29 obtained through break-ins, network breaches by unauthorized parties, employee theft or misuse, or other misconduct. We rely on the internal processes and controls of third-party software and application vendors to maintain the security of all software code provided to or used by Hilton. Should those vendors fail to follow security best practices to secure their products then we are at risk of unintentionally injecting malware into our systems via compromised software code they provide. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could negatively affect our reputation, our competitive position and our financial performance, and we could face lawsuits and potential liability. Delays in service from third-party service providers could expose us to liability, harm our reputation, damage our competitiveness and adversely affect our financial performance. From time to time, we may rely on a single or limited number of suppliers for the provision of various services that we use in the operation of our business. The inability of such third parties to satisfy our or our guests' requirements could disrupt our business operations or make it more difficult for us to implement our business strategy. If any of these situations were to occur, our reputation could be harmed, we could be subject to third-party liability, including under data protection and privacy laws in certain jurisdictions, and our financial performance could be negatively affected. We may seek to expand through acquisitions of and investments in other businesses and properties, or through alliances, and we may also seek to divest some of our properties and other assets. These acquisition and disposition activities may be unsuccessful or divert management’s attention. We may consider strategic and complementary acquisitions of and investments in other hotel or hospitality brands, businesses, properties or other assets. Furthermore, we may pursue these opportunities in alliance with existing or prospective owners of managed or franchised properties. In many cases, we could be competing for these opportunities with third parties that may have substantially greater financial resources than us. Acquisitions or investments in brands, businesses, properties or assets as well as third-party alliances are subject to risks that could affect our business, including risks related to: • issuing shares of stock that could dilute the interests of our existing stockholders; • spending cash and incurring debt; • assuming contingent liabilities; or • creating additional expenses. We may not be able to identify opportunities or complete transactions on commercially reasonable terms or at all or we may not actually realize any anticipated benefits from such acquisitions, investments or alliances. Similarly, we may not be able to obtain financing for acquisitions or investments on attractive terms or at all, or the ability to obtain financing may be restricted by the terms of our indebtedness. In addition, the success of any acquisition or investment also will depend, in part, on our ability to integrate the acquisition or investment with our existing operations. We also may divest certain properties or assets, and any such divestments may yield lower than expected returns or otherwise fail to achieve the benefits we expect. In some circumstances, sales of properties or other assets may result in losses. Upon sales of properties or assets, we may become subject to contractual indemnity obligations, incur material tax liabilities or, as a result of required debt repayment, face a shortage of liquidity. Finally, any acquisitions, investments or dispositions could demand significant attention from management that would otherwise be available for business operations, which could harm our business. Failure to comply with marketing and advertising laws, including with regard to direct marketing, could result in fines or place restrictions on our business. We rely on a variety of direct marketing techniques, including telemarketing, email and social media marketing and postal mailings, and we are subject to various laws and regulations in the U.S. and internationally that govern marketing and advertising practices. Any further restrictions in laws and court or agency interpretations of such laws, such as the Telephone Consumer Protection Act of 1991, the Telemarketing Sales Rule, CAN-SPAM Act of 2003, and various U.S. state laws, new laws or international data protection laws, such as the E.U. GDPR, that govern these activities could adversely affect current or planned marketing activities and cause us to change our marketing strategy. If this occurs, we may not be able to develop adequate alternative marketing strategies, which could affect our ability to maintain relationships with our customers and acquire new customers. We also obtain access to names of potential customers from travel service providers or other 30 companies, and we market to some individuals on these lists directly or through other companies’ marketing materials. If access to these lists were prohibited or otherwise restricted, our ability to develop new customers and introduce them to products could be impaired. The growth of internet reservation channels could adversely affect our business and profitability. A significant percentage of hotel rooms for individual guests are booked through internet travel intermediaries, to whom we commit to pay various commissions and transaction fees for sales of our rooms through their systems. Search engines and peer-to-peer inventory sources also provide online travel services that compete with our business. If these bookings increase, these hospitality intermediaries may be able to obtain higher commissions or other significant concessions from us or our franchisees. These hospitality intermediaries also may reduce bookings at our hotel properties by de-ranking our hotels in search results on their platforms, and other online providers may divert business away from our hotels. Although our contracts with many hospitality intermediaries limit transaction fees for hotels, there can be no assurance that we will be able to renegotiate these contracts upon their expiration with terms as favorable as the provisions that existed before the expiration, replacement or renegotiation. Moreover, hospitality intermediaries generally employ aggressive marketing strategies, including expending significant resources for online and television advertising campaigns to drive consumers to their websites. As a result, consumers may develop brand loyalties to the intermediaries’ brands, websites and reservations systems rather than to the Hilton brands and systems. If this happens, our business and profitability may be significantly affected over time as shifting customer loyalties divert bookings away from our websites, which increases costs to hotels in our system. Internet travel intermediaries also have been subject to regulatory scrutiny, particularly in Europe. The outcome of this regulatory activity may affect our ability to compete for direct bookings through our own internet channels. In addition, although internet travel intermediaries have traditionally competed to attract individual leisure consumers or "transient" business rather than "group" business for meetings and events, in recent years they have expanded their business to include marketing to group business and also to corporate transient business. If that growth continues, it could both divert group and corporate transient business away from our hotels and also increase our cost of sales for group and corporate transient business. Consolidation of internet travel intermediaries, or the entry of major internet companies into the internet travel bookings business, also could divert bookings away from our websites and increase our hotels' cost of sales. Our reservation system is an important component of our business operations and a disruption to its functioning could have an adverse effect on our performance and results. We manage a global reservation system that communicates reservations to our branded hotels when made by individuals directly, either online, by telephone to our call centers, through devices via our mobile application, or through intermediaries like travel agents, internet travel websites and other distribution channels. The cost, speed, efficacy and efficiency of the reservation system are important aspects of our business and are important considerations of hotel owners in choosing to affiliate with our brands. Any failure to maintain or upgrade, and any other disruption to our reservation system may adversely affect our business. The cessation, reduction or taxation of program benefits of our Hilton Honors guest loyalty program could adversely affect the Hilton brands and guest loyalty. We manage the Hilton Honors guest loyalty program for all of the brands that we operate. Program members accumulate points primarily based on eligible stays and hotel charges and redeem the points for a range of benefits including free rooms and other items of value. The program is an important aspect of our business and of the affiliation value for hotel owners under management and franchise contracts. System hotels, including, without limitation, third-party hotels under management and franchise contracts, contribute a percentage of the loyalty member's charges to the program for each stay of a program member. In addition to the accumulation of points for future hotel stays at our brands, Hilton Honors arranges with third parties, such as airlines, other transportation services, online vendors, retailers and credit card companies, to sell Hilton Honors points for the use of their customers and/or to allow Hilton Honors members to use or exchange points for products or services. Currently, the program benefits are not taxed as income to members. If the program awards and benefits are materially altered, curtailed or taxed such that a material number of Hilton Honors members choose to no longer participate in the program, this could adversely affect our business. 31 Because we derive a portion of our revenues from operations outside the U.S. the risks of doing business internationally could lower our revenues, increase our costs, reduce our profits or disrupt our business. We currently manage, franchise, own or lease hotels and resorts in 119 countries and territories around the world. Our rooms outside the U.S. represented approximately 28 percent, 28 percent and 27 percent of our system-wide rooms for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. We expect that our international operations will continue to account for a material portion of our results. As a result, we are subject to the risks of doing business outside the U.S., including: • rapid changes in governmental, economic or political policy, political or civil unrest, acts of terrorism or the threat of international boycotts or U.S. anti-boycott legislation; • increases in anti-American sentiment and the identification of our licensed brands as an American brand; • recessionary trends or economic instability in international markets; • changes in foreign currency exchange rates or currency restructurings and hyperinflation or deflation in the countries in which we operate; • the effect of disruptions, including the temporary closure of hotel properties, caused by severe weather or climate-related events, natural disasters, outbreak of disease, such as COVID-19, or other events that make travel to a particular region less attractive or more difficult; • the presence and acceptance of varying levels of business corruption in international markets and the effect of various anti-corruption and other laws; • • the imposition of restrictions on currency conversion or the transfer of funds or limitations on our ability to repatriate non-U.S. earnings in a tax-efficient manner; • the ability to comply with or the effect of complying with complex and changing laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments that may affect investments or operations, including foreign ownership restrictions, import and export controls, tariffs, embargoes, increases in taxes paid and other changes in applicable tax laws; • the ability to comply with or the effect of complying with developing laws, regulations and policies of foreign governments with respect to human rights, including in the supply chain; • instability or changes in a country's or region's economic, regulatory or political conditions, including inflation, recession, interest rate fluctuations and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts or any other change; • political, economic and other uncertainty resulting from the U.K.'s exit from the E.U. (commonly known as "Brexit"), the terms of which remain uncertain and could adversely affect our business; • uncertainties as to local laws regarding, and enforcement of, contract and IP rights; • forced nationalization of our properties by local, state or national governments; and • the difficulties involved in managing an organization doing business in many different countries. These factors may adversely affect the revenues earned from our hotels and resorts (as well as the market value of properties that we own or lease) located in international markets. While these factors and the effect of these factors are difficult to predict, any one or more of them could lower our revenues, increase our costs, reduce our profits or disrupt our business operations. Failure to comply with laws and regulations applicable to our international operations may increase costs, reduce profits, limit growth or subject us to broader liability. Our business operations in countries outside the U.S. are subject to a number of laws and regulations, including restrictions imposed by the FCPA, as well as trade sanctions administered by OFAC. Although we have policies in place designed to comply with applicable sanctions, rules and regulations, it is possible that hotels we manage or own in the countries and 32 territories in which we operate may provide services to or receive funds from persons subject to sanctions. Where we have identified potential violations in the past, we have taken appropriate remedial action including filing voluntary disclosures to OFAC. In addition, some of our operations may be subject to the laws and regulations of non-U.S. jurisdictions, including the U.K.’s Bribery Act 2010, which contains significant prohibitions on bribery and other corrupt business activities, and other local anti-corruption laws in the countries and territories in which we conduct operations. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could be exposed to claims for damages, financial penalties, reputational harm and incarceration of employees or restrictions on our operation or ownership of hotels and other properties, including the termination of management, franchising and ownership rights. In addition, in certain circumstances, the actions of parties affiliated with us (including our owners, joint venture partners, employees and agents) may expose us to liability under the FCPA, U.S. sanctions or other laws. These restrictions could increase costs of operations, reduce profits or cause us to forgo development opportunities that would otherwise support growth. In August 2012, Congress enacted the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 ("ITRSHRA"), which expands the scope of U.S. sanctions against Iran and Syria. In particular, Section 219 of the ITRSHRA amended the Exchange Act to require SEC-reporting companies to disclose in their periodic reports specified dealings or transactions involving Iran or other individuals and entities targeted by certain OFAC sanctions engaged in by the reporting company or any of its affiliates. These companies are required to separately file with the SEC a notice that such activities have been disclosed in the relevant periodic report, and the SEC is required to post this notice of disclosure on its website and send the report to the U.S. President and certain U.S. Congressional committees. The U.S. President thereafter is required to initiate an investigation and, within 180 days of initiating such an investigation with respect to certain disclosed activities, to determine whether sanctions should be imposed. Under ITRSHRA, we are required to report if we or any of our "affiliates" knowingly engaged in certain specified activities during a period covered by one of our Annual Reports on Form 10-K or Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q. We have engaged in, and may in the future engage in, activities that would require disclosure pursuant to Section 219 of ITRSHRA. Disclosure of such activities, even if such activities are permissible under applicable law, and any sanctions imposed on us or our affiliates as a result of these activities, could harm our reputation and brands and have a negative effect on our results of operations. In addition, we are subject to a number of modern slavery, human trafficking and forced labor reporting, training and due diligence laws in various jurisdictions and expect additional statutory regimes to combat these crimes to be enacted in the future. The impact of laws, such as the U.K's Modern Slavery Act 2015, Australia's Modern Slavery Bill 2018, and similar legislation on hotel operations, as well as supply chain, could increase costs of operations and reduce profits. The loss of senior executives could significantly harm our business. Our ability to maintain our competitive position depends somewhat on the efforts and abilities of our senior executives. Finding suitable replacements for senior executives could be difficult. Losing the services of one or more of these senior executives could adversely affect strategic relationships, including relationships with third-party property owners, significant customers, joint venture partners and vendors, and limit our ability to execute our business strategies. Collective bargaining activity could disrupt our operations, increase our labor costs or interfere with the ability of our management to focus on executing our business strategies. A significant number of our employees (approximately 35 percent) and employees of our hotel owners are covered by collective bargaining agreements and similar agreements. If relationships with our employees or employees of our hotel owners or the unions that represent them become adverse, the properties we manage, franchise, own or lease could experience labor disruptions such as strikes, lockouts, boycotts and public demonstrations. A number of our collective bargaining agreements, representing approximately 20 percent of our organized employees, have expired and are in the process of being renegotiated, and we may be required to negotiate additional collective bargaining agreements in the future if more employees become unionized. Labor disputes, which may be more likely when collective bargaining agreements are being negotiated, could harm our relationship with our employees or employees of our hotel owners, result in increased regulatory inquiries and enforcement by governmental authorities and deter guests. Further, adverse publicity related to a labor dispute could harm our reputation and reduce customer demand for our services. Labor regulation and the negotiation of new or existing collective bargaining agreements could lead to higher wage and benefit costs, changes in work rules that raise operating expenses, legal costs and limitations on our ability or the ability of our third-party property owners to take cost saving measures during economic downturns. We do not have the ability to influence the negotiations of collective bargaining agreements covering unionized labor employed by third-party property owners. Increased unionization of our workforce, new labor legislation or changes in 33 regulations could disrupt our operations and our ability to promote services expected by customers, reduce our profitability or interfere with the ability of our management to focus on executing our business strategies. Labor shortages could restrict our ability to operate our properties or grow our business or result in increased labor costs that could adversely affect our results of operations. Our success depends in large part on our ability to attract, retain, train, manage and engage employees. We employ or manage approximately 141,000 individuals at our managed, owned and leased hotels and corporate offices around the world. If we are unable to attract, retain, train, manage and engage skilled individuals, our ability to staff and manage the hotels that we manage, own and lease could be impaired, which could reduce customer satisfaction. In addition, the inability of our franchisees to attract, retain, train, manage and engage skilled employees for the franchised hotels could adversely affect the reputation of our brands. Staffing shortages in various parts of the world also could hinder our ability to grow and expand our businesses. Because payroll costs are a major component of the operating expenses at our hotels and our franchised hotels, a shortage of skilled labor could also require higher wages that would increase labor costs, which could adversely affect our results of operations and the results of hotels that we manage on behalf of third-party owners. Additionally, an increase in minimum wage rates could increase costs and reduce profits for us and our franchisees. Any failure to protect our trademarks and other IP could reduce the value of the Hilton brands and harm our business. The recognition and reputation of our brands are important to our success. We have a significant number of trademark registrations in jurisdictions around the world for use in connection with our services, plus at any given time, a number of pending applications for trademarks and other IP. However, those trademark or other IP registrations may not be granted or the steps we take to use, control or protect our trademarks or other IP in the U.S. and other jurisdictions may not always be adequate to prevent third parties from copying or using the trademarks or other IP without authorization. We may also fail to obtain and maintain trademark protection for all of our brands in all jurisdictions. For example, in certain jurisdictions, third parties have registered or otherwise have the right to use certain trademarks that are the same as or similar to our trademarks, which could prevent us from registering trademarks and opening hotels in that jurisdiction. Third parties may also challenge our rights to certain trademarks or oppose our trademark applications. Defending against any such proceedings may be costly, and if unsuccessful, could result in the loss of important IP rights. Obtaining and maintaining trademark protection for multiple brands in multiple jurisdictions is also expensive, and we may therefore elect not to apply for or to maintain certain trademarks. Our IP is also vulnerable to unauthorized copying or use in some jurisdictions outside the U.S., where local law, or lax enforcement of law, may not provide adequate protection. If our trademarks or other IP are improperly used, the value and reputation of the Hilton brands could be harmed. There are times where we may need to resort to litigation to enforce our IP rights. Litigation of this type could be costly, force us to divert our resources, lead to counterclaims or other claims against us or otherwise harm our business or reputation. In addition, we license certain of our trademarks to third parties. For example, we have granted HGV the right to use certain of our marks and IP in its timeshare business and we grant our franchisees a right to use certain of our trademarks in connection with their operation of the applicable property. If HGV, a franchisee or other licensee fails to maintain the quality of the goods and services used in connection with the licensed trademarks, our rights to, and the value of, our trademarks could be harmed. Failure to maintain, control and protect our trademarks and other IP could likely adversely affect our ability to attract guests or third-party owners, and could adversely affect our results. In addition, we license the right to use certain IP from unaffiliated third parties, including the right to grant sublicenses to franchisees. If we are unable to use this IP, our ability to generate revenue from such properties may be diminished. Third-party claims that we infringe IP rights of others could subject us to damages and other costs and expenses. Third parties may make claims against us for infringing their patent, trademark, copyright or other IP rights or for misappropriating their trade secrets. We have been and are currently party to a number of such claims and may receive additional claims in the future. Any such claims, even those without merit, could: • be expensive and time consuming to defend, and result in significant damages; • force us to stop using the IP that is being challenged or to stop providing products or services that use the challenged IP; • force us to redesign or rebrand our products or services; 34 • require us to enter into royalty, licensing, co-existence or other contracts to obtain the right to use a third party’s IP; • limit our ability to develop new IP; and • limit the use or the scope of our IP or other rights. In addition, we may be required to indemnify third-party owners of the hotels that we manage for any losses they incur as a result of any infringement claims against them. All necessary royalty, licensing or other contracts may not be available to us on acceptable terms. Any adverse results associated with third-party IP claims could negatively affect our business. Exchange rate fluctuations and foreign exchange hedging arrangements could result in significant foreign currency gains and losses and affect our business results. Conducting business in currencies other than the U.S. dollar ("USD") subjects us to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could have a negative effect on our financial results. We earn revenues and incur expenses in foreign currencies as part of our operations outside of the U.S. As a result, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may significantly increase the amount of U.S. dollars required for foreign currency expenses or significantly decrease the U.S. dollars received from foreign currency revenues. We also have exposure to currency translation risk because, generally, the results of our business outside of the U.S. are reported in local currency and then translated to U.S. dollars for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. As a result, changes between the foreign exchange rates and the U.S. dollar will affect the recorded amounts of our foreign assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and could have a negative effect on our financial results. Our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations will grow if the relative contribution of our operations outside the U.S. increases. To mitigate foreign currency exposure, we may enter into foreign exchange derivatives with financial institutions. However, these derivatives may not eliminate foreign currency risk entirely and involve costs and risks of their own in the form of transaction costs, credit requirements and counterparty risk. If the insurance that we or our owners carry does not sufficiently cover damage or other potential losses or liabilities to third parties involving properties that we manage, franchise, own or lease, our profits could be reduced. We operate in certain areas where the risk of natural or climate-related disaster or other catastrophic losses exists, and the occasional incidence of such an event could cause substantial damage to us, our owners or the surrounding area. We carry, and/or we require our owners to carry, insurance from solvent insurance carriers that we believe is adequate for foreseeable first-party and third-party losses and with terms and conditions that are reasonable and customary. Nevertheless, market forces beyond our control, such as the natural and man-made disasters and infectious diseases that occurred in 2020, could limit the scope of the insurance coverage that we and our owners can obtain or may otherwise restrict our or our owners' ability to buy insurance coverage at reasonable rates. We anticipate increased costs of property and excess liability insurance across the portfolio in 2021 due to the significant losses that insurers suffered globally in 2020 and prior periods. In the event of a substantial loss, the insurance coverage that we and/or our owners carry may not be sufficient to pay the full value of our financial obligations, our liabilities or the replacement cost of any lost investment or property. Additionally, certain types of losses may be uninsurable or prohibitively expensive to insure. In addition, there are other risks that may fall outside the general coverage terms and limits of our policies. In some cases, these factors could result in certain losses being completely uninsured. As a result, we or owners of hotels that we manage or franchise could lose some or all of the capital we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenues, profits, management fees or franchise fees from the property. Terrorist attacks and military conflicts may adversely affect the hospitality industry. The terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon on September 11, 2001 underscore the possibility that large public facilities or economically important assets could become the target of terrorist attacks in the future. In particular, properties that are well-known or are located in concentrated business sectors in major cities where our hotels are located may be subject to the risk of terrorist attacks. The occurrence or the possibility of terrorist attacks or military conflicts could: • cause damage to one or more of our properties that may not be fully covered by insurance to the value of the damages; 35 • cause all or portions of affected properties to be shut down for prolonged periods, resulting in a loss of income; • generally reduce travel to affected areas for tourism and business or adversely affect the willingness of customers to stay in or avail themselves of the services of the affected properties; • expose us to a risk of monetary claims arising out of death, injury or damage to property caused by any such attacks; and • result in higher costs for security and insurance premiums or diminish the availability of insurance coverage for losses related to terrorist attacks, particularly for properties in target areas, all of which could adversely affect our results. The occurrence of a terrorist attack with respect to one of our properties could directly and materially adversely affect our results of operations. Furthermore, the loss of any of our well-known buildings could indirectly affect the value of our brands, which would in turn adversely affect our business prospects. Terrorism insurance may not be available at commercially reasonable rates or at all. Following the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks in New York City and the Washington, D.C. area, Congress passed the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002, which established the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program (the "Program") to provide insurance capacity for terrorist acts. The Program was most recently reauthorized, with some adjustments to its provisions, in December 2019 for seven years through December 31, 2027. We carry, and we require our owners and our franchisees to carry, insurance from solvent insurance carriers to respond to both first-party and third-party liability losses related to terrorism. We purchase our first-party property damage and business interruption insurance from a stand-alone market in place of and to supplement insurance from government run pools. If the Program is not extended or renewed upon its expiration in 2027, or if there are changes to the Program that would negatively affect insurance carriers, premiums for terrorism insurance coverage will likely increase and/or the terms of such insurance may be materially amended to increase stated exclusions or to otherwise effectively decrease the scope of coverage available, perhaps to the point where it is effectively unavailable. Changes in U.S. federal, state and local or foreign tax law, interpretations of existing tax law or adverse determinations by tax authorities, could increase our tax burden or otherwise adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. We are subject to taxation at the federal, state or provincial and local levels in the U.S. and various other countries and jurisdictions. Our future effective tax rate could be affected by changes in the composition of earnings in jurisdictions with differing tax rates, changes in statutory rates and other legislative changes, changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in determinations regarding the jurisdictions in which we are subject to tax. From time to time, the U.S. federal, state and local and foreign governments make substantive changes to tax rules and their application, which could result in materially higher corporate taxes than would be incurred under existing tax law and could adversely affect our financial condition or results of operations. We are subject to ongoing and periodic tax audits and disputes in U.S. federal and various state, local and foreign jurisdictions. In particular, our consolidated U.S. federal income tax returns for the fiscal years ended December 31, 2005 through December 31, 2018 are under audit by the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS"), and the IRS has proposed adjustments to increase our taxable income based on several assertions involving intercompany loans and our Hilton Honors guest loyalty program. In total, the proposed adjustments sought by the IRS would result in U.S. federal tax owed of approximately $817 million, excluding interest and penalties and potential state income taxes. We disagree with the IRS’s position on each of the assertions and intend to vigorously contest them. See Note 13: "Income Taxes" in our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information. An unfavorable outcome from any tax audit could result in higher tax costs, penalties and interest, thereby adversely affecting our financial condition or results of operations. Changes to accounting rules or regulations may adversely affect our reported financial condition and results of operations. New accounting rules or regulations and varying interpretations of existing accounting rules or regulations have occurred and may occur in the future. A change in accounting rules or regulations may require retrospective application and affect our reporting of transactions completed before the change is effective, and future changes to accounting rules or regulations may adversely affect our reported financial condition and results of operations. 36 Changes to estimates or projections used to assess the fair value of our assets, or operating results that are lower than our current estimates at certain locations, may cause us to incur impairment losses that could adversely affect our results of operations. Our total assets include goodwill, intangible assets with indefinite useful lives, other intangible assets with finite useful lives, as well as long-lived assets, principally property and equipment and operating lease right-of-use ("ROU") assets related to leased hotels. We evaluate our goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment on an annual basis or at other times during the year if indicators of impairment exist. We evaluate our intangible assets with finite useful lives and long-lived assets for impairment when circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Our evaluation of impairment requires us to make certain estimates and assumptions including projections of future results. After performing our evaluation for impairment, including an analysis to determine the recoverability of long-lived assets, we will record an impairment loss when the carrying value of the underlying asset, asset group or reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value. If the estimates or assumptions used in our evaluation of impairment change, we may be required to record additional impairment losses on certain of these assets. If these impairment losses are significant, our results of operations would be adversely affected. Legal and Regulatory Risks Governmental regulation may adversely affect the operation of our properties. In many jurisdictions, the hospitality industry is subject to extensive foreign or U.S. federal, state and local governmental regulations, including those relating to the service of alcoholic beverages, the preparation and sale of food and those relating to building and zoning requirements. These requirements are complex and subject to frequent change, often in connection with changes in the U.S. presidential administration. We are also subject to licensing and regulation by foreign or U.S. state and local departments relating to health, sanitation, fire and safety standards, and to laws governing our relationships with employees, including minimum wage requirements, overtime, working conditions status and citizenship requirements. We or our third-party owners may be required to expend funds to meet foreign or U.S. federal, state and local regulations in connection with the construction, continued operation or remodeling of certain of our properties. The failure to meet the requirements of applicable regulations and licensing requirements, or publicity resulting from actual or alleged failures, could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Foreign or U.S. environmental laws and regulations may cause us to incur substantial costs or subject us to potential liabilities. We are subject to certain compliance costs and potential liabilities under various foreign and U.S. federal, state and local environmental, health and safety laws and regulations. These laws and regulations govern actions including air emissions, the use, storage and disposal of hazardous and toxic substances and wastewater disposal. Our failure to comply with such laws, including obtaining and maintaining any required permits or licenses, could result in substantial fines or possible revocation of our authority to conduct some of our operations. We could also be liable under such laws for the costs of investigation, removal or remediation of hazardous or toxic substances at our currently or formerly owned, leased or operated real property (including managed and franchised properties) or at third-party locations in connection with our waste disposal operations, regardless of whether or not we knew of, or caused, the presence or release of such substances. From time to time, we may be required to remediate such substances or remove, abate or manage asbestos, mold, radon gas, lead or other hazardous conditions at our properties. The presence or release of such toxic or hazardous substances could result in third-party claims for personal injury, property or natural resource damages, business interruption or other losses. Such claims and the need to investigate, remediate or otherwise address hazardous, toxic or unsafe conditions could adversely affect our operations, the value of any affected real property, or our ability to sell, lease or assign our rights in any such property, or could otherwise harm our business or reputation. Environmental, health and safety requirements have also become increasingly stringent, and our costs to comply with such requirements may increase as a result. New or revised laws and regulations or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, such as those related to climate change, could affect the operation of our properties or result in significant additional expense and operating restrictions on us. The cost of compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and similar legislation outside of the U.S. may be substantial. We are subject to the Americans with Disabilities Act ("ADA") and similar legislation in certain jurisdictions outside of the U.S. Under the ADA all public accommodations are required to meet certain federal requirements related to access and use by disabled persons. These regulations apply to accommodations first occupied after January 26, 1993; public accommodations 37 built before January 26, 1993 are required to remove architectural barriers to disabled access where such removal is "readily achievable." The regulations also mandate certain operational requirements that hotel operators must observe. The failure of a property to comply with the ADA could result in injunctive relief, fines, an award of damages to private litigants or mandated capital expenditures to remedy such noncompliance. Any imposition of injunctive relief, fines, damage awards or capital expenditures could adversely affect the ability of an owner or franchisee to make payments under the applicable management or franchise contract and negatively affect the reputation of our brands. In November 2010, we entered into a settlement with the U.S. Department of Justice related to compliance with the ADA. Our obligations under this settlement expired in March 2015 except that certain managed and franchised hotels that were required to conduct surveys of their facilities remain under an obligation to remove architectural barriers at their facilities through March 15, 2022 and we have an obligation to have an independent consultant to monitor those barrier removal efforts during this period. If we fail to comply with the requirements of the ADA, we could be subject to fines, penalties, injunctive action, reputational harm and other business effects that could materially and negatively affect our performance and results of operations. We are subject to risks from litigation filed by or against us. Legal or governmental proceedings brought by or on behalf of franchisees, third-party owners of managed properties and landlords at leased properties, employees or customers may adversely affect our financial results. In recent years, we and other hospitality companies have been subject to lawsuits, including class action lawsuits, alleging violations of federal laws and regulations regarding workplace and employment matters, consumer protection claims and other commercial matters. A number of these lawsuits have resulted in the payment of substantial damages by the defendants. Similar lawsuits have been and may be instituted against us from time to time, and we may incur substantial damages and expenses resulting from lawsuits of this type, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. At any given time, we may be engaged in lawsuits or disputes involving third-party owners of our hotels. Similarly, we may from time to time institute legal proceedings on behalf of ourselves or others, the ultimate outcome of which could cause us to incur substantial damages and expenses, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Risks Related to Our Spin-offs The spin-offs could result in substantial tax liability to us and our stockholders. We received a private letter ruling from the IRS on certain issues relevant to qualification of the spin-offs as tax-free distributions under Section 355 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"). Although the private letter ruling generally is binding on the IRS, the continued validity of the private letter ruling will be based upon and subject to the accuracy of factual statements and representations made to the IRS by us. Further, the private letter ruling is limited to specified aspects of the spin-offs under Section 355 of the Code and does not represent a determination by the IRS that all of the requirements necessary to obtain tax-free treatment to holders of our common stock and to us have been satisfied. Moreover, if any statement or representation upon which the private letter ruling was based was incorrect or untrue in any material respect, or if the facts upon which the private letter ruling was based were materially different from the facts that prevailed at the time of the spin-offs, the private letter ruling could be invalidated. The opinion of tax counsel we received in connection with the spin-offs regarding the qualification of the spin-offs as tax-free distributions under Section 355 of the Code similarly relied on, among other things, the continuing validity of the private letter ruling and various assumptions and representations as to factual matters made by each of the spun-off companies and us which, if inaccurate or incomplete in any material respect, would jeopardize the conclusions reached by counsel in its opinion. The opinion is not binding on the IRS or the courts, and there can be no assurance that the IRS or the courts will not challenge the conclusions stated in the opinion or that any such challenge would not prevail. Additionally, recently enacted legislation denies tax-free treatment to a spin-off in which either the distributing corporation or the spun-off corporation is a REIT and prevents a distributing corporation or a spun-off corporation from electing REIT status for a 10-year period following a tax-free spin-off. Under an effective date provision, the legislation does not apply to distributions described in a ruling request initially submitted to the IRS before December 7, 2015. Because our initial request for the private letter ruling was submitted before that date and because we believe the distribution has been described in that initial request, we believe the legislation does not apply to the spin-off of Park. However, no ruling was obtained on that issue and thus no assurance can be given in that regard. In particular, the IRS or a court could disagree with our view regarding the effective date provision based on any differences that exist between the description in the ruling request and the actual facts relating to the spin-offs. If the legislation applied to the spin-off of Park, either the spin-off would not qualify for tax-free treatment or Park would not be eligible to elect REIT status for a 10-year period following the spin-off. If the spin-offs and certain related transactions were determined to be taxable, the Company would be subject to a substantial tax liability that would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, if the spin-offs were taxable, each holder of our common stock who received shares of Park and HGV would 38 generally be treated as receiving a taxable distribution of property in an amount equal to the fair market value of the shares received. Park or HGV may fail to perform under various transaction agreements that we have executed as part of the spin-offs. In connection with the spin-offs, we, Park and HGV entered into a distribution agreement and various other agreements, including a tax matters agreement, and, as to Park, management agreements, and, as to HGV, a license agreement. We are relying on Park and HGV to satisfy their performance and payment obligations under these agreements. In addition, it is possible that a court would disregard the allocation agreed to between us, Park and HGV and require that we assume responsibility for certain obligations allocated to Park and to HGV, particularly if Park or HGV were to refuse or were unable to pay or perform such obligations. The impact of any of these factors is difficult to predict, but one or more of them could cause reputational harm and could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and/or cash flows. In connection with the spin-offs, each of Park and HGV indemnified us for certain liabilities. These indemnities may not be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of the liabilities assumed by Park and HGV, and Park and HGV may be unable to satisfy their indemnification obligations to us in the future. In connection with the spin-offs, each of Park and HGV indemnified us with respect to such parties’ assumed or retained liabilities pursuant to the distribution agreement and breaches of the distribution agreement or other agreements related to the spin-offs. There can be no assurance that the indemnities from each of Park and HGV will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of these and other liabilities. Third parties also could seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that Park and HGV have agreed to assume. Even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from Park or HGV any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear those losses ourselves. Each of these risks could negatively affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we are required to indemnify Park or HGV in connection with the spin-offs, we may need to divert cash to meet those obligations, which could negatively affect our financial results. Pursuant to the distribution agreement entered into in connection with the spin-offs and certain other agreements among Park and HGV and us, we agreed to indemnify each of Park and HGV from certain liabilities. Indemnities that we may be required to provide Park and/or HGV may be significant and could negatively affect our business. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness Our substantial indebtedness and other contractual obligations could adversely affect our financial condition, our ability to raise additional capital to fund our operations, our ability to operate our business, our ability to react to changes in the economy or our industry and our ability to pay our debts, and could divert our cash flow from operations for debt payments. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2020, our total indebtedness, excluding unamortized deferred financing costs and discount, was approximately $10.6 billion, and our contractual debt maturities of our long-term debt for the years ending December 31, 2021, 2022 and 2023 were $56 million, $29 million and $23 million, respectively. Our substantial debt and other contractual obligations could have important consequences, including: • requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, capital expenditures or dividends to stockholders and to pursue future business opportunities; • increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic, industry or competitive developments; • exposing us to increased interest expense, as our degree of leverage may cause the interest rates of any future indebtedness (whether fixed or floating rate interest) to be higher than they would be otherwise; • exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates because certain of our indebtedness is at variable rates of interest; • making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our indebtedness, and any failure to comply with the obligations of any of our debt instruments, including restrictive covenants, could result in an event of default that accelerates our obligation to repay indebtedness; 39 • restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, product development, satisfaction of existing debt service requirements, acquisitions and general corporate or other purposes; and • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or market conditions and placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who may be better positioned to take advantage of opportunities that our leverage prevents us from exploiting. In addition, certain of our variable rate indebtedness uses London Interbank Offer Rate ("LIBOR") as a benchmark for establishing the rate of interest and may be hedged with LIBOR-based interest rate derivatives. LIBOR has been the subject of recent national, international and other regulatory guidance and proposals for reform, and it is currently expected that LIBOR will be discontinued after June 2023. While all of our material financing arrangements indexed to LIBOR provide procedures for determining an alternative base rate in the event that LIBOR is discontinued, there can be no assurances as to whether such alternative base rate will be more or less favorable than LIBOR. We intend to monitor developments with respect to the phasing out of LIBOR and will work to minimize the impact of any LIBOR transition. The consequences of these developments cannot be entirely predicted, but could include an increase in the cost of our variable rate indebtedness. We are a holding company, and substantially all of our consolidated assets are owned by, and most of our business is conducted through, our subsidiaries. Revenues from these subsidiaries are our primary source of funds for debt payments and operating expenses. If our subsidiaries are restricted from making distributions to us, that may impair our ability to meet our debt service obligations or otherwise fund our operations. Moreover, there may be restrictions on payments by subsidiaries to their parent companies under applicable laws, including laws that require companies to maintain minimum amounts of capital and to make payments to stockholders only from profits. As a result, although a subsidiary of ours may have cash, we may not be able to obtain that cash to satisfy our obligation to service our outstanding debt or fund our operations. Certain of our debt agreements impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities. The indentures that govern our senior notes and the credit agreement that governs our senior secured credit facilities impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions limit our ability and/or the ability of our subsidiaries to, among other things: • incur or guarantee additional debt or issue disqualified stock or preferred stock; • pay dividends, including our subsidiaries paying dividends to us, and make other distributions on, or redeem or repurchase, capital stock; • make certain investments; • incur certain liens; • enter into transactions with affiliates; • merge or consolidate; • enter into agreements that restrict the ability of restricted subsidiaries to make dividends or other payments to us; • designate restricted subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries; and • transfer or sell assets. In addition, the credit agreement requires us to maintain a consolidated secured net leverage ratio not to exceed 5.0 to 1.0 as of the last day of any period of four consecutive quarters. As a result of these restrictions, we are limited as to how we conduct our business and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. The terms of any future indebtedness we may incur could include more restrictive covenants. We may not be able to maintain compliance with these 40 covenants in the future and, if we fail to do so, we may not be able to obtain waivers from the lenders and/or amend the covenants. Our failure to comply with the restrictive covenants described above, as well as other terms of our other indebtedness and/or the terms of any future indebtedness from time to time, could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in our being required to repay these borrowings before their due date. If we are forced to refinance these borrowings on less favorable terms or are unable to refinance these borrowings, our results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected. Servicing our indebtedness will require a significant amount of cash. Our ability to generate sufficient cash depends on many factors, some of which are not within our control. Our ability to make payments on our indebtedness, to fund planned capital expenditures and to pay dividends to our stockholders will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. To a certain extent, this is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow to service our debt and meet our other commitments, we may need to restructure or refinance all or a portion of our debt, sell material assets or operations or raise additional debt or equity capital. We may not be able to effect any of these actions on a timely basis, on commercially reasonable terms or at all, and these actions may not be sufficient to meet our capital requirements. In addition, the terms of our existing or future debt arrangements may restrict us from effecting any of these alternatives. Despite our current level of indebtedness, we may be able to incur substantially more debt and enter into other transactions, which could further exacerbate the risks to our financial condition described above. We may be able to incur significant additional indebtedness, including secured debt, in the future. Although the credit agreements and indentures that govern substantially all of our indebtedness contain restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness and entering into certain types of other transactions, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions. Additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. These restrictions also do not prevent us from incurring obligations, such as trade payables, that do not constitute indebtedness as defined under our debt instruments. To the extent new debt is added to our current debt levels, the substantial leverage risks described in the preceding three risk factors would increase. Risks Related to Ownership of Our Common Stock Because we suspended our quarterly cash dividend to holders of our common stock during 2020, you may not receive any return on your investment unless you sell your common stock for a price greater than that which you paid for it. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, we suspended payment of our quarterly cash dividend to holders of our common stock in 2020 and have not yet reinstated it. Our dividend policy may change at any time without notice to our stockholders. The declaration and payment of any future dividends is at the discretion of our board of directors in accordance with applicable law after taking into account various factors, including our financial condition, operating results, current and anticipated cash needs, limitations imposed by our indebtedness, legal requirements and other factors that our board of directors deems relevant. As a result, you may not receive any return on an investment in our common stock unless you sell your common stock for a price greater than that which you paid for it. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents and Delaware law might discourage or delay acquisition attempts for us that one might consider favorable. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws contain provisions that may make the merger or acquisition of our company more difficult without the approval of our board of directors. Among other things: • although we do not have a stockholder rights plan, and would either submit any such plan to stockholders for ratification or cause such plan to expire within a year, these provisions would allow us to authorize the issuance of undesignated preferred stock in connection with a stockholder rights plan or otherwise, the terms of which may be established and the shares of which may be issued without stockholder approval, and which may include super voting, special approval, dividend or other rights or preferences superior to the rights of the holders of common stock; 41 • these provisions prohibit stockholder action by written consent unless such action is recommended by all directors then in office; • these provisions provide that our board of directors is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal our by-laws and that our stockholders may only amend our by-laws with the approval of 80 percent or more of all the outstanding shares of our capital stock entitled to vote; and • these provisions establish advance notice requirements for nominations for elections to our board or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. Further, as a Delaware corporation, we are subject to provisions of Delaware law, which may impair a takeover attempt that our stockholders may find beneficial. These anti-takeover provisions and other provisions under Delaware law could discourage, delay or prevent a transaction involving a change in control of our company, including actions that our stockholders may deem advantageous, or negatively affect the trading price of our common stock. These provisions could also discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for our stockholders to elect directors of their choosing and to cause us to take other corporate actions they desire.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For the discussion of the financial condition and results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the year ended December 31, 2018, refer to "Part II—Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in our filed with the SEC on February 11, 2020, which is incorporated herein by reference. COVID-19 Pandemic During the year ended December 31, 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic significantly impacted the global economy and strained the hospitality industry due to travel restrictions and stay-at-home directives in place at various times during the period, resulting in cancellations and significantly reduced travel around the world. The reduction in travel resulted in the complete and partial suspensions of hotel operations in many of the areas where our hotels are located, which included approximately 20 percent of our global hotel properties for some portion of the reporting period. As such, it had a material adverse impact on our results for the year ended December 31, 2020 and, based on the potential impact of additional restrictions and continued health and safety concerns, we expect it to continue to have a material adverse impact on our results for an indeterminate duration, as described below under "—Results of Operations." Although the majority of our hotels that had temporarily suspended operations had reopened by the end of October 2020, travel restrictions re-imposed at the end of 2020 and the beginning of 2021 resulted in additional temporary suspensions and, in some cases, re-suspensions. As of February 10, 2021, 97 percent of our global hotel properties were open, while approximately 220 hotels had temporarily suspended operations. Hotels that have reopened generally have experienced significantly lower occupancy as compared with periods before the onset of the pandemic. In response to this global crisis, we have taken actions to prioritize the safety and security of our guests, employees and owners and support our communities. During the summer, we launched Hilton CleanStay to deliver a new standard of cleanliness and disinfection to our properties worldwide and Hilton EventReady, which focuses on cleanliness and customer service specific to meetings and events. We also found alternative uses for certain of our hotel properties, partnering with American Express to donate up to one million free room nights to frontline medical professionals. Through our Hilton Effect Foundation, we also provided financial assistance to organizations, including World Central Kitchen, directly responding to community needs that resulted from the COVID-19 pandemic. Additionally, we have taken several steps to help our business withstand this uncertain time, as detailed in "—Liquidity and Capital Resources." Overview Our Business Hilton is one of the largest hospitality companies in the world, with 6,478 properties comprising 1,019,287 rooms in 119 countries and territories as of December 31, 2020. Our premier brand portfolio includes: our luxury and lifestyle hotel brands, Waldorf Astoria Hotels & Resorts, LXR Hotels & Resorts, Conrad Hotels & Resorts, Canopy by Hilton, Tempo by Hilton and Motto by Hilton; our full service hotel brands, Signia by Hilton, Hilton Hotels & Resorts, Curio Collection by Hilton, DoubleTree by Hilton, Tapestry Collection by Hilton and Embassy Suites by Hilton; our focused service hotel brands, Hilton Garden Inn, Hampton by Hilton, Tru by Hilton, Homewood Suites by Hilton and Home2 Suites by Hilton; and our timeshare brand, Hilton Grand Vacations. As of December 31, 2020, we had more than 112 million members in our award-winning guest loyalty program, Hilton Honors. Segments and Regions We analyze our operations and business by both operating segments and geographic regions. Our operations consist of two reportable segments that are based on similar products or services: (i) management and franchise and (ii) ownership. The management and franchise segment provides services, including hotel management and licensing of our brands and IP. This segment generates its revenue from: (i) management and franchise fees charged to third-party hotel owners; (ii) licensing fees from HGV and strategic partnerships, including co-branded credit card arrangements, for the right to use certain Hilton marks and IP; and (iii) fees for managing our owned and leased hotels. As a manager of hotels, we typically are responsible for supervising or operating the property in exchange for management fees. As a franchisor of hotels, we charge franchise fees in 49 exchange for the use of one of our brand names and related commercial services, such as our reservation system, marketing and information technology services, while a third party manages or operates such franchised hotels. The ownership segment primarily derives earnings from providing nightly hotel room sales, food and beverage sales and other services at our owned and leased hotels. Geographically, we conduct business through three distinct geographic regions: (i) the Americas; (ii) Europe, Middle East and Africa ("EMEA"); and (iii) Asia Pacific. The Americas region includes North America, South America and Central America, including all Caribbean nations. Although the U.S. is included in the Americas, it represents a significant portion of our system-wide hotel rooms, 72 percent as of December 31, 2020; therefore, the U.S. is often analyzed separately and apart from the Americas region and, as such, it is presented separately within the analysis herein. The EMEA region includes Europe, which represents the western-most peninsula of Eurasia stretching from Iceland in the west to Russia in the east, and the Middle East and Africa ("MEA"), which represents the Middle East region and all African nations, including the Indian Ocean island nations. Europe and MEA are often analyzed separately and, as such, are presented separately within the analysis herein. The Asia Pacific region includes the eastern and southeastern nations of Asia, as well as India, Australia, New Zealand and the Pacific Island nations. System Growth and Development Pipeline Our strategic objectives include the continued expansion of our global footprint and fee-based business. As we enter into new management and franchise contracts, we expand our business with minimal or no capital investment by us as the manager or franchisor, since the capital required to build and maintain hotels is typically provided by the third-party owner of the hotel with whom we contract to provide management services or license our brand names and IP. Prior to approving the addition of new properties to our management and franchise development pipeline, we evaluate the economic viability of the property based on its geographic location, the credit quality of the third-party owner and other factors. By increasing the number of management and franchise contracts with third-party owners, over time we expect to increase revenues, overall return on invested capital and cash available to support our business needs. While these objectives have not changed as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, the current economic environment has posed certain challenges to the execution of our strategy, which have included and may continue to include delays in openings and new development. See further discussion on our cash management policy, as detailed in "—Liquidity and Capital Resources." During the year ended December 31, 2020, we opened over 410 hotels consisting of nearly 56,000 rooms, contributing to over 47,000 net additional rooms in our system, reflecting a net unit growth of 5.1 percent from December 31, 2019. As of December 31, 2020, we had nearly 2,570 hotels in our development pipeline that we expect to add to our system in the future, representing over 397,000 rooms under construction or approved for development throughout 116 countries and territories, including 31 countries and territories where we do not currently have any open hotels. Nearly all of the rooms in the development pipeline are within our management and franchise segment. Additionally, of the rooms in the development pipeline, 233,000 rooms were located outside the U.S., and 204,000 rooms were under construction. We do not consider any individual development project to be material to us. Brexit In June 2016, the U.K. held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the E.U. (commonly referred to as "Brexit"). The U.K.'s withdrawal from the E.U. occurred on January 31, 2020, beginning the implementation period, which ended on December 31, 2020. In December 2020, the U.K. and the E.U. reached a new bilateral trade and cooperation deal governing the future relationship between the U.K. and the E.U. (the "EU-UK Trade and Cooperation Agreement"), which has been approved by the member states of the E.U. and the U.K. parliament and is expected to be formally ratified by the E.U. parliament during the first quarter of 2021. While our results for the year ended December 31, 2020 were not materially affected by Brexit specifically, the final outcomes are not yet certain. In addition, while the EU-UK Trade and Cooperation Agreement provides clarity in respect of the intended future relationship between the U.K. and the E.U. and some detailed matters of trade and cooperation, it remains unclear what general long-term economic, financial, trade and legal implications the U.K. withdrawal from the E.U. will have and how it will ultimately affect our business. Brexit measures could potentially disrupt the markets we serve and cause tax and foreign currency exchange rate volatility, which could have adverse effects on our business. We will continue to monitor the potential impact of Brexit on our business in future periods. 50 Principal Components and Factors Affecting our Results of Operations Revenues Principal Components We primarily derive our revenues from the following sources: • Franchise and licensing fees . Represents fees earned in connection with the licensing of one of our brands. Under our franchise contracts, franchisees typically pay us franchise fees that include: (i) monthly royalty fees, generally based on a percentage of the hotel's monthly gross room revenue, and, in some cases, a percentage of gross food and beverage revenues and other revenues, as applicable; and (ii) application, initiation and other fees for when new hotels enter the system, when there is a change of ownership of a hotel or when contracts with properties already in our system are extended. We also earn licensing fees from license agreements with HGV and strategic partnerships, including co-branded credit card arrangements, for the use of certain Hilton marks and IP. Consideration to incentivize hotel owners to enter into franchise contracts with us is amortized over the life of the applicable contract as a reduction to franchise and licensing fees. • Base and incentive management fees. Represents fees earned in connection with the management of hotels. Terms of our management contracts vary, but our fees generally consist of a base fee, which is typically based on a percentage of the hotel's monthly gross revenue and, when applicable, an incentive fee, which is typically based on the hotel's operating profits and, in some cases, may be subject to a stated return threshold to the owner, normally over a one-calendar year period. Outside of the U.S., our fees are often dependent on hotel profitability measures, either because of a single management fee structure where the entire fee is an incentive fee, or because our two-tier fee structure is more heavily weighted toward the incentive fee than the base fee. Consideration to incentivize hotel owners to enter into management contracts with us is amortized over the life of the applicable contract as a reduction to base and other management fees. • Owned and leased hotels. Represents revenues derived from hotel operations, including hotel room sales, accommodations sold in conjunction with other services, food and beverage sales and other ancillary goods and services. These revenues are primarily derived from two categories of customers: transient and group. Transient guests are individual travelers who are traveling for business or leisure. Group guests are traveling for group events that reserve rooms for meetings, conferences or social functions sponsored by corporate, social, military, educational, religious or other organizations or associations. Group business usually includes a block of room accommodations, as well as other ancillary services, such as meeting facilities and catering and banquet services. A majority of our food and beverage sales and other ancillary goods and services are provided to customers who are also occupying rooms at our hotels. As a result, occupancy affects all components of our owned and leased hotel revenues. • Other revenues. Represents revenues generated by the incidental support of hotel operations for owned, leased, managed and franchised hotels, including our purchasing operations, and other operating income. • Other revenues from managed and franchised properties. Represents amounts that are contractually reimbursed to us by property owners, either directly as costs are incurred or indirectly through program fees billed and collected in advance that are associated with certain costs and expenses supporting the operations of the related properties. The direct reimbursements by property owners are for payroll and related costs if the property employees are legally our responsibility, and certain other operating costs of the managed and franchised properties' operations. We have no legal responsibility for the employees or the liabilities associated with operating franchised properties or certain of our managed properties. Revenues and expenses for these direct reimbursements have no net effect on operating income (loss) or net income (loss). The monthly program fee that hotel franchisees and property owners of hotels that we manage pay is based on the underlying hotel's sales or usage and relates to the costs of our brands and shared services, including: (i) advertising, marketing and customer loyalty programs; (ii) internet, technology and reservation systems; and (iii) quality assurance programs. We are contractually required to use these fees solely for these programs. 51 Factors Affecting our Revenues The following factors affect the revenues we derive from our operations: • Consumer demand and global economic conditions . Consumer demand for our products and services is closely linked to the performance of the general economy and is sensitive to business and personal discretionary spending levels. Among other factors, declines in consumer demand due to adverse general economic conditions, risks affecting or reducing travel patterns, lower consumer confidence and adverse political conditions can lower the amount of management and franchise fee revenues we are able to generate and/or lower the revenues and profitability of our owned and leased hotel operations. Further, competition for hotel guests and the supply of hotel services affect our ability to sustain or increase rates charged to customers at our hotels. In general, several of these factors, as well as health and safety concerns, had a significant effect on global economic conditions and consumer demand for our products and services in 2020, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, which is expected to continue to have an overall adverse impact on our revenues for an indeterminate duration. Also, declines in hotel profitability during an economic downturn directly affect the incentive portion of our management fees, which is based on hotel profitability measures. As a result, changes in consumer demand and general business cycles have historically subjected, are currently subjecting and could in the future subject our revenues to significant volatility. • Contracts with third-party owners and franchisees and relationships with developers . We depend on our long-term management and franchise contracts with third-party hotel owners and hotel franchisees for a significant portion of our management and franchise fee revenues. The success and sustainability of our management and franchise business depends on our ability to perform under our management and franchise contracts and maintain good relationships with third-party owners and franchisees. Our relationships with these third parties also generate new incremental opportunities for property development that can support our growth. Growth and maintenance of our hotel system and earning fees related to hotels in development are dependent on the ability of developers and owners to access capital for the development, maintenance and renovation of properties. We believe that we have good relationships with our third-party owners, franchisees and developers and are committed to the continued growth and development of these relationships. These relationships exist with a diverse group of owners, franchisees and developers and are not significantly concentrated with any one particular third party. Expenses Principal Components We primarily incur the following expenses: • Owned and leased hotels. Reflects the operating expenses of our consolidated owned and leased hotels, including room expense, food and beverage costs, other support costs and property expenses. Room expense includes compensation costs for housekeeping, laundry and front desk staff, as well as supply costs for guest room amenities and laundry. Food and beverage costs include costs for wait and kitchen staff and food and beverage inventory. Other support expenses include: costs associated with property-level management; utilities; sales and marketing; operating hotel spas; operating telephones, parking and other guest recreation; entertainment; and other services. Property expenses include property taxes, repairs and maintenance, rent and insurance. • Depreciation and amortization. These are non-cash expenses that primarily consist of: (i) amortization of intangible assets that were recorded at their fair value at the time of the October 24, 2007 transaction whereby we became a wholly owned subsidiary of affiliates of The Blackstone Group Inc. (the "Merger"), which primarily include management and franchise contracts, leases and our Hilton Honors guest loyalty program intangible; (ii) amortization of capitalized software costs; and (iii) depreciation of property and equipment, including our finance lease ROU assets, such as buildings and furniture and equipment that are used in corporate operations or at our consolidated owned and leased hotels. • General and administrative. Consists primarily of compensation costs for our corporate staff; professional fees, including consulting, audit and legal fees; travel and entertainment expenses; bad debt expenses for uncollected management, franchise and other fees; and administrative and related expenses. • Other expenses . Consists of expenses incurred by our purchasing operations and other ancillary businesses, along with other operating expenses of the business. 52 • Other expenses from managed and franchised properties. Represents certain costs and expenses that are contractually reimbursed to us by property owners for payroll and related costs for properties that we manage where the property employees are legally our responsibility, or paid from program fees collected from properties for certain other operating costs of the managed and franchised properties' operations, including those related to our brands and shared services programs. We are contractually required to use these fees solely for these programs. We have no legal responsibility for the employees or the liabilities associated with operating franchised properties or certain of our managed properties. Factors Affecting our Costs and Expenses The following are principal factors that affect the costs and expenses we incur in the course of our operations: • Fixed expenses. Many of the expenses associated with owning and leasing hotels are relatively fixed. These expenses include personnel costs, rent, property taxes, insurance and utilities. If we are unable to decrease these costs significantly or rapidly when demand for our hotels decreases, the resulting decline in our revenues can have an adverse effect on our net cash flows, margins and profits. This effect can be especially pronounced during periods of economic contraction or slow economic growth, including that which resulted from the COVID-19 pandemic. Economic downturns generally affect the results of our ownership segment more significantly than the results of our management and franchise segment due to the high fixed costs associated with operating an owned or leased hotel. Employees at some of our owned and leased hotels are parties to collective bargaining agreements that may also limit our ability to make timely staffing or labor changes in response to declining revenues. In addition, any efforts to reduce costs, including the deferral or cancellation of capital improvements, could adversely affect the economic value of our hotels and brands. Additionally, the general and administrative expenses of operating a global business also include fixed personnel costs, rent, property taxes, insurance and utilities. The effectiveness of any cost-cutting efforts related to owning and leasing hotels or corporate operations is limited by the amount of inherent fixed costs. However, we have taken steps to reduce our fixed costs to levels we believe are appropriate to maximize profitability and respond to expected future market conditions, while continuing to optimize our customers' experience and the value of our hotels and brands. • Changes in depreciation and amortization expense. We capitalize costs associated with certain software development projects and, as those projects are completed and placed into service, amortization expense will increase. As the finite-lived intangible assets that were recorded at the Merger become fully amortized, amortization expense will decrease. Additionally, changes in depreciation expense may be driven by renovations of existing hotels, acquisition or development of new hotels, the disposition of existing hotels through sale or closure, expenditures related to our corporate facilities or changes in estimates of the useful lives of our assets. As we place new assets into service, we will be required to recognize additional depreciation expense on those assets. If we are required to recognize impairment losses relating to our depreciable assets or finite-lived intangible assets, the related depreciation or amortization expense, respectively, will decrease. Other Items Effect of foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations Significant portions of our operations are conducted in functional currencies other than our reporting currency, which is USD, and we have assets and liabilities, including those that are payable or receivable by consolidated subsidiaries, denominated in a variety of foreign currencies. As a result, we are required to translate the results of those operations, assets and liabilities from the functional currency into USD at market-based foreign currency exchange rates for each reporting period. When comparing our results of operations between periods, there may be material portions of the changes in our revenues or expenses that are derived from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates experienced between those periods. We hedge foreign exchange-based cash flow variability in certain of our fees using forward contracts designated as hedging instruments. We also hold short-term forward contracts to offset exposure to fluctuations in certain of our foreign currency denominated cash balances, primarily related to our intercompany financing arrangements, and we elected not to designate these forward contracts as hedging instruments. Seasonality The hospitality industry is seasonal in nature. The periods during which our properties experience higher or lower levels of demand vary from property to property, depending principally upon their location, type of property and competitive mix within 53 the specific location. Based on historical results, we generally expect our revenues to be lower in the first quarter of each year than in each of the three subsequent quarters. However, the timing and effects of the COVID-19 pandemic resulted in the first quarter of 2020 being the strongest quarter in the year, as the remainder of the year was more significantly impacted by reduced occupancy due to travel restrictions, safety concerns and complete and partial suspensions of hotel operations. Key Business and Financial Metrics Used by Management Comparable Hotels We define our comparable hotels as those that: (i) were active and operating in our system for at least one full calendar year as of the end of the current period, and open January 1st of the previous year; (ii) have not undergone a change in brand or ownership type during the current or comparable periods reported; and (iii) have not sustained substantial property damage, business interruption, undergone large-scale capital projects or for which comparable results were not available. Of the 6,422 hotels in our system as of December 31, 2020, 4,956 hotels were classified as comparable hotels. Our 1,466 non-comparable hotels included 123 hotels, or approximately two percent of the total hotels in our system, that were removed from the comparable group during the last twelve months because they sustained substantial property damage, business interruption, underwent large-scale capital projects or comparable results were otherwise not available. When considering business interruption in the context of our definition of comparable hotels, any hotel that had completely or partially suspended operations on a temporary basis at any point during the year ended December 31, 2020 as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic was considered to be part of the definition of comparable hotels. Despite these temporary suspensions of hotel operations, we believe that including these hotels within our hotel operating statistics of occupancy, average daily rate ("ADR") and revenue per available room ("RevPAR") reflects the underlying results of our business for the year ended December 31, 2020. Occupancy Occupancy represents the total number of room nights sold divided by the total number of room nights available at a hotel or group of hotels for a given period. Occupancy measures the utilization of our hotels' available capacity. Management uses occupancy to gauge demand at a specific hotel or group of hotels in a given period. Occupancy levels also help us determine achievable ADR pricing levels as demand for hotel rooms increases or decreases. ADR ADR represents hotel room revenue divided by the total number of room nights sold for a given period. ADR measures average room price attained by a hotel, and ADR trends provide useful information concerning the pricing environment and the nature of the customer base of a hotel or group of hotels. ADR is a commonly used performance measure in the industry, and we use ADR to assess pricing levels that we are able to generate by type of customer, as changes in rates charged to customers have different effects on overall revenues and incremental profitability than changes in occupancy, as described above. RevPAR RevPAR is calculated by dividing hotel room revenue by the total number of room nights available to guests for a given period. We consider RevPAR to be a meaningful indicator of our performance as it provides a metric correlated to two primary and key drivers of operations at a hotel or group of hotels, as previously described: occupancy and ADR. RevPAR is also a useful indicator in measuring performance over comparable periods for comparable hotels. References to RevPAR, ADR and occupancy are presented on a comparable basis, and references to RevPAR and ADR are presented on a currency neutral basis, unless otherwise noted. As such, comparisons of these hotel operating statistics for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 use the exchange rates for the year ended December 31, 2020. EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA EBITDA reflects net income (loss), excluding interest expense, a provision for income tax benefit (expense) and depreciation and amortization. Adjusted EBITDA is calculated as EBITDA, as previously defined, further adjusted to exclude certain items, including gains, losses, revenues and expenses in connection with: (i) asset dispositions for both consolidated and unconsolidated equity 54 investments; (ii) foreign currency transactions; (iii) debt restructurings and retirements; (iv) furniture, fixtures and equipment ("FF&E") replacement reserves required under certain lease agreements; (v) share-based compensation; (vi) reorganization, severance, relocation and other related expenses; (vii) non-cash impairment; (viii) amortization of contract acquisition costs; (ix) the net effect of reimbursable costs included in other revenues and other expenses from managed and franchised properties; and (x) other items. We believe that EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA provide useful information to investors about us and our financial condition and results of operations for the following reasons: (i) these measures are among the measures used by our management team to evaluate our operating performance and make day-to-day operating decisions and (ii) these measures are frequently used by securities analysts, investors and other interested parties as a common performance measure to compare results or estimate valuations across companies in our industry. Additionally, these measures exclude certain items that can vary widely across different industries and among competitors within our industry. For instance, interest expense and income taxes are dependent on company specifics, including, among other things, capital structure and operating jurisdictions, respectively, and, therefore, could vary significantly across companies. Depreciation and amortization, as well as amortization of contract acquisition costs, are dependent upon company policies, including the method of acquiring and depreciating assets and the useful lives that are used. For Adjusted EBITDA, we also exclude items such as: (i) FF&E replacement reserves for leased hotels to be consistent with the treatment of FF&E for owned hotels, where it is capitalized and depreciated over the life of the FF&E; (ii) share-based compensation, as this could vary widely among companies due to the different plans in place and the usage of them; (iii) the net effect of our cost reimbursement revenues and reimbursed expenses, as we contractually do not operate the related programs to generate a profit over the terms of the respective contracts; and (iv) other items, such as amounts related to debt restructurings and retirements and reorganization and related severance costs, that are not core to our operations and are not reflective of our operating performance. EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA are not recognized terms under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") and should not be considered as alternatives to net income (loss) or other measures of financial performance or liquidity derived in accordance with GAAP. EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA have limitations as analytical tools and should not be considered as alternatives, either in isolation or as a substitute, for net income (loss), cash flow or other methods of analyzing our results as reported under GAAP. Some of these limitations are: • EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA do not reflect changes in, or cash requirements for, our working capital needs; • EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA do not reflect our interest expense, or the cash requirements necessary to service interest or principal payments, on our indebtedness; • EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA do not reflect income tax expenses or benefits or the cash requirements to pay our taxes; • EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA do not reflect historical cash expenditures or future requirements for capital expenditures or contractual commitments; • EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA do not reflect the effect on earnings or changes resulting from matters that we consider not to be indicative of our future operations; • although depreciation and amortization are non-cash charges, the assets being depreciated and amortized will often have to be replaced in the future, and EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA do not reflect any cash requirements for such replacements; and • other companies in our industry may calculate EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA differently, limiting their usefulness as comparative measures. Because of these limitations, EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA should not be considered as discretionary cash available to us to reinvest in the growth of our business or as measures of cash that will be available to us to meet our obligations. 55 Results of Operations The hotel operating statistics by region for our system-wide comparable hotels were as follows: During the year ended December 31, 2020, we experienced significant declines in RevPAR in all regions, due to both occupancy and ADR decreases resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic. Our Asia Pacific region experienced the effects of the pandemic early in 2020, with suspensions of hotel operations beginning in late January. Pronounced negative results and hotel suspensions in the Americas and EMEA regions began in mid-March. Of the approximately 1,280 properties that had suspended hotel operations at some point during the year ended December 31, 2020, approximately 44 percent were in the U.S., 10 percent were in the Americas (excluding U.S.), 25 percent were in Europe, 5 percent were in MEA and 16 percent were in Asia Pacific. As of February 10, 2021, the operations at approximately 220 hotels, primarily located in the U.S. and Europe, were temporarily suspended. Additionally, properties that have reopened have experienced significantly lower occupancy compared with periods prior to the onset of the pandemic as business and transient demand remains lower and travel restrictions and stay-at-home directives are still in place in many areas. On a global level, the pervasive impact of the COVID-19 pandemic began in late March, with its most significant adverse impact on occupancy and RevPAR in April. System-wide occupancy showed sequential month-over-month improvement from April through October and, in the fourth quarter, there was both occupancy and RevPAR improvement in the Americas (excluding U.S.), MEA and Asia Pacific regions. However, travel restrictions re-imposed in late 2020 resulted in additional temporary suspensions and, in some cases, re-suspensions of hotel operations, particularly in Europe, which led to further declines in occupancy and RevPAR in that region in the fourth quarter. 56 The table below provides a reconciliation of net income (loss) to EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA: ____________ (1) Includes severance not related to the 2020 reorganization and other items. The year ended December 31, 2020 also includes costs recognized for the settlement of a dispute with an owner of a managed hotel, losses related to the disposal of an investment and a loan guarantee for a franchised hotel and a gain related to the reimbursement by a third party for taxes owed resulting from the sale of a hotel in a prior period. The year ended December 31, 2019 also includes expenses recognized in connection with the refinancings and repayments of the senior secured credit facilities. Revenues The COVID-19 pandemic and the related reduction in global travel and tourism resulted in the complete or partial suspensions, and in some cases, re-suspensions, of hotel operations at approximately 1,245 of our managed and franchised properties at some point during the year ended December 31, 2020. Of these hotels, all but approximately 220 had reopened as of December 31, 2020. On a comparable basis, decreases in occupancy and ADR led to reduced RevPAR, resulting in decreases in franchise fees and management fees from our comparable managed and franchised properties. For the year ended December 31, 2020, RevPAR decreased 53.3 percent at our comparable franchised properties and 64.4 percent at our comparable managed properties, resulting from reduced occupancy of 32.1 percentage points and 40.7 percentage points, respectively, and reduced ADR of 18.1 percent and 21.4 percent, respectively. Including new development and ownership type transfers, from January 1, 2019 to December 31, 2020, we added 798 managed and franchised properties on a net basis, providing an additional 107,984 rooms to our management and franchise segment. While we have historically experienced increases to management and franchise fees as new hotels are a part of our system for full periods, the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our comparable hotels outweighed the impact of these property additions in 2020. Additionally, licensing and other fees decreased $98 million during the year ended December 31, 2020, primarily due to decreased licensing fees from both HGV due to reductions in timeshare revenues and our strategic partnerships, primarily driven by lower co-branded credit cardholder spend and our strategic partnerships as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. 57 Incentive fees decreased as they are based on hotels' operating profits, which have declined significantly from the prior year as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Owned and leased hotel revenues decreased primarily due to the COVID-19 pandemic and the related reduction in global travel and tourism. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, approximately 35 hotels in our ownership segment, the majority of which are located in Europe, had temporarily suspended operations at some point in time during the year ended December 31, 2020. Although all of these hotels had reopened at some point during the year, additional and reinstated restrictions in Europe during the fourth quarter of 2020, resulted in the re-suspension of operations at approximately 10 of these hotels. On a comparable basis, decreases in occupancy and ADR of 52.1 percentage points and 21.1 percent, respectively, led to reduced RevPAR of 74.8 percent, resulting in decreases in revenues from our comparable owned and leased hotels. Additionally, owned and leased hotel revenues decreased $55 million related to properties for which the lease agreements were terminated, with most of the properties transferring to our management and franchise segment. Other revenues decreased primarily due to decreased revenues from our purchasing operations related to delayed hotel improvement projects and lower volume purchasing based on reduced hotel demand as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Operating Expenses Owned and leased hotel expenses decreased primarily due to a decrease in occupancy resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic and approximately 35 hotels temporarily suspending operations at some point in time during the year ended December 31, 2020. Further, as a result of declining performance, variable rent, which is generally based on a percentage of hotel revenues or profits, decreased at most leased hotels that have a variable rent structure. However, certain fixed costs of maintaining the owned and leased hotels, such as fixed rent and certain minimum maintenance and utility costs, even while the hotels were temporarily closed or operating with very low occupancy, could not be reduced at the same rate as the hotel revenue decreases during the year. Additionally, owned and leased hotel expenses decreased $54 million related to properties for which the lease agreements were terminated, with most of the properties transferring to our management and franchise segment. ____________ (1) Fluctuation in terms of percentage change is not meaningful. 58 The decrease in depreciation and amortization expense was primarily due to a decrease in amortization expense resulting from certain management and franchise contract intangible assets recorded at the Merger fully amortizing during the year ended December 31, 2020, as well as from reduced carrying values of certain intangible assets and property and equipment related to our leased properties due to impairment losses that were recognized during 2020. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in amortization expense resulting from additions to capitalized software costs during 2020 and 2019. General and administrative expenses decreased primarily as a result of actions taken by the Company during the year ended December 31, 2020 to reduce or eliminate certain corporate costs in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, which included workforce reductions, temporary furloughs and salary reductions of corporate employees; refer to "—Liquidity and Capital Resources" for additional information. These actions are expected to also reduce costs in future periods. In addition, share-based compensation expense decreased primarily as a result of the reversal of expense recognized in prior periods during the year ended December 31, 2020 resulting from the determination that the performance conditions of our outstanding performance shares were no longer probable of achievement, partially offset by expense recorded in December 2020 as a result of the modification of these outstanding performance shares; see Note 15: "Share-Based Compensation" in our consolidated financial statements for additional information. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we recognized reorganization costs related to activities undertaken in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, primarily relating to reductions in our workforce and the associated costs. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we recognized $258 million of impairment losses, primarily related to our ownership segment, including $104 million on our ownership reporting unit's goodwill, along with certain assets associated with specific owned and leased hotels. Additionally, $15 million was related to management contract acquisition costs as a result of actual and expected early terminations of management contracts. Other expenses decreased primarily as a result of a decrease in expenses from our purchasing operations, resulting from reduced demand. Other expenses for the year ended December 31, 2020 also included costs recognized for the settlement of a dispute with an owner of a managed hotel and amounts accrued related to our performance guarantees. Gain on Sale of Assets, Net During the year ended December 31, 2019, we recognized a gain upon completion of the sale of the Hilton Odawara Resort & Spa ("Hilton Odawara"). See Note 3: "Disposal" in our consolidated financial statements for additional information. Non-operating Income and Expenses ____________ (1) Fluctuation in terms of percentage change is not meaningful. The increase in interest expense during the year ended December 31, 2020 was primarily due to the full draw down on our senior secured revolving credit facility (the "Revolving Credit Facility") in March 2020 and the issuances of senior notes in June 2019, April 2020 and December 2020. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in interest expense on our senior secured term loan facility (the "Term Loans") due to a 2019 principal repayment of $500 million and a decline in its variable interest rate, redemptions of senior notes in December 2020 and decreased variable interest expense for certain hotel finance 59 leases due to a decline in operating performance. See Note 9: "Debt" in our consolidated financial statements for additional information on our indebtedness. The gains and losses on foreign currency transactions included changes in foreign currency exchange rates on certain intercompany financing arrangements, including short-term cross-currency intercompany loans. The changes for both periods were the result of various currencies, but primarily the euro ("EUR") and the Australian dollar ("AUD"). Additionally, during the year ended December 31, 2020, we recognized losses related to the liquidation of investments in foreign entities that were reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive loss. Loss on debt extinguishments for the year ended December 31, 2020 related to the redemptions of senior notes and included redemption premiums totaling $31 million and the accelerated recognition of unamortized deferred financing costs of $17 million. See Note 9: "Debt" in our consolidated financial statements for additional information on these redemptions. Other non-operating loss, net for the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily included losses related to a loan guarantee for a franchised hotel and the disposal of an investment and a gain related to the reimbursement by a third party for taxes owed resulting from the sale of a hotel in a prior period. Other non-operating income, net for the year ended December 31, 2019 primarily included a loss on the disposal of an unconsolidated real estate investment and expenses recognized in connection with the refinancings and repayments of our senior secured credit facilities. The change in the income tax provision was primarily attributable to a decrease in income before income taxes. See Note 13: "Income Taxes" in our consolidated financial statements for additional information. Segment Results Refer to Note 18: "Business Segments" in our consolidated financial statements for reconciliations of revenues for our reportable segments to consolidated amounts and of segment operating income to consolidated income (loss) before income taxes. We evaluate our business segment operating performance using segment operating income (loss), without allocating other revenues and expenses or general and administrative expenses. Refer to "—Revenues" for further discussion of the decrease in revenues from our managed and franchised properties, which is correlated to our management and franchise segment revenues and segment operating income (loss). Refer to "—Revenues" and "—Operating Expenses" for further discussion of the changes in revenues and operating expenses at our owned and leased hotels, which are correlated with our ownership segment revenues and segment operating income (loss). Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview As of December 31, 2020, we had total cash and cash equivalents of $3,263 million, including $45 million of restricted cash and cash equivalents. The majority of our restricted cash and cash equivalents balance related to cash collateral on our self-insurance programs and cash held for FF&E reserves. Although we cannot presently estimate the ultimate and total financial impact of the unprecedented COVID-19 pandemic, which is highly dependent on the severity and duration of the pandemic, we expect it will continue to have a significant adverse impact on our results of operations in future periods. As such, due to these uncertainties and the indeterminate length of time the pandemic will affect the hospitality industry, we took certain proactive measures to secure our liquidity position to be able to meet our obligations for the foreseeable future, which included: (i) fully drawing down on our $1.75 billion Revolving Credit Facility; (ii) suspending dividend payments and share repurchases; (iii) implementing strict cost management measures, such as temporarily halting certain marketing programs, temporarily eliminating non-essential expenses, including capital expenditures, and reducing payroll and related costs through workforce reductions, furloughs and temporary salary reductions; (iv) consummating the April 2020 pre-sale of Hilton Honors points to American Express for $1.0 billion in cash (the "Honors Points Pre-Sale"); (v) issuing $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of senior notes in April 2020; and (vi) issuing $1.9 billion of aggregate principal amount of senior notes in December 2020 to extend debt maturities and reduce our cost of debt by repaying certain outstanding senior notes. Further, in February 2021, we issued $1.5 billion of aggregate principal amount of senior notes to continue to extend debt maturities and reduce our cost of debt by repaying additional outstanding senior notes. Based on our ability to manage our liquidity position during the COVID-19 pandemic, in January 2021, we repaid $250 million of the outstanding balance under our Revolving Credit Facility. See Note 22:" Subsequent Events" in our consolidated financial statements for additional information on these transactions. 60 Our known short-term liquidity requirements primarily consist of funds necessary to pay for operating and other expenditures, including costs associated with the management and franchising of hotels, corporate expenses, payroll and compensation costs, taxes and compliance costs, interest payments on our outstanding indebtedness, contract acquisition costs and capital expenditures for required renovations and maintenance at the hotels within our ownership segment. While our accounts receivable balance as of December 31, 2020 is less than periods prior to the start of the pandemic, we are generally experiencing slower payment of certain fees due to us. As such, we have considered the implications of these delayed payment trends in developing our estimates of expected future credit losses; see Note 2: "Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" in our consolidated financial statements for additional information. Our long-term liquidity requirements primarily consist of funds necessary to pay for scheduled debt maturities, capital improvements to the hotels within our ownership segment, commitments to owners in our management and franchise segment and corporate capital and information technology expenditures. We have currently suspended dividend payments and share repurchases, but expect that these activities will be reinstated and result in uses of liquidity in future periods. We have a long-term investment policy that is focused on the preservation of capital and maximizing the return on new and existing investments and returning available capital to stockholders through dividends and share repurchases. However, the COVID-19 pandemic has caused us to temporarily change our cash management strategy as described above. Within the framework of our investment policy, we currently intend to continue to finance our business activities primarily with cash on our balance sheet as of December 31, 2020 and cash generated from our operations. After considering our approach to liquidity and accessing our available sources of cash, we believe that our cash position will be adequate to meet anticipated requirements for operating and other expenditures, including corporate expenses, payroll and related benefits, taxes and compliance costs and other commitments for the foreseeable future based on current conditions. The objectives of our cash management policy are to maintain the availability of liquidity while minimizing operational costs. We may from time to time issue or incur or increase our capacity to incur new debt and/or purchase our outstanding debt through underwritten offerings, open market transactions, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. Issuances or incurrence of new debt (or an increase in our capacity to incur new debt) and/or purchases or retirement of outstanding debt, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors. The amounts involved may be material. We formally suspended share repurchases given the current economic environment and our efforts to preserve cash, and no share repurchases have been made since March 5, 2020. The stock repurchase program remains authorized by the board of directors, and we may resume share repurchases in the future at any time, depending on market conditions, our capital needs and other factors. Prior to the suspension, during the year ended December 31, 2020, we repurchased 2.6 million shares of our common stock under our repurchase program for $279 million, which we funded principally with available cash. As of December 31, 2020, approximately $2.2 billion remained available for share repurchases under the program. Sources and Uses of Our Cash and Cash Equivalents The following table summarizes our net cash flows: 61 Operating Activities The decrease in net cash provided by operating activities was primarily the result of decreases in cash inflows generated from our management and franchise properties and our owned and leased hotels, largely as a result of decreases in system-wide RevPAR due to the COVID-19 pandemic, as further discussed in "—Revenues." The decrease in net cash provided by operating activities was partially offset by $1.0 billion of cash received in connection with the Honors Points Pre-Sale and a decrease in cash paid for taxes of $284 million, primarily resulting from a decrease in income before income taxes, as well as net operating losses that were generated in 2020 in many tax jurisdictions that had taxable income in 2019. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities primarily related to capital expenditures for property and equipment and capitalized software costs; however, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we took steps to temporarily eliminate non-essential expenses, including capital expenditures, in 2020. Our capital expenditures for property and equipment primarily consisted of expenditures related to our corporate facilities and the renovation of hotels in our ownership segment, and our capitalized software costs related to various systems initiatives, for the benefit of both our hotel owners and our overall corporate operations. During the year ended December 31, 2019, we received cash proceeds of $120 million relating to the sale of the Hilton Odawara that partially offset capital expenditures for property and equipment, capitalized software costs and other uses of cash for investing activities. Financing Activities The increase in cash provided by financing activities was primarily attributable to a $1.3 billion increase in cash inflows and a $500 million decrease in cash outflows from net borrowings and repayments under our senior secured credit facilities and a $1.4 billion decrease in cash outflows for share repurchases and dividend payments. See Note 9: "Debt" in our consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our senior notes issuances and repayments, which, other than the related debt issuance costs and redemption premiums, had the same net impact on cash flows from financing activities during the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019. Debt and Borrowing Capacity As of December 31, 2020, our total indebtedness, excluding unamortized deferred financing costs and discount, was approximately $10.6 billion. For additional information on our total indebtedness, including fully drawing down our Revolving Credit Facility, our issuances of series of senior notes totaling $2.9 billion aggregate principal amount, our repayment of $1.9 billion aggregate principal amount of senior notes and guarantees on our debt, refer to Note 9: "Debt" in our consolidated financial statements. For information on our $250 million repayment on our Revolving Credit Facility in January 2021 and the issuance of $1.5 billion aggregate principal amount of senior notes in February 2021, refer to Note 22: "Subsequent Events" in our consolidated financial statements. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt, we may be required to reduce capital expenditures or issue additional equity securities. Our ability to make scheduled principal payments and to pay interest on our debt depends on our future operating performance, which is subject to general conditions in or affecting the hospitality industry that may be beyond our control. The COVID-19 pandemic negatively impacted our cash flows from operations during the period, and will continue to do so for an indeterminate period of time. Although our operating activities provided cash during the year ended December 31, 2020, it was primarily a result of the Honors Points Pre-Sale. We took precautions to secure our cash position, as discussed above, and expect to be able to meet our current obligations. Furthermore, we do not have any material indebtedness outstanding that matures prior to June 2024. 62 Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our significant contractual obligations as of December 31, 2020: ____________ (1) Includes principal, as well as estimated interest payments, and excludes finance lease liabilities. For our variable-rate debt, we have assumed a weighted average constant 30-day LIBOR rate of 0.15 percent as of December 31, 2020. (2) Includes imputed interest using a weighted average interest rate of 5.85 percent as of December 31, 2020. (3) Includes imputed interest using a weighted average interest rate of 3.82 percent as of December 31, 2020. The total amount of unrecognized tax benefits as of December 31, 2020 was $451 million. This amount is excluded from the table above because these unrecognized tax benefits are uncertain and subject to the findings of the taxing authorities in the jurisdictions where we are subject to taxation. It is possible that the amount of the liability for unrecognized tax benefits could change. Refer to Note 13: "Income Taxes" in our consolidated financial statements for additional information. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements Our off-balance sheet arrangements as of December 31, 2020 included letters of credit of $60 million. Additionally, we enter into purchase commitments in the normal course of business for which we are reimbursed by the owners of our managed and franchised hotels to operate our marketing, sales and brand programs. These obligations have minimal or no net effect on our future cash flows. See Note 19: "Commitments and Contingencies" in our consolidated financial statements for additional information. Summarized Guarantor Financial Information Hilton Domestic Operating Company Inc. ("HOC") is the issuer of the following senior notes, collectively referred to as the Senior Notes: • 5.375% Senior Notes due 2025; • 5.125% Senior Notes due 2026; • 4.875% Senior Notes due 2027; • 5.750% Senior Notes due 2028; • 3.750% Senior Notes due 2029; • 4.875% Senior Notes due 2030; and • 4.000% Senior Notes due 2031. HOC is 100 percent owned directly by Hilton Worldwide Parent LLC ("HWP"), which, in turn, is 100 percent owned directly by Hilton Worldwide Holdings Inc. (the "Parent"). The Senior Notes are guaranteed jointly and severally on a senior unsecured basis by the Parent, HWP and substantially all of the Parent's direct and indirect wholly owned domestic restricted subsidiaries, except for HOC, the issuer (together, the "Guarantors"). The indentures that govern the Senior Notes provide that any subsidiary of the Company that provides a guarantee of our senior secured credit facilities will guarantee the Senior Notes. As of December 31, 2020, none of our foreign subsidiaries or domestic subsidiaries owned by foreign subsidiaries or conducting foreign operations or our non-wholly owned subsidiaries guaranteed the Senior Notes. The guarantees are full and unconditional, subject to certain customary release provisions. The indentures that govern the Senior Notes provide that any Guarantor may be released from its guarantee so long as: (i) the subsidiary is sold or sells all of its assets; (ii) the subsidiary is released from its guarantee under our senior secured credit facilities; (iii) the subsidiary is declared "unrestricted" for covenant purposes; or (iv) the requirements for legal defeasance or covenant defeasance or to discharge the indenture have been satisfied, in each case in compliance with applicable provisions of the indentures. 63 Neither HOC nor any of the Guarantors has any reporting obligation under the Exchange Act in respect of the Senior Notes; however, we are supplementally providing the information set forth below. The following tables present summarized financial information for HOC, along with the Parent and all other Guarantors, on a combined basis: Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of our consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the consolidated financial statements, the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods and the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying footnotes. We believe that of our significant accounting policies, which are described in Note 2: "Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" in our consolidated financial statements, the following accounting policies are critical because they involve a higher degree of judgment, and the estimates required to be made were based on assumptions that are inherently uncertain. As a result, these accounting policies could materially affect our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and related disclosures. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate these estimates and judgments based on historical experiences and various other factors that we believe reflect the current circumstances. While we believe our estimates, assumptions and judgments are reasonable, they are based on information presently available. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates due to changes in judgments, assumptions and conditions as a result of unforeseen events or otherwise, which could have a material effect on our financial position or results of operations. Management has discussed the development and selection of the following critical accounting policies and estimates with the audit committee of the board of directors. 64 Impairment of Goodwill and Brands Intangible Assets We evaluate goodwill and brands intangible assets for potential impairment on an annual basis or at other times during the year if indicators of impairment exist. Our reporting units are the same as our operating segments as described in Note 18: "Business Segments" in our consolidated financial statements. As part of the evaluation of goodwill and brands intangible assets for potential impairment, we exercise judgment to: • perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit or brand intangible asset is less than its carrying value. Factors we consider when making this determination include assessing the overall effect of trends in the hospitality industry and the general economy, regional performance and expectations and historical experience; • decide whether to bypass the qualitative assessment and perform a quantitative assessment. Factors we consider when making this determination include the amount by which the fair value exceeded the carrying value at the previous quantitative assessment and the period of time that has passed since such quantitative assessment. Additionally, changes in the Company or general economic conditions are taken into consideration; and • perform a quantitative analysis to identify both the existence of impairment and the amount of the impairment loss. The estimated fair value is based on internal projections of expected future cash flows and operating plans, as well as market conditions relative to the operations of our reporting units and brands. As of December 31, 2020, we had $5,095 million of goodwill and $4,904 million of brands intangible assets. During the fourth quarter of 2020, we performed a quantitative analysis of goodwill and brands intangible assets for potential impairment and we fully impaired the goodwill attributable to our ownership reporting unit by recognizing impairment losses of $104 million during the year ended December 31, 2020. See Note 6: "Goodwill and Intangible Assets" and Note 11: Fair Value Measurements" in our consolidated financial statements for additional information. Changes in estimates and assumptions used in our impairment testing could result in future impairment losses, which could be material. Impairment of Certain Finite-Lived Assets If we determine there are indicators of impairment, we evaluate the carrying value of our specifically identifiable lease intangible assets, operating and finance lease ROU assets and property and equipment for potential impairment, as an asset group, by comparing the expected undiscounted future cash flows to the net carrying value of the assets. As part of the process, we exercise judgment to: • determine if there are indicators of impairment present. Factors we consider when making this determination include assessing the overall effect of trends in the hospitality industry and the general economy, regional performance and expectations, historical experience, capital costs and other asset-specific information; • determine the projected undiscounted future cash flows when indicators of impairment are present. Judgment is required when developing projections of future revenues and expenses based on estimated growth rates over the expected useful life of the asset group. Forward-looking growth rate estimates are based on historical operating results, as well as various internal projections and external sources; and • determine the asset group fair value when required. In determining the fair value, we often use internally-developed discounted cash flow models, as well as appraisals, recent similar transactions in the market and, if appropriate and available for a specific asset group, current estimated net sales proceeds from pending offers. Assumptions used in the discounted cash flow models include estimating cash flows, which may require us to adjust for specific market conditions, as well as capitalization rates, which are based on location, property or asset type, market-specific dynamics and overall economic performance. The discount rate applied to forward-looking projections takes into account our weighted average cost of capital according to our capital structure and other market specific considerations. As of December 31, 2020, we had $62 million, $772 million and $346 million of other lease intangible assets, net, operating lease ROU assets and property and equipment, net, respectively. During the year ended December 31, 2020, we recognized impairment losses of $46 million, $65 million and $28 million, respectively, on these assets. See Note 11: "Fair 65 Value Measurements" in our consolidated financial statements for additional information. Changes in estimates and assumptions used in our impairment testing could result in future impairment losses, which could be material. Leases We record lease liabilities as the present value of the future minimum lease payments using a discount rate that is either the rate implicit in the lease, if available, or our incremental borrowing rate, adjusted for collateral. The collateralized incremental borrowing rate is estimated on a portfolio basis and reflects factors such as the term of the lease and the currency in which the lease payments will be made. The determination of the estimate of lease liabilities utilizes various assumptions that require judgment, including our adjustment for collateral, economic factors, including currency data, and our credit risk. The ROU asset is measured at the amount of the lease liability, with applicable adjustments. As of December 31, 2020, we had $1.4 billion of lease liabilities. If circumstances arise, such as a modification of an existing lease, that require the reassessment of the collateralized incremental borrowing rate, changes in the estimates previously used for such a modified arrangement could result in material changes to our lease liabilities. Hilton Honors Hilton Honors records a point redemption liability for amounts received from participating hotels and strategic partners in an amount equal to the estimated cost per point of the future redemption obligation. We engage outside actuaries to assist in determining the fair value of the future award redemption obligation using statistical formulas that project future point redemptions based on factors that require judgment, including an estimate of "breakage" (points that will never be redeemed), an estimate of the points that will eventually be redeemed and the cost of the points to be redeemed. The cost of the points to be redeemed includes further estimates of available room nights, occupancy rates, room rates and any changes to the program, including devaluation or appreciation of points based on changes in the number of points required to redeem a reward. Any amounts received from participating hotels and strategic partners in excess of the actuarial determined cost per point are recorded as deferred revenue and recognized as revenue upon point redemption or licensing fees, as applicable. We recognize revenue for point redemptions in the amount we expect to retain in excess of the cost per point, inclusive of estimated breakage, and limit the revenue recognized to an amount that is probable to not result in a significant reversal in the cumulative revenue recognized when breakage occurs. In addition to the Hilton Honors fees we receive from hotel owners to operate the program, we earn fees from co-branded credit card arrangements for the use of our IP license and the issuance of Hilton Honors points. The allocation of the overall fees from the co-branded credit card arrangements between the IP license and the Hilton Honors points is based on their estimated standalone selling prices. The estimated standalone selling price of the IP license is determined using a relief-from-royalty valuation method using statistical formulas based on factors that require significant judgment, including estimates of credit card usage, an appropriate royalty rate and a discount rate to be applied to the projected cash flows. The estimated standalone selling price of the future reward redemptions of Hilton Honors points under the co-branded credit card arrangements is calculated using a discounted cash flow analysis with the same assumptions as the point redemption liability discussed above, adjusted for an appropriate margin. As of December 31, 2020, we had a $2.5 billion liability for guest loyalty program, including $703 million reflected as a current liability, and deferred revenues related to Hilton Honors, excluding strategic partnerships, of $249 million, including $70 million reflected as a current liability. Changes in the estimates used in developing our breakage rate or other expected future program operations could result in material changes to our liability for guest loyalty program and deferred revenues. As a result of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business, we reassessed the expected redemption rate of our Hilton Honors points. The re-evaluation as of March 31, 2020 resulted in reclassifications of the liability for guest loyalty program and deferred revenues from current to long term of $221 million and $50 million, respectively. We continued to use the revised methodology subsequent to March 31, 2020. Further, during 2020, we extended the temporary suspension of the expiration of Hilton Honors points through December 31, 2021. As a result, we adjusted our estimates of breakage to include, among other factors, the anticipated point expirations that will occur on December 31, 2021. Income Taxes We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities based on the differences between the financial statement carrying values and the tax basis of assets and liabilities using currently enacted tax rates. We regularly review our deferred tax assets to assess their potential realization and establish a valuation allowance for portions of such assets that we believe will not be ultimately 66 realized. In performing this review, we make estimates and assumptions regarding projected future taxable income, the expected timing of reversals of existing temporary differences and the implementation of tax planning strategies. A change in these assumptions may increase or decrease our valuation allowance resulting in an increase or decrease in our effective tax rate, which could materially affect our consolidated financial statements. We use a prescribed more-likely-than-not recognition threshold for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return if there is uncertainty in income taxes recognized in the consolidated financial statements. When determining the amount of tax benefit to be recognized, we assume, among other items, the position will be examined, the examiner will have all relevant information and the evaluation of the position will be based on its technical merits. Further, estimates based on a tax position’s technical merits and amounts we would ultimately accept in a negotiated settlement with the tax authorities are used to measure the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon settlement. Changes to these assumptions and estimates can lead to an additional income tax benefit (expense), which could materially affect our consolidated financial statements. Legal Contingencies We are subject to various legal proceedings and claims, the outcomes of which are subject to significant uncertainty. An estimated loss from a loss contingency will be accrued as a charge to income if it is probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Significant judgment is required when we evaluate, among other factors, the degree of probability of an unfavorable outcome and the ability to make a reasonable estimate of the amount of loss. Changes in these factors could materially affect our consolidated financial statements. Consolidation We use judgment when evaluating whether we have a controlling financial interest in an entity, including the assessment of the importance of rights and privileges of the partners based on voting rights, as well as financial interests in an entity that are not controllable through voting interests. If an entity in which we hold an interest is considered to be a VIE, we use judgment evaluating whether we are the primary beneficiary, and then consolidate those VIEs for which we have determined we are the primary beneficiary. If the entity in which we hold an interest does not meet the definition of a VIE, we evaluate whether we have a controlling financial interest through our voting interests in the entity. Changes to judgments used in evaluating our partnerships and other investments could materially affect our consolidated financial statements. 67