********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

In evaluating our business, the risks described below, as well as other information contained in this Annual Report and in our other filings with the SEC should be considered carefully. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also adversely affect our business. The occurrence of any of these events or circumstances could individually or in the aggregate have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flow or results of operations. This report contains forward-looking statements; please refer to the cautionary statements made under the heading “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” for more information on the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements. GLOBAL CHALLENGES, INCLUDING MACROECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND RELATED FINANCIAL RISKS The continuing worldwide macroeconomic and geopolitical uncertainty may adversely affect our business and prospects, both domestically and internationally. Continued concerns about the systemic impact of potential long-term and wide-spread recession and geopolitical issues, including wars and terrorism, have contributed to increased market volatility and diminished expectations for economic growth in the world. Our business and results of operations have been and may continue to be adversely impacted by changes in macroeconomic conditions, including inflation, bank failures, rising interest rates and availability of capital markets. Uncertainty about global economic conditions, particularly in emerging markets and countries with government-sponsored healthcare systems, may also cause decreased demand for our products and services and increased competition, which could result in lower sales volume and downward pressure on the prices for our products, longer sales cycles, and slower adoption of new technologies. A weakening of macroeconomic conditions may also adversely affect our suppliers, which could result in interruptions in supply. In addition, continuing social concerns and divisions in the U.S. and throughout the world, could have a material, adverse effect on the economic conditions in markets we serve, and our results of operations, cash flow and financial position. Market acceptance of our medical products in the U.S. and other countries is dependent upon the medical equipment purchasing and procurement practices of our customers, patient need for our products and procedures and the reimbursement of patients' medical expenses by government healthcare programs and third-party payors. The continuing uncertainty surrounding global economic conditions and financial markets may cause the purchasers of medical equipment to decrease their medical health insurance premiums and procurement activities. Economic uncertainty, an increase in unemployment rates, as well as an increase in health insurance premiums, co-payments and deductibles may result in cost-conscious consumers making fewer trips to their physicians and specialists, which in turn would adversely affect demand for our products and procedures. Furthermore, governments and other third-party payors around the world facing tightening budgets could move to further reduce the reimbursement rates or the scope of coverage offered, which could adversely affect sales of our products. Our international sales are often denominated in foreign currencies, including the Euro, UK Pound and Chinese Yuan. Changes in currency exchange rates, particularly the increase in the value of the dollar against any such foreign currencies, may reduce the reported value of our revenues outside the U.S. and associated cash flows and our ability to compete effectively in foreign markets. In addition, such fluctuations can also result in foreign currency exchange losses. We cannot predict changes in currency exchange rates, the impact of exchange rate changes, nor the degree to which we will be able to manage the impact of currency exchange rate changes. We currently have limited hedging arrangements in place to mitigate some of the impact of negative exchange rates. Our international operations and foreign acquisitions expose us to additional operational challenges that we might not otherwise face. International expansion is a key component of our growth strategy. In fiscal 2023, 26.0% of our revenue came from outside of the U.S. As we grow internationally, our future and existing international operations may subject us to a number of additional risks and expenses, any of which could harm our operating results. These risks and expenses include: • political and economic changes and disruptions, export/import controls and tariff regulations; • difficulties in developing staffing and simultaneously managing operations in multiple locations as a result of, among other things, distance, language and cultural differences; • governmental currency controls; 19 • multiple, conflicting and changing government laws and regulations (including, among other things, antitrust and tax requirements); • protectionist laws and business practices that favor local companies; • difficulties in the collection of trade accounts receivable; • difficulties and expenses related to implementing internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures; • expenses associated with customizing products for clients in foreign countries; • possible adverse tax consequences; • the inability to obtain and maintain required regulatory approvals or favorable third-party reimbursement; • operation in parts of the world where strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices; • the inability to effectively obtain, maintain, protect or enforce intellectual property rights, reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries, and the inability to otherwise protect against clone or “knock off” products; • the lack of ability to enforce non-compete agreements with former owners of acquired businesses competing with us in China and other foreign countries; and • lower margins on a number of our products sold outside of the U.S. In addition, government policies on international trade and investment such as import quotas, capital controls or tariffs, whether adopted by individual governments or addressed by regional trade blocks, can affect the demand for our products and services, impact the competitive position of our products or prevent us from being able to sell products in certain countries. The implementation of more restrictive trade policies, such as more detailed inspections, higher tariffs or new barriers to entry, could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, a government's adoption of “buy national” policies or retaliation by another government against such policies could have a negative impact on our results of operations. Additionally, the regulatory environment in China continues to evolve, and officials in the Chinese government exercise broad discretion in deciding how to interpret and apply regulations. It is possible that the Chinese government’s current or future interpretation and application of existing or new regulations will negatively impact our China operations, result in regulatory investigations or lead to fines or penalties. BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT AND COMPETITION Our long-term success will depend upon our ability to execute on business development activities and integrate acquired businesses. As part of our long-term strategy, we are engaged in business development activities including evaluating future acquisitions, joint development opportunities, technology licensing arrangements and other opportunities to further expand our presence in or diversify into priority growth areas by accessing new products and technologies. We may not be able to identify appropriate business development activities or acquisition candidates, consummate transactions or obtain agreements with favorable terms, if at all. We may also be subject to increasing regulatory scrutiny from competition and antitrust authorities in connection with acquisitions. If we are successful in pursuing future acquisitions, we may face significant competition, be required to expend significant funds, incur additional debt or other obligations, or issue additional securities, which may negatively affect our operating results and financial condition. If we spend significant funds or incur additional debt or obligations, our ability to obtain financing for working capital or other purposes could be adversely affected, and we may be more vulnerable to economic downturns and competitive pressures. During fiscal 2021, we made a number of tactical acquisitions which complemented our existing businesses. We continue to integrate those acquisitions. Any inability to successfully integrate new businesses, including our more recent acquisitions, decreases in customer loyalty or product orders, failure to retain or develop the acquired workforce, failure to realize anticipated economic, operational and other benefits and synergies in a timely manner, failure to establish and maintain appropriate controls or unknown or contingent liabilities could adversely affect our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of any new product or acquisition. For example, in the third quarter of fiscal 2023, we reassessed our short-term and long-term commercial plans for the Mobidiag business, which we acquired in fiscal 2021, and recorded aggregate impairment charges of $197.4 million. The integration of an acquired business, whether or not successful, requires significant efforts which may result in additional expenses and divert the attention of our management and technical personnel from other projects. Acquisitions, in particular, are inherently risky, and we cannot guarantee that any past or future transaction will be successful. 20 We face intense competition from other companies and may not be able to compete successfully. The markets in which we sell our products are intensely competitive, subject to rapid technological change and may be significantly affected by new product introductions and other market activities of industry participants, and these competitive pressures may reduce the demand and prices for our products. Other companies may develop products that are superior to and/or less expensive than our products. Improvements in existing competitive products or the introduction of new competitive products may reduce our ability to compete for sales, particularly if those competitive products demonstrate better safety or effectiveness, clinical results, ease of use or lower costs. Organizational changes we have made or may make to streamline and improve customer experience may not have the intended effect and may instead harm our competitive position and reputation. In addition, some companies may have significant competitive advantages over us, which may make them more attractive to hospitals, clinics, radiology clients, group purchasing organizations, laboratories, and physicians, including: • greater brand recognition; • larger or more established distribution networks and customer bases; • a broader product portfolio, resulting in the ability to offer rebates or bundle products to offer discounts or incentives to gain a competitive advantage; • higher levels of automation and greater installed bases of such equipment; • more extensive research, development, sales, marketing, and manufacturing capabilities and greater financial resources; and • greater technical resources positioning them to continue to improve their technology in order to compete in an evolving industry. We also developed assays to detect COVID-19. Considerable uncertainty remains as to the demand for ongoing COVID-19 testing, and thus, for our COVID-19 assays. In addition, other companies have produced tests for COVID-19 (including so-called high throughput nucleic acid tests, rapid antigen tests and at-home testing solutions) which may lead to the diversion of customers away from us and toward other companies. As COVID-19 testing declines, customers may also consolidate their molecular testing menu to high throughput, high automation platforms which may further increase the competition our Panther and Panther Fusion instruments face. Continued decline in demand for our COVID-19 assays or a reduction in the reimbursement rates for our COVID-19 assays without a corresponding increase in our other businesses could have a material, adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow and financial position. Challenges in the development of our products could materially impact our long-term success. Our growth depends in large part on our ability to identify and develop new products or new indications for or enhancements of existing products. The development of new products and enhancement of existing products requires significant investment in research and development, clinical trials and regulatory approvals. The results of our product development efforts may be affected by a number of factors, including our ability to anticipate customer needs, innovate and develop new products, complete clinical trials, obtain regulatory clearances and approvals and reimbursement in the U.S. and abroad, manufacture products in a cost-effective manner, obtain, maintain, protect and enforce appropriate intellectual property protection for our products, gain and maintain market approval of our products and access capital. If we are not able to successfully enhance existing products or develop new products, our products may be rendered obsolete or uncompetitive by changing technology or new industry standards. We cannot assure that any products now in development or that we may seek to develop in the future will achieve technological feasibility, obtain regulatory approval or gain market acceptance, and we may be unable to recover all or a meaningful part of our investment in such products and technologies. The markets for our newly developed products and newly introduced enhancements to our existing products may not develop as expected. The successful commercialization of our newly developed products and newly introduced enhancements to our existing products are subject to numerous risks, both known and unknown, including: • uncertainty of the development of a market for such product; • trends relating to, or the introduction or existence of, competing products or technologies that may be more effective, safer or easier to use than our products or technologies; • the perception of our products as compared to other products; • recommendation and support for the use of our products by influential customers, such as highly regarded hospitals, physicians and treatment centers; • the availability and extent of data demonstrating the clinical efficacy of our products or treatments; 21 • competition, including the presence of competing products sold by companies with longer operating histories, more recognizable names and more established distribution networks; and • other technological developments. Often, the development of a significant market for a product will depend upon the establishment of a reimbursement code or an advantageous reimbursement level for use of the product. Moreover, even if addressed, such reimbursement codes or levels frequently are not established until after a product is developed and commercially introduced, which can delay the successful commercialization of a product. If we are unable to successfully commercialize and create a significant market for our newly developed products and newly introduced enhancements to our existing products our business and prospects could be harmed. If we cannot maintain our current corporate collaborations and enter into new corporate collaborations, our product development could be delayed and our revenue could be adversely impacted. We have relied and/or expect to rely on corporate collaborators for funding development, marketing, distribution, and the commercialization of certain products. If any of our corporate collaborators were to breach, terminate, fail to renew our agreements or otherwise fail to properly conduct its obligations in a timely manner, the development or commercialization and subsequent marketing of the products contemplated by the collaboration could be delayed or terminated. Further, we would be required to devote additional resources to product development or marketing, to terminate some development programs or to seek alternative corporate collaborations with certain partners or companies that could make it more difficult for us to enter into advantageous business transactions or relationships with others. Any of the foregoing risks could harm our business and prospects. CYBERSECURITY AND DATA PRIVACY Increased cybersecurity requirements, vulnerabilities, threats and more sophisticated and targeted computer crime could pose a risk to our systems, networks, products, solutions, services and data. Increased global cybersecurity vulnerabilities, threats, computer viruses, ransomware and phishing attacks and more sophisticated and targeted cyber-related attacks, as well as cybersecurity failures resulting from human error and technological errors, pose a risk to the security of Hologic and its customers, business partners' and suppliers' products, systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of data on these products, systems and networks. As the perpetrators of such attacks become more capable, as cybercrime becomes commoditized, and as critical infrastructure is increasingly becoming digitized, the risks in this area continue to grow. While we attempt to mitigate these risks by employing certain physical, administrative, and technical measures, including, but not limited to, employee training, logical access controls, monitoring and testing, and maintenance of protective systems and contingency plans, we remain potentially vulnerable to additional known or unknown threats, and we cannot assure that the impact from such threats will not be material. In addition to existing risks, flexible work arrangements, the adoption of new technologies and acquisitions of new businesses may also increase our exposure to cybersecurity breaches and failures. We regularly assess external and internal cybersecurity-related risks and identify potential improvements to our cybersecurity program (including its staffing, processes, and technology). When potential improvements are identified, we weigh the costs and benefits of such improvements (including against other potential improvements) and, if selected, the improvements are added to a roadmap for possible implementation. Additionally, we have incurred and expect to continue to incur significant costs implementing additional security measures to protect against existing and emerging cybersecurity threats. We also have access to sensitive, confidential or personal data or information that is subject to privacy and security laws, regulations or customer-imposed controls. Despite our implementation of certain controls to protect our systems and sensitive, confidential or personal data or information, we may be vulnerable to material security breaches, theft, misplaced, lost or corrupted data, employee errors and/or malfeasance (including misappropriation by departing employees) that could potentially lead to the compromising of sensitive, confidential or personal data or information, improper use of our systems, software solutions or networks, unauthorized access, use, disclosure, modification or destruction of information, defective products, production downtimes and operational disruptions. In addition, a cyber-related attack could result in other negative consequences, including damage to our reputation or competitiveness, remediation or increased protection costs, litigation or regulatory action. While we carry cyber liability insurance, such insurance may not cover us with respect to any or all claims or costs associated with such a breach. Although we have experienced occasional cybersecurity incidents and/or attempted breaches of our computer systems, to date we do not believe any of these breaches have had a material effect on our business, operations or reputation. 22 Failure to comply with laws relating to the confidentiality of sensitive personal information or standards related to the transmission of electronic health data, may require us to make significant changes to our products, or incur penalties or other liabilities. State, federal and foreign laws, such as the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, regulate the confidentiality of sensitive personal information and the circumstances under which such information may be released. These measures may govern the disclosure and use of personal and patient medical record information and may require users of such information to implement specified security measures, and to notify individuals in the event of privacy and security breaches. Evolving laws and regulations in this area could restrict the ability of our customers to obtain, use or disseminate patient information, or could require us to incur significant additional costs to re-design our products in a timely manner, either of which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Other health information standards, such as regulations under HIPAA, establish standards regarding electronic health data transmissions and transaction code set rules for specified electronic transactions, for example transactions involving submission of claims to third-party payors. These standards also continue to evolve and are often unclear and difficult to apply. We have incurred and expect that we will continue to incur significant costs implementing additional security measures to protect against new or enhanced data security or privacy threats, or to comply with current and new federal, state and international laws governing the unauthorized disclosure or exfiltration of confidential and personal information which are continuously being enacted and proposed. Outside the U.S., we are impacted by privacy and data security requirements at the international, national and regional level, and on an industry specific basis. More privacy and security laws and regulations are being adopted, and more are being enforced, with potential for significant financial penalties. In the EU, increasingly stringent data protection and privacy rules have been enacted. The EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) applies uniformly across the EU and includes, among other things, a requirement for prompt notice of data breaches to data subjects and supervisory authorities in certain circumstances. The GDPR also requires companies processing personal data of individuals residing in the EU to comply with EU privacy and data protection rules. Failure to maintain the confidentiality of sensitive personal information in accordance with the applicable regulatory requirements, or to abide by electronic health data transmission standards, could expose us to breach of contract claims, fines and penalties, costs for remediation and harm to our reputation. THIRD-PARTY REIMBURSEMENT AND GUIDELINES Healthcare cost containment legislation and the failure of third-party payors to provide appropriate levels of coverage and reimbursement for the use of products and treatments facilitated by our products could harm our business and prospects. Sales and market acceptance of our diagnostics, breast and skeletal health and surgical products and the treatments facilitated by these products are dependent upon the coverage decisions and reimbursement policies established by government healthcare programs and private health insurers. These policies affect which products customers purchase and the prices they are willing to pay. Reimbursement varies by country and can significantly impact the acceptance of new products and technologies. Even if we develop a promising new product, we may find limited demand for the product unless appropriate reimbursement approval is obtained from private and governmental third-party payors. Further legislative or administrative reforms to the reimbursement systems in the U.S. and other countries in a manner that significantly reduces reimbursement for procedures using our diagnostics, breast and skeletal health and surgical products or denies coverage for those procedures facilitated by our products, including price regulation, competitive bidding and tendering, coverage and payment policies, comparative effectiveness of therapies, technology assessments and managed-care arrangements, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Guidelines, recommendations and studies published by various organizations may reduce the use of our products. Professional societies, government agencies, practice management groups, private health/science foundations, and organizations involved in healthcare issues may publish guidelines, recommendations or studies to the healthcare and patient communities. Organizations like these have in the past made recommendations about our products and those of our competitors. If followed by healthcare providers and insurers, such publications could result in decreased use of our products. For example, in November 2012, the American Congress of Obstetrics and Gynecologists, known as the ACOG, released updates in which it recommended less frequent cervical cancer screening similar to guidelines released in March 2012 by the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force, or the USPSTF, and the American Cancer Society. We believe that these recommendations and guidelines may have contributed to increased screening intervals for cervical cancer, which we believe has and may continue to adversely affect our ThinPrep revenues. Our cervical cancer screening revenues, primarily from ThinPrep sales, may also be adversely affected by the July 2020 American Cancer Society cervical cancer screening guidelines, which recommended the use of a human papillomavirus (HPV) test for primary screening rather than co-testing (the use of an HPV test with a Pap test) or a standalone Pap test. In addition, on October 20, 2015, the American Cancer Society issued guidelines recommending that women start annual mammograms at age 45 instead of 40 and have a mammogram every two years instead of annually. We believe that this recommendation may have resulted in a decrease in the use of mammography systems. 23 BUSINESS CONTINUITY AND RELIANCE ON THIRD PARTIES Supply Chain and Manufacturing Supply chain constraints and inflationary pressures have had, and may continue to have, a material adverse effect on our ability to procure raw materials and components, including semiconductor chips, and to meet customer demand for, and increase our costs to manufacture, warehouse, and transport, certain of our products. Global supply constraints have and may continue to adversely affect our ability to meet customer demand, and increase our costs to manufacture, transport and warehouse a certain subset of our products. In addition, global supply constraints have resulted in increases to the costs of production of certain of our products that we may not be able to pass on to our customers. We expect these factors will continue to impact us in the future and obtaining alternative sources of raw materials and components could involve significant costs and regulatory challenges and may not be available to us on reasonable terms, if at all. In particular, our ability to manufacture our Breast Health capital equipment products, primarily, but not limited to, our 3D Dimensions systems, Trident specimen radiography systems, Affirm Prone Biopsy systems and Brevera systems, is dependent on the supply of such raw materials and components, including semiconductor chips. If we are unable to obtain sufficient quantities of raw materials and components on commercially reasonable terms or in a timely manner, our ability to manufacture our capital equipment products, in particular, our Breast Health products, on a timely and cost-competitive basis could materially adversely affect our revenues and results of operations and harm our competitive position and reputation. Our reliance on one third-party manufacturer for certain of our product lines and a limited number of suppliers for some key raw materials, components and subassemblies for our products exposes us to increased risks associated with production delays, delivery schedules, manufacturing capability, quality control, quality assurance and costs. We have sole source third-party manufacturers for each of our Panther and Tigris molecular diagnostics instruments and for our Skeletal Health products. Similarly, we rely on one or a limited number of suppliers for some key components or subassemblies for our products due to cost, quality, expertise or other considerations. We have no firm long-term volume commitments with certain of our sole source suppliers, including the manufacturers of our Panther or Tigris instruments. Similarly, we rely on one or a limited number of suppliers for some key raw materials for our products due to cost, quality, expertise or other considerations, and some of these suppliers are competitors. For example, F. Hoffmann-LaRoche Ltd, a direct competitor of our Diagnostics business, is the parent company of Roche, our current supplier of certain key raw materials for certain of our amplified NAT diagnostic assays. GE Healthcare Bio-Sciences Corp., an affiliate of GE, supplies us with the membranes used in connection with our ThinPrep product line. GE is a direct competitor with our Breast Health and Skeletal Health businesses. Moreover, we use certain components in our products, including semiconductor chips, that have been the subject of global supply chain shortages and disruptions. If any of our sole source manufacturers or suppliers, or other third-party manufacturers or suppliers, experiences delays, disruptions, capacity constraints or quality control problems in its development or manufacturing operations or becomes insolvent or otherwise fails to supply us with goods in sufficient quantities, including as a result of disruptions caused by epidemics or pandemics, natural disasters, supplier facility shutdowns, or otherwise, then shipments to our customers could be delayed, which would decrease our revenues and harm our competitive position and reputation. Moreover, the failure of a supplier to provide sufficient quantities, acceptable quality and timely delivery of goods at an acceptable price, or an interruption in the delivery of goods from such a supplier could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Obtaining alternative sources of supply of products, components, subassemblies or raw materials could involve significant delays and other costs and regulatory challenges and may not be available to us on reasonable terms, if at all. We may in the future need to find new contract manufacturers or suppliers to replace existing manufacturers or suppliers, increase our volumes or reduce our costs. We may not be able to find contract manufacturers or suppliers that meet our needs, including regulatory requirements, and even if we do, the process of qualifying such alternative manufacturers and suppliers is often expensive and time consuming. As a result, we may lose revenues and our customer relationships may suffer. Business Continuity Interruptions, delays, shutdowns or damage at our manufacturing or laboratory facilities, or the facilities of third parties on which we depend, could harm our business. In most cases, the manufacturing and warehousing of each of our products is concentrated in one or a few locations. In addition, we rely on a single laboratory facility to process each of our Biotheranostics gene expression tests for breast cancer. An interruption in manufacturing, testing capabilities or warehousing at any of these facilities, as a result of equipment failure, transportation interruptions, disruptions caused by strikes or other labor unrest, epidemics or pandemics, natural disaster, 24 environmental factors or property damage could reduce, delay or prevent the production and distribution of our products. Our facilities and those of our contract manufacturers, suppliers, customers or third parties on which we depend are also subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events, such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods or weather conditions, or other events outside of our control. Our facilities may experience plant shutdowns, strikes or other labor disruptions, or periods of reduced production as a result of equipment failures, loss of power, gray outs, delays in deliveries or extensive damage, which could harm our business and prospects. Some of our manufacturing operations are located outside the U.S., including in Costa Rica and the United Kingdom. Those manufacturing operations are also subject to additional challenges and risks associated with international operations described herein. CUSTOMER CONCENTRATION AND DISTRIBUTORS Our Diagnostics segment depends on a small number of customers for a significant portion of its product sales, and the loss of any of these customers or any cancellation or delay of a large purchase by any of these customers could significantly reduce revenues in our Diagnostics segment. Although we do not currently have any customers that represent more than 10% of our consolidated revenues, or more than 10% of a business segment's revenue in fiscal 2023, 2022, and 2021, historically a material portion of product sales in our Diagnostics segment came from (and we anticipate will continue to come from) a limited number of customers. The loss of any of these key customers, or a significant reduction in sales volume or pricing to these customers, could significantly reduce our Diagnostics segment revenues or profitability. We utilize distributors for a portion of our sales, the loss of which could harm our revenues in the territory serviced by these distributors. We rely on strategic relationships with a number of key distributors for sales and service of our products. If any of our strategic relationships terminate without replacement or if our strategic partners fail to perform their contractual obligations, our revenues and/or ability to service our products in the territories serviced by these distributors could be adversely affected. We do not control our distributors, and these parties may not be successful in marketing our products. These parties may fail to commit the necessary resources to market and sell our products to the level of our expectations. If we elect to distribute new products directly, we will have to invest in additional sales and marketing resources, including additional field sales personnel, which would significantly increase future selling, general and administrative expenses. If we fail to successfully market our products, our product sales will decrease. We may also be exposed to risks as a result of transitioning a territory from a distributor sales model to a direct sales model, such as difficulties maintaining relationships with specific customers, hiring appropriately trained personnel or ensuring compliance with local product registration requirements, any of which could result in lower revenues than previously received from the distributor in that territory. TALENT AND EMPLOYEE RETENTION Our success depends on our ability to attract, motivate and retain key personnel and plan for future executive transitions. The loss of any of our key personnel, particularly executive management or key research and development personnel, could harm our business and prospects and could impede the achievement of our research and development, operational or strategic objectives. We also continue to face the challenges of maintaining employee well-being, recognizing that the continued additional financial, family and health burdens that many employees may be experiencing due to macroeconomic uncertainties, including inflation, and other factors, may adversely impact job performance and employee retention. Additionally, in our industry, there is substantial competition for key personnel in the regions in which we operate. We face intense competition for employees, particularly as employees are increasingly able to work remotely. Also, facilitating seamless leadership transitions for key positions is a critical factor in sustaining the success of our organization. If our succession planning efforts are not effective, it could adversely impact our business. We continue to assess the key personnel that we believe are essential to our long-term success. Future organizational changes could also cause our employee attrition rate to increase. If we fail to effectively manage any organizational and/or strategic changes, our financial condition, results of operations, and reputation, as well as our ability to successfully attract, motivate and retain key employees, could be harmed. REGULATORY AND LEGAL We operate in a highly regulated industry, and changes in healthcare laws and regulations or our inability to obtain in a timely manner or at all U.S. or foreign regulatory clearances or approvals for our current and newly developed products and services or product or service enhancements, could adversely affect our business and prospects. 25 We operate in a highly regulated industry. As a result, governmental actions may adversely affect our business, operations or financial condition, including : • new laws, regulations or judicial decisions, or new interpretations of existing laws, regulations or decisions, related to healthcare availability, method of delivery and payment for healthcare products and services; • changes in the FDA and foreign regulatory approval processes that may delay or prevent the approval of new products and result in lost market opportunity; • changes in FDA and foreign regulations that may require additional safety monitoring, labeling changes, restrictions on product distribution or use, or other measures after the introduction of our products to market, which could increase our costs of doing business, adversely affect the future permitted uses of approved products, or otherwise adversely affect the market for our products; and • new laws, regulations and judicial decisions affecting pricing or marketing practices. Given the high level of regulatory oversight to which our products are subject, the process of obtaining clearances and approvals can be costly and time consuming. In addition, there is a risk that any approvals or clearances, once obtained, may be withdrawn. Most medical devices cannot be marketed in the U.S. without 510(k) clearance or pre-market approval by the FDA. Any modifications to a device that has received a pre-market approval that affect the safety or effectiveness of the device require a pre-market approval supplement or possibly a separate pre-market approval, either of which is likely to be time consuming, expensive and uncertain to obtain. If the FDA requires us to seek one or more pre-market approval supplements or new pre-market approvals for any modification to a previously approved device, we may be required to cease marketing or to recall the modified device until we obtain approval, and we may be subject to significant criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, but not limited to, regulatory fines or penalties. States may also regulate the manufacture, sale and use of medical devices, particularly those that employ x-ray technology. Our products are also subject to approval and regulation by foreign regulatory and safety agencies. For example, the EU has adopted the EU Medical Device Regulation (the “EU MDR”) and the In Vitro Diagnostic Regulation (the “EU IVDR”), each of which impose stricter requirements for the marketing and sale of medical devices, including in the area of clinical evaluation requirements, quality systems and post-market surveillance. Implementation of the compliance requirements of these regulations requires us to incur significant expenditures and utilize resources. Failure to continue to meet these requirements could adversely impact our business in the EU and other regions that tie their product registrations to the EU requirements. We anticipate that governmental authorities will continue to scrutinize the healthcare industry closely and that changes in laws, regulations or policies by governmental authorities may cause increased uncertainties and compliance costs, exposure to litigation and other adverse effects to our business and operations. Delays in receipt of, or failure to obtain or maintain, clearances or approvals for future products could delay or preclude realization of product revenues from new or existing products or result in substantial additional costs which could decrease our profitability. In addition, maintaining compliance with multiple regulators, and multiple centers within the FDA, adds complexity and cost to our manufacturing processes. Our manufacturing facilities and those of our contract manufacturers are subject to periodic regulatory inspections by the FDA and other regulatory agencies, and these facilities are subject to the FDA's Quality System Regulation and Good Manufacturing Practices. We or our contractors may fail to satisfy these regulatory requirements in the future, and any failure to do so may prevent us from selling our products. Some of our activities may subject us to risks under federal and state laws prohibiting “kickbacks” and false or fraudulent claims. We are subject to the provisions of a federal law commonly known as the anti-kickback statute, and several similar state laws, which prohibit payments intended to induce physicians or others either to refer patients or to acquire or arrange for or recommend the acquisition of healthcare products or services. While the federal law applies only to products or services for which payment may be made by a federal healthcare program, state laws often apply regardless of whether federal funds may be involved. These laws constrain the sales, marketing and other promotional activities of manufacturers of medical devices by limiting the kinds of financial arrangements, including sales programs that may be used with hospitals, physicians, laboratories and other potential purchasers of medical devices. Other federal and state laws generally prohibit individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent, or are for items or services that were not provided as claimed. Similarly, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act also includes stringent reporting requirements of financial relationships between device manufacturers and physicians and teaching hospitals. Specifically, under one provision of the law, which is commonly referred to as the Physician Payment Sunshine Act, we are required to collect data on and annually report to CMS certain payments or other transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals and annually report certain ownership and investment interests held by physicians or their immediate family members. Anti-kickback and false claims laws and the Physician Payment Sunshine Act prescribe civil and criminal penalties (including fines) for noncompliance that can be substantial. 26 Similarly, our international operations are subject to the provisions of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended (“FCPA”), which prohibits U.S. companies and their representatives from offering or making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. In many countries, the healthcare professionals we regularly interact with may meet the definition of a foreign official for purposes of the FCPA. Our international operations are also subject to various other international anti-bribery laws such as the UK Anti-Bribery Act. Despite meaningful measures that we undertake to facilitate lawful conduct, which include training and compliance programs and internal policies and procedures, we may not always prevent unauthorized, reckless or criminal acts by our employees or agents, or employees or agents of businesses or operations we may acquire. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our operations, involve significant management distraction and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also could be subject to adverse publicity, severe penalties, including criminal and civil penalties, disgorgement, further changes or enhancements to our procedures, policies and controls, personnel changes and other remedial actions. Moreover, our failure to comply with domestic or foreign laws could result in various adverse consequences, including possible delay in approval or refusal to approve a product, recalls, seizures, and withdrawal of an approved product from the market. We are subject to the risk of product liability claims relating to our products for which we may not have adequate insurance. Our business involves the risk of product liability and other claims inherent to the medical device business. If even one of our products is found to have caused or contributed to injuries or deaths, we could be held liable for substantial damages. We maintain product liability insurance subject to deductibles and exclusions. There is a risk that the insurance coverage will not be sufficient to protect us from product and other liability claims, or that product liability insurance will not be available to us at a reasonable cost, if at all. An under-insured or uninsured claim could harm our business and prospects. In addition, claims could adversely affect the reputation of the related product, which could damage that product’s competitive position in the market. The sale and use of our diagnostic products could also lead to product liability claims if someone were to allege that one of our products contained a design or manufacturing defect that resulted in inaccurate test results or the failure to detect a disorder for which it was being used to screen, or caused injuries to a patient. We are currently the subject of product liability litigation proceedings described in more detail under Note 15 to our consolidated financial statements entitled “Litigation and Related Matters”. The outcome of litigation is difficult to assess or quantify. Any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could result in an increase in our product liability insurance rates or the inability to secure additional coverage in the future. Also, even a meritless or unsuccessful product liability claim could be time consuming and expensive to defend. This could result in a diversion of management’s attention from our business and adversely affect the perceived safety and efficacy of our products, which could harm our business and prospects. We are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including related to our use and recycling of hazardous materials and the composition of our products. Our research and development and manufacturing processes involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, such as toxic and carcinogenic chemicals and various radioactive compounds, and the risk of contamination or injury from these materials cannot be eliminated. In such event, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, and any such liability could be extensive. From time to time new regulations are enacted, and it is difficult to anticipate how such regulations will be implemented and enforced. We continue to evaluate the necessary steps for compliance with regulations as they are enacted. These regulations include, for example, regulations enacted in the EU such as the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemical Substances, or REACH, which requires the registration of and regulates use of certain chemicals, the Restriction on the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive, or RoHS, which regulates the use of certain hazardous substances in certain products we manufacture, and the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive, or WEEE, which requires the collection, reuse and recycling of waste from certain products we manufacture. These and similar legislation that has been or is in the process of being enacted in Japan, China and various states of the U.S. may require us to re-design our products to ensure compliance with the applicable standards, for example by requiring the use of different types of materials. These redesigns or the use of alternative materials may detrimentally impact the performance of our products, add greater testing lead times for product introductions, result in additional costs or have other similar effects. In addition, changes in environmental laws and regulations, in particular relating to climate change and greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions, could require us, or our contract manufacturers or suppliers, to install additional equipment, or alter operations to incorporate new technologies or processes, which may result in additional expenses and adversely affect our operating results. We may also incur significant costs and utilize additional resources to comply with future regulations related to climate-related disclosures. We are also subject to other substantial regulation relating to environmental, health and safety matters, including occupational health and safety, environmental protection, hazardous substance control, and waste management and disposal. The failure to comply with such regulations could subject us to, among other things, fines and criminal liability. We may also 27 be required to incur significant costs to comply with these and future regulations, which may result in a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in tax laws or exposures to additional tax liabilities could negatively impact the Company's operating results. We are subject to income taxes, as well as taxes that are not income-based, in both the U.S. and jurisdictions outside of the U.S. Our future effective tax rate could be unfavorably affected by numerous factors including a change in, or the interpretation of, tax rules and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate (including changes in legislation currently being considered), a change in our geographic earnings mix, and/or to the jurisdictions in which we operate, or a change in the measurement of our deferred taxes. We are also subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions, and tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes. GLOBAL PUBLIC HEALTH CONCERNS Public health crises, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, have had, and could in the future have, a negative effect on our business. Pandemics or disease outbreaks, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, have created and may continue to create significant volatility, uncertainty and economic disruption in the markets we sell our products into and operate in, primarily the U.S., Europe, and Asia-Pacific and may negatively impact business and healthcare activity globally. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, governments around the world imposed measures designed to reduce the transmission of COVID-19 and individuals responded to the fear of contracting COVID-19. In particular, elective procedures and exams were delayed or cancelled, there has been a significant reduction in physician office visits, and hospitals postponed or canceled capital purchases as well as limited or eliminated services. While elective procedures and exams and capital purchases have increased from initially depressed levels, a reduction in elective procedures, exams and capital purchases has had, and we believe may continue to have, a negative impact on the sales of most of our products (other than our COVID-19 assays and related systems and ancillaries). Additionally, governments and other third-party payors around the world facing tightening budgets could move to further reduce the reimbursement rates or the scope of coverage offered, which could further adversely affect sales of our products. The extent to which fear of exposure to or actual effects of COVID-19, new variants, disease outbreak, epidemic or a similar widespread health concern impacts our business will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted with confidence, such as the speed and extent of geographic spread of the disease, the duration of the outbreak, travel restrictions, the efficacy of vaccination and treatment; impact on the U.S. and international healthcare systems, the U.S. economy and worldwide economy; the timing, scope and effectiveness of U.S. and international governmental response; and the impact on the health, well-being and productivity of our employees. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY Our business is dependent on technologies we license, and if we fail to maintain these licenses or license new technologies and rights to particular nucleic acid sequences for targeted diseases in the future, we may be limited in our ability to develop new products. Our business is dependent on licenses from third parties for some of our key technologies. For example, our patented TMA technology is based on technology we licensed from Stanford University. We anticipate that we will enter into new licensing arrangements in the ordinary course of business to expand our product portfolio and access new technologies to enhance our products and develop new products. Many of these licenses will provide us with exclusive rights to the subject technology or disease marker. If our license with respect to any of these technologies or markers is terminated for any reason, we may not be able to sell products that incorporate that technology. Similarly, we may lose competitive advantages if we fail to maintain exclusivity under an exclusive license. Our ability to develop additional diagnostic tests for diseases may depend on the ability of third parties to discover particular sequences or markers and correlate them with disease, as well as the rate at which such discoveries are made. Our ability to design products that target these diseases may depend on our ability to obtain the necessary rights from the third parties that make any of these discoveries. In addition, there are a finite number of diseases and conditions for which our NAT diagnostic assays may be economically viable. If we are unable to access new technologies or the rights to particular sequences or markers necessary for additional diagnostic products on commercially reasonable terms, we may be limited in our ability to develop new diagnostic products. 28 Our products and manufacturing processes may require access to technologies and materials that may be subject to patents or other intellectual property rights held by third parties. Our business could be adversely affected if we are unable to obtain the additional intellectual property rights necessary to commercialize our products. Our business could be harmed if we are unable to protect our proprietary technology. We have relied primarily on a combination of trade secrets, patents, copyrights, trademarks and confidentiality procedures to protect our products and technology. Despite these precautions, unauthorized third parties may infringe, misappropriate or otherwise violate our intellectual property, or copy or reverse engineer portions of our technology. The pursuit and assertion of a patent right, particularly in areas like nucleic acid diagnostics and biotechnology, involve complex determinations and, therefore, are characterized by substantial uncertainty. We do not know if current or future patent applications will be issued with the full scope of the claims sought, if at all, or whether any patents that are issued will be challenged or invalidated. The patents that we own or license could also be subjected to invalidation proceedings or similar disputes, and an unfavorable outcome could require us to cease using the related technology or to attempt to license rights to the technology from the prevailing party. There is also a risk that intellectual property laws outside of the U.S. will not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as intellectual property laws in the U.S. Even if our proprietary information is protected by patents or otherwise, the initiation of actions to protect our proprietary information could be costly and divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel, and the outcome of such litigation is often uncertain. As a result of these uncertainties, we could also elect to forego such litigation or settle such litigation without fully enforcing our proprietary rights. In the absence of significant patent protection, we may be vulnerable to competitors who attempt to copy our products, processes or technology. Additionally, rights provided by a patent are finite in time. Over the coming years, certain patents relating to current products will expire in the U.S. and abroad thus allowing third parties to utilize certain of our technologies. Our business could be harmed if we infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. There has been substantial litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the medical device, diagnostic products and related industries. We are and have been involved in patent litigation and may in the future be subject to further claims of infringement of intellectual property rights possessed by third parties. In connection with claims of patent infringement, we may seek to enter into settlement and/or licensing arrangements. There is a risk in these situations that no license will be available or that a license will not be available on reasonable terms. Alternatively, we may decide to litigate such claims or to design around the technology. These actions could be costly and would divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. As a result, any infringement claims by third parties or claims for indemnification by customers resulting from infringement claims, whether or not proven to be true, may harm our business and prospects. INDEBTEDNESS We have a significant amount of indebtedness outstanding, which limits our operating flexibility, and could adversely affect our operations and financial results and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations . As of September 30, 2023, we had approximately $2.84 billion aggregate principal of indebtedness outstanding (exclusive of additional funds that would be available to draw under our revolver). We also have other contractual obligations and deferred tax liabilities, which as of September 30, 2023, are described under “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — Income Taxes, and Non-cancelable Purchase Commitments.” This significant level of indebtedness and our other obligations may: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our outstanding indebtedness; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including increases in interest rates; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to interest and principal payments on our indebtedness, which would reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, expansion efforts, strategic transactions and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the markets in which we participate; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and • limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, expansion efforts, strategic transactions or other general corporate purposes. In addition, the terms of our financing obligations contain certain covenants that restrict our ability, and that of our subsidiaries, to engage in certain transactions and may impair our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions, including, among other things, limitations on our ability to: • incur indebtedness or issue certain preferred equity; • pay dividends, repurchase our common stock, or make other distributions or restricted payments; • make certain investments; 29 • agree to payment restrictions affecting the restricted subsidiaries; • sell or otherwise transfer or dispose of assets, including equity interests of our subsidiaries; • enter into transactions with our affiliates; • create liens; • designate our subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries; • consolidate, merge or sell substantially all of our assets; and • use the proceeds of permitted sales of our assets. Our credit facilities also require us to satisfy certain financial covenants. Our ability to comply with these provisions may be affected by general economic conditions, political decisions, industry conditions and other events beyond our control. Our failure to comply with the covenants contained in our credit facilities, including financial covenants, could result in an event of default, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. If there were an event of default under one of our debt instruments or a change of control, the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to be due and payable immediately and may be cross-defaulted to other debt, including our outstanding notes. Our assets or cash flow may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments if accelerated upon an event of default or a change of control, and there is no guarantee that we would be able to repay, refinance or restructure the payments on such debt. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Liquidity and Capital Resources.” We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to service all of our indebtedness and other obligations. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures, strategic transactions and expansion efforts will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Our business may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations, and we cannot assure that future borrowings will be available to us in amounts sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness as such indebtedness matures and to fund our other liquidity needs. If this occurs, we will need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. We may need to adopt one or more alternatives, such as reducing or delaying planned expenses and capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring debt, or obtaining additional equity or debt financing. These alternative strategies may not be effected on satisfactory terms, if at all. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness or obtain additional financing, or to do so on commercially reasonable terms, will depend on, among other things, our financial condition at the time, restrictions in agreements governing our indebtedness, and other factors, including the condition of the financial markets and the markets in which we compete. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, and additional borrowings, refinancings or proceeds from asset sales are not available to us, we may not have sufficient cash to enable us to meet all of our obligations. A significant portion of our indebtedness is subject to floating interest rates, which may expose us to higher interest payments. A significant portion of our indebtedness is subject to floating interest rates, which makes us more vulnerable in the event of adverse economic conditions, increases in prevailing interest rates, or a downturn in our business. As of September 30, 2023, approximately $1.5 billion aggregate principal of our indebtedness, which represented the outstanding principal under our credit facilities, was subject to floating interest rates. We currently have hedging arrangements (interest rate swaps) in place to partially mitigate the impact of higher interest rates. We have an interest rate swap in the notional amount of $1.0 billion expiring on December 17, 2023, and have entered into two consecutive interest rate swaps that will provide us with a continued hedge, in the notional amounts of $500 million, through September 25, 2026, following the expiration of our current interest rate swap. The new interest rate swaps are at higher interest rates than the current swaps. As a result of the lower notional amount and higher interest rates, we expect that we will continue to have exposure to increased interest rates and incur charges for interest at a higher rate, following the expiration of our current interest rate swap on December 17, 2023. GENERAL RISK FACTORS Provisions in our charter, bylaws, and indebtedness may have the effect of discouraging advantageous offers for our business or common stock and limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Our charter, bylaws, and the provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law include provisions that may have the effect of discouraging or preventing a change of control. Our indebtedness also contains provisions which either accelerate or require us to offer to repurchase the indebtedness at a premium upon a change of control. These provisions could limit the price that our stockholders might receive in the future for shares of our common stock. 30 Our stock price is volatile. The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile. We believe that a variety of factors could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially, including: • new, or changes in, recommendations, guidelines or studies that could affect the use of our products; • announcements and rumors of developments related to our business, including changes in reimbursement rates or regulatory requirements, proposed and completed acquisitions, or the industry in which we compete; • published studies and reports relating to the comparative efficacy of products and markets in which we participate; • quarterly fluctuations in our actual or anticipated operating results and order levels; • general conditions in the U.S. or worldwide economy; • our stock repurchase program; • announcements of technological innovations; • new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; • developments in patents or other intellectual property rights and litigation; • developments in relationships with our customers and suppliers; • the implementation of healthcare reform legislation and the adoption of additional reform legislation in the future; and • the success or lack of success of integrating our acquisitions. In addition, the stock market in general and the markets for shares of “high-tech” and life sciences companies, have historically experienced extreme price fluctuations which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of affected companies. Any such fluctuations in the future could adversely affect the market price of our common stock, and the market price of our common stock may decline.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements, the information described under the caption “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report and our Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements at the outset of this Annual Report. OVERVIEW We are a developer, manufacturer and supplier of premium diagnostics products, medical imaging systems and surgical products focused on women's health and well-being through early detection and treatment. We sell and service our products through a combination of direct sales and service personnel and a network of independent distributors and sales representatives. We operate in four segments: Diagnostics, Breast Health, GYN Surgical and Skeletal Health. Through our Diagnostics segment, we offer a wide range of diagnostic products, which are used primarily to aid in the screening and diagnosis of human diseases. Our primary Diagnostics products include our molecular diagnostic assays, which run on our advanced instrumentation systems (Panther, Panther Fusion and Tigris), our ThinPrep cytology system, and the Rapid Fetal Fibronectin Test. Our Aptima family of molecular diagnostic assays is used to detect, among other things, the infectious microorganisms that cause common sexually transmitted diseases, or STDs, such as chlamydia and gonorrhea, or CT/NG; certain high-risk strains of human papillomavirus, or HPV; Trichomonas vaginalis , the parasite that causes trichomoniasis; Mycoplasma genitalium; and Herpes Simplex viruses 1 and 2. We also offer viral load tests for the quantitation of Hepatitis B virus, Hepatitis C virus, human immunodeficiency virus, or HIV, and human cytomegalo virus, or CMV, for use on our Panther instrument system. In addition, we offer bacterial vaginosis and candida vaginitis assays for the diagnosis of vaginitis, a common and complex ailment affecting millions of women a year. Our assay portfolio also includes diagnostic tests for a range of acute respiratory infections, including SARS-CoV-2, various strains of influenza and parainfluenza, and respiratory syncytial virus, as well as a test for the detection of Group B Streptococcus, or GBS, that are run on the Panther Fusion system, a field upgradeable instrument addition to the base Panther system. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we developed and launched the Aptima SARS-CoV-2 assay and the Aptima SARS-CoV-2/Flu assay (each of which runs on our standard Panther system) and the Panther Fusion SARS-CoV-2 assay (which runs on our Panther Fusion system). In May 2022, we CE-marked two new molecular assays, Panther Fusion EBV Quant assay for quantitation of Epstein-Barr virus, and the Panther Fusion BKV Quant assay for quantitation of the BK virus. These two new assays are the first quantitative real-time PCR assays on the Panther Fusion system. These assays, along with the Aptima CMV Quant assay, expand our Panther Fusion menu of transplant monitoring assays. The ThinPrep System is primarily used in cytology applications, such as cervical cancer screening, and the Rapid Fetal Fibronectin Test assists physicians in assessing the risk of pre-term birth. We also generate service revenues from our CLIA-certified laboratory for testing related to breast cancer and all metastatic cancers. Our Breast Health segment offers a broad portfolio of solutions for breast cancer care primarily in the areas of radiology, breast surgery, pathology and treatment. These solutions include 3D digital mammography systems, image analytics software utilizing artificial intelligence, reading workstations, minimally invasive breast biopsy guidance systems, breast biopsy site markers, localization, specimen radiology, connectivity solutions and breast conserving surgery products. Our most advanced breast imaging platforms, Selenia 3D Dimensions and 3Dimensions, utilize tomosynthesis to produce 3D images that show multiple contiguous slice images of the breast, which we refer to as the Genius 3D Mammography exam. Our GYN Surgical products include our MyoSure Hysteroscopic Tissue Removal System, or MyoSure, NovaSure Endometrial Ablation System, or NovaSure, our Fluent Fluid Management system, or Fluent, our Acessa ProVu laparoscopic radiofrequency ablation system, or Acessa ProVu system, as well as our CoolSeal vessel sealing portfolio and our JustRight surgical stapler. The MyoSure suite of devices offers four options to provide incision-less removal of fibroids, polyps, and other pathology within the uterus. The NovaSure portfolio is comprised of the NovaSure CLASSIC and NovaSure ADVANCED devices and most recently, the NovaSure portfolio V5 device for the treatment of abnormal uterine bleeding. The Fluent system is a fluid management system that provides liquid distention during diagnostic and operative hysteroscopic procedures. The Acessa ProVu system is a fully integrated system that uses laparoscopic ultrasound, guidance mapping and radio frequency ablation to treat nearly all types of fibroids. The CoolSeal portfolio includes the Trinity, Reveal, and Mini advanced bipolar vessel sealing devices. The JustRight surgical stapler features a smaller instrument profile and is used for laparoscopic general and pediatric surgery. Our Skeletal Health segment's products includes our Horizon DXA, a dual energy x-ray system, which evaluates bone density and performs body composition assessments, and our Fluoroscan Insight FD mini C-arm, which assists in performing minimally invasive orthopedic surgical procedures on a patient's extremities, such as the hand, wrist, knee, foot, and ankle. Unless the context otherwise requires, references to we, us, Hologic or our company refer to Hologic, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. 35 Supply Chain Considerations The current worldwide supply chain shortages and constraints continue to impact, although to a lesser extent compared to fiscal 2022, our ability to obtain certain critical raw materials and components used primarily in our Breast Health capital equipment products. We are also dependent on a small number of semiconductor manufacturers and their allocation of chips to us. Based on our recent experience and current understanding of their allocation of chips to us, we have been able to and expect that we will continue to be able to increase production to normalized levels. If such allocation does not meet our expectations or we are not able to obtain alternative sources of chips, we believe we will not be able to manufacture sufficient quantities of our capital equipment products, primarily Selenia Dimensions and 3Dimension systems, Trident specimen radiography systems and Affirm Prone biopsy systems to meet customer demand and our results of operations would be adversely affected. In addition, the prices of certain raw materials and components have been rising due to certain supply chain shortages and inflation and could increase our costs further. Acquisitions and Dispositions The following sets forth a description of certain of our acquisitions and dispositions we have completed in our last two fiscal years: SuperSonic Imagine Ultrasound Imaging On September 28, 2023, we entered into a definitive agreement to sell our SSI ultrasound imaging business to SSH Holdings Limited for a sales price of $1.9 million in cash. The sale was completed on October 3, 2023. We have also agreed to provide certain transition services for up to one year, depending on the nature of the service. The SSI ultrasound imaging asset group met the criteria to be classified as assets held-for-sale in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2023. As a result, we recorded a charge of $51.7 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2023 to record the asset group at its fair value less costs to sell pursuant to ASC 360, Property, Plant and Equipment—Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets . JW Medical On July 3, 2023, we completed the acquisition of assets from JW Medical Corporation (“JW Medical”) for a purchase price of $6.7 million. JW Medical was a long-standing distributor of our Breast Health products in South Korea. Normedi On April 3, 2023, we completed the acquisition of Normedi Nordic AS (“Normedi”) for a purchase price of $7.7 million, which includes $1.1 million for contingent consideration. Normedi was a long-standing distributor of our Surgical products in the Nordics region of Europe. Bolder Surgical On November 29, 2021, we completed the acquisition of Bolder Surgical Holdings, Inc. (“Bolder”) for a purchase price of $160.1 million. Bolder, located in Louisville, Colorado, is a developer and manufacturer of energy vessel sealing surgical devices used in both laparoscopic and open procedures. Based on our valuation, we allocated $96.7 million of the purchase price to the value of intangible assets and $68.8 million to goodwill. Bolder's results of operations are reported in our GYN Surgical segment. 36 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Fiscal Year Ended September 30, 2023 Compared to Fiscal Year Ended September 24, 2022 Product Revenues We had a decrease in product revenue of 21.7% in fiscal 2023 compared to fiscal 2022. This decrease was primarily due to the decline in revenues in the Diagnostics business as a result of lower COVID-19 assay sales. This decrease in product revenue was partially offset by an increase in Breast Health and Skeletal Health revenue as supply chain constraints continued to ease, an increase in GYN Surgical revenues, as well as an extra week of activity in the current fiscal year compared to the prior fiscal year. Diagnostics product revenues decreased 39.7% in fiscal 2023 compared to fiscal 2022 primarily due to a decrease in Molecular Diagnostics of $1,173.2 million, partially offset by an increase in Cytology and Perinatal revenue of $6.8 million, and an increase in Blood Screening of $6.2 million. Molecular Diagnostics product revenue was $1,254.3 million in fiscal 2023 compared to $2,427.5 million in fiscal 2022. The decrease was primarily attributable to a reduction of $1,182.3 million in sales of our two SARS-CoV-2 assays (primarily the Aptima SARS-CoV-2 assay and to a lesser extent the Panther Fusion SARS-CoV-2 assay) to $248.2 million in fiscal 2023 compared to $1,430.5 million in fiscal 2022 primarily due to lower demand from an improvement in the COVID-19 pandemic compared to the prior year, the increasing use of rapid tests and a decrease in average selling prices internationally. We also had a decrease in sales of collection devices as a result of lower assay sales, lower Panther instruments sales as demand for those instruments has decreased, which we primarily attribute to our significantly expanded install base and the decline in the COVID-19 pandemic in the current year, and lower Mobidiag product sales. These decreases were partially offset by an increase of $86.3 million in our Aptima assays (exclusive of our SARS-CoV-2 assay), primarily driven by an increase in our CV Candida, Bacterial Vaginosis, and CT/NG assay volumes, which we attribute to an increase in wellness visits and expanded adoption by our laboratory customers. In addition, we had an increase in worldwide sales of our Fusion respiratory products, which we attribute to a strong flu season, and Quant Viral assays, including our HIV assay sold in Africa, in the current fiscal year. Within Cytology & Perinatal, we had an increase in sales of our ThinPrep Pap Test products driven by increased demand which we primarily attribute to the increase in wellness visits following the recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic, partially offset by lower Perinatal volumes in Europe. We also experienced a decline in revenue from international sales denominated in foreign currencies from the unfavorable foreign currency exchange impact of the strengthened U.S. dollar against a number of currencies. Breast Health product revenues increased 22.9% in fiscal 2023 compared to fiscal 2022 primarily due to a significant increase in volumes of our digital mammography systems, primarily Selenia 3D Dimensions and 3Dimensions systems and related workstation and workflow products including software, and to a lesser extent an increase in Trident systems unit sales and higher Faxitron breast conserving surgery products. The increase in volume was primarily driven by the improvement in supply chain constraints related to electronic components, primarily semiconductor chips, which impacted our ability to manufacture sufficient quantities to meet customer demand in the prior year. These increases were slightly offset by a reduction in the volume of our ultrasound imaging products. In addition, we had an increase in sales of our interventional breast solutions products of $8.7 million in the current fiscal year compared to the prior fiscal year primarily driven by higher Brevera systems sales and related disposables, partially offset by lower volumes of Eviva handpieces. We also experienced a decline in revenue from international sales denominated in foreign currencies from the unfavorable foreign currency exchange impact of the strengthened U.S. dollar against a number of currencies. 37 GYN Surgical product revenues increased 15.1% in fiscal 2023 compared to fiscal 2022, primarily due to increases in the sales volume of our MyoSure devices, Fluent Fluid Management disposables and NovaSure devices as procedure rates continue to recover from the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and to a lesser extent an increase in sales volume of our CoolSeal vessel sealers from the Bolder acquisition as we expand physician adoption. Partially offsetting this increase was the negative effect on revenue from international sales denominated in foreign currencies from the unfavorable foreign currency exchange impact of the strengthened U.S. dollar against a number of currencies. Skeletal Health product revenues increased 21.9% in fiscal 2023 compared to fiscal 2022 primarily due to an increase in sales volume of our Horizon DXA systems and to a lesser extent our InSight FD Fluoroscan systems and system upgrades. The sales volume increase was largely attributable to the easing of supply chain constraints. Product revenues by geography as a percentage of total revenues were as follows: The percentage of product revenue derived from the U.S. increased while Europe and Asia-Pacific decreased, which we primarily attribute to the significant increase in the U.S. of Breast Health capital equipment sales and related workflow products including software, and increases in Aptima assay sales (exclusive of our Aptima SARS-CoV-2 assays), Surgical devices and disposables including MyoSure, Fluent, and CoolSeal, as well as a lesser decline in SARS-CoV-2 assay volume in the U.S. compared to Europe and Asia-Pacific. Product revenue decreased in China in the current year which we primarily attribute to surges of COVID-19 and related shutdowns in the first six months of the current year, which primarily impacted the sale of our Diagnostics products (excluding SARS-CoV-2 assays) and digital mammography systems. The percentage of product revenue increased in Rest of World in the current year primarily due to an increase in Breast Health capital equipment sales and to a lesser extent Surgical sales for Canada, the Middle East, and Latin America, partially offset by a decrease in SARS-CoV-2 assay volumes in the Rest of World. Service and Other Revenues Service and other revenues are primarily comprised of revenue generated from our field service organization to provide ongoing service, installation and repair of our products. The majority of these revenues are generated within our Breast Health segment. Service and other revenues increased 11.7% in fiscal 2023 compared to fiscal 2022 primarily due to the continued conversion of a high percentage of our installed base of digital mammography systems to service contracts upon expiration of the warranty period, and to a lesser extent an increase in spare parts and installation and training revenue related to an increase in sales of our mammography systems. In the current year, revenues were also higher from the extra week of service contract activity, resulting in $7.9 million of incremental revenue. In our Diagnostics business, service revenue increased as a result of higher lab testing volumes from our Biotheranostics CLIA laboratory, which we primarily attribute to market acceptance from increased marketing efforts and improved customer experience. Cost of Product Revenues 38 ** Percentage not meaningful Product gross margin was 52.1% in fiscal 2023 compared to 64.7% in fiscal 2022. Cost of Product Revenues. The cost of product revenues as a percentage of product revenues was 36.1% in the current year compared to 27.8% in the prior year. Cost of product revenues as a percentage of revenue increased in fiscal 2023 primarily due to a decrease in sales of our SARS-CoV-2 assays, which have higher gross margins compared to our other Diagnostic products and comprised 7.6% and 34.1% of total product revenue in fiscal 2023 and fiscal 2022, respectively. Higher product costs from supply chain constraints and inflation also contributed to the increase in the cost of product revenue. This increase was partially offset by higher sales of our digital mammography systems and related software products. Diagnostics' product costs as a percentage of revenue increased in fiscal 2023 compared to fiscal 2022 primarily due to lower sales of our SARS-CoV-2 assays, a slight decline in average selling prices of certain assays, a $24.7 million charge recorded in the fourth quarter to write-off inventory related to a certain product line discontinuance, unfavorable manufacturing variances at certain of our manufacturing facilities and higher field service costs for our expanded instrument installed base. Partially offsetting this increase was lower sales of instruments, which carry low margins, an increase in sales of our Aptima, Fusion, and Quant Viral assays, and lower freight costs internationally. Breast Health’s product costs as a percentage of revenue decreased in fiscal 2023 compared to fiscal 2022 primarily due to higher sales volumes of our higher margin products, primarily 3D Dimensions, and improved manufacturing utilization partially offset by a slight decline in average selling prices of our biopsy disposables due to competitive pressures, and higher prices of raw materials and components from supply chain constraints and inflation. Also partially offsetting the decrease in product costs as a percentage of revenue was an increase in inventory reserves and freight. GYN Surgical’s product costs as a percentage of revenue increased slightly in fiscal 2023 compared to fiscal 2022 primarily due to product mix of higher volumes of lower margin products, mostly attributable to sales of our Fluent Fluid Management systems, CoolSeal vessel sealers and scopes, partially offset by an increase in volume of higher margin products, primarily MyoSure and NovaSure, as procedure rates continue to recover from the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and higher average selling prices of our NovaSure V5 device. Skeletal Health’s product costs as a percentage of revenue decreased in fiscal 2023 compared to fiscal 2022 primarily due to higher sales volumes of our Horizon DXA systems, upgrades and Insight FD systems as well as an increase in average selling prices of our Horizon DXA systems, partially offset by a decrease in average selling prices of our Insight FD systems and higher component costs from supply chain constraints and inflation. Amortization of Acquired Intangible Assets. Amortization of intangible assets included in cost of product revenues relates to acquired developed technology, which is generally amortized over its estimated useful life of between 5 and 15 years using a straight-line method or, if reliably determinable, based on the pattern in which the economic benefits of the assets are expected to be consumed. Amortization expense decreased in fiscal 2023 compared to fiscal 2022 primarily due to lower amortization of intangible assets acquired in the Cytyc acquisition which became fully amortized in the beginning of the first quarter of fiscal 2023 and to a lesser extent, lower amortization of intangible assets acquired in the Mobidiag and SSI acquisitions due to impairment charges recorded in the third quarter of fiscal 2023, and lower amortization of intangible assets acquired in the Focal and Faxitron acquisitions due to impairments in the prior year. 39 Impairment of Intangible Assets and Equipment. During the third quarter of fiscal 2023, in connection with our company-wide annual budgeting and strategic planning process as well as evaluating the current operating performance of our Mobidiag business (included in the Diagnostics reportable segment), including product design and manufacturing requirements, we reassessed the short-term and long-term commercial plans for this business. We made certain operational and strategic decisions to invest and focus more on the long-term success of this business, which resulted in the significant reduction of forecasted revenues and operating results. As a result, we determined indicators of impairment existed and performed an undiscounted cash flow analysis pursuant to ASC 360, Property, Plant, and Equipment - Overall , to determine if the cash flows expected to be generated by the Mobidiag business over the estimated remaining useful life of its primary asset were sufficient to recover the carrying value of the asset group. Based on this analysis the undiscounted cash flows were not sufficient to recover the carrying value of the long-lived assets. Therefore, we were required to perform Step 3 of the impairment test and determine the fair value of the asset group. To estimate the fair value of the asset group, we utilized the income approach, which is based on a discounted cash flow (DCF) analysis and calculates the fair value by estimating the after-tax cash flows attributable to the asset group and then discounting the after-tax cash flows to present value using a risk-adjusted discount rate. Assumptions used in the DCF require significant judgment, including judgment about appropriate discount rates, growth rates, and the amount and timing of expected future cash flows. The forecasted cash flows were based on our most recent strategic plan and for periods beyond the strategic plan, our estimates were based on assumed growth rates expected as of the measurement date. We believe the assumptions were consistent with the plans and estimates that a market participant would use to manage the business. The discount rate used is intended to reflect the risks inherent in future cash flow projections and was based on an estimate of the weighted average cost of capital (WACC) of market participants relative to the asset group. We used a discount rate of 17.0%. As a result of this analysis, the fair value of the Mobidiag asset group was below its carrying value. To record the asset group to fair value, we recorded an impairment charge of $186.9 million during the third quarter of fiscal 2023. The impairment charge was allocated to the long-lived assets on a pro-rata basis and $153.7 million of developed technology assets and $9.1 million of equipment was written off to cost of product revenues. Prior to recording this impairment charge, we determined that the in-process research and development asset (“IPR&D”) recorded in connection with the Mobidiag acquisition was impaired and based on its fair value determined utilizing the DCF, we recorded an impairment charge of $10.5 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2023. We believe our assumptions used to determine the fair value of the asset group were reasonable. Actual operating results and the related cash flows of the asset group could differ from the estimated operating results and related cash flows. In the event the asset group does not meet its forecasted projections, additional impairment charges could be recorded in the future. In addition to the impairment charges discussed above, we also identified indicators of impairment related to our SSI ultrasound imaging business (included in the Breast Health reportable segment). We determined that the fair value of this asset group was approximately zero and the carrying value of the long-lived assets was fully impaired. As a result, we recorded an impairment charge of $26.4 million. The impairment charge was allocated to the long-lived assets and $16.7 million of developed technology assets were written off to cost of product revenues. In fiscal 2022, we determined that certain developed technology assets acquired in the Focal and Faxitron acquisitions were impaired as a result of the decision to cease selling certain low volume products. As a result, we recorded an impairment charge of $17.4 million to write-off these developed technology assets. Cost of Service and Other Revenues Service and other revenues gross margin was 48.1% in fiscal 2023 compared to 42.5% in fiscal 2022. The increase in gross margin was primarily due to an increase in lab testing revenue from our Biotheranostics business, which has higher margins than our legacy service business, and an increase in the average selling prices and attachment rates of our Breast Health service contracts and time and material billings. Operating Expenses 40 ** Percentage not meaningful Research and Development Expenses. Research and development expenses increased 3.8% in fiscal 2023 compared to fiscal 2022 primarily due to an increase in compensation and benefits primarily from our deferred compensation plan and an extra week of expenses in the current fiscal year and an increase in Breast Health as the prior year period included a $5.2 million credit for the release of a research and development tax credit reserve related to the SSI acquisition. This increase was partially offset by a reduction in expenses to implement the European Medical Device Regulation (MDR) and In Vitro Diagnostic Regulation (IVDR) requirements. At any point in time, we have a number of different research projects and clinical trials being conducted and the timing of these projects and related costs can vary from period to period. Selling and Marketing Expenses. Selling and marketing expenses decreased 5.6% in fiscal 2023 compared to fiscal 2022 primarily due to lower spending on advertising and marketing initiatives as the prior year included a significantly larger sponsorship amount in fiscal 2022 for the Women's Tennis Association, the airing of our Super Bowl commercial, and grants supporting women’s health initiatives. These decreases were partially offset by higher compensation and benefits primarily driven by higher commissions from the increase in Breast Health and GYN Surgical sales, an increase in headcount, higher expense from our deferred compensation plan and an extra week of expenses in the current fiscal year, and to a lesser extent higher travel and meeting expenses. General and Administrative Expenses. General and administrative expenses decreased 3.8% in fiscal 2023 compared to fiscal 2022 primarily due to a decrease in charitable donations of $23.0 million, a $7.4 million settlement awarded to Hologic in the Minerva litigation received in the first quarter of fiscal 2023, and lower tax consulting and legal expenses. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in compensation and benefits from higher expense from our deferred compensation plan due to stock market gains and an increase in stock compensation, an $8.9 million charge to settle a business dispute in connection with terminating the Mobidiag joint venture agreement in China, an increase in information systems infrastructure and facilities costs, an increase in reserves for sales and use tax matters, higher travel, and higher compensation and benefits from the extra week in the current fiscal year. Amortization of Acquired Intangible Assets. Amortization of acquired intangible assets primarily results from customer relationships and trade names related to our acquisitions. These intangible assets are generally amortized over their estimated useful lives of between 5 and 30 years using a straight-line method or, if reliably determinable, based on the pattern in which the economic benefits of the assets are expected to be consumed utilizing expected undiscounted future cash flows. Amortization expense decreased 37.8% in fiscal 2023 compared to fiscal 2022 primarily due to assets from our Cytyc acquisition becoming fully amortized at the beginning of the first quarter of fiscal 2023. Impairment of Intangible Assets and Equipment. As discussed above, we recorded an aggregate impairment charge of $197.4 million in the third quarter of fiscal 2023 related to our Mobidiag acquisition and $26.4 million related to our SSI ultrasound imaging assets. The impairment charges were allocated to the long-lived assets and written off to operating expenses as follows: Mobidiag - $10.5 million to IPR&D, $10.4 million to customer relationships, $10.7 million to trade names, and $3.0 41 million to equipment; Ultrasound Imaging - $2.4 million to customer relationships, $1.7 million to trade names, and $5.6 million to equipment. Contingent Consideration Fair Value Adjustments. In connection with the acquisition of Acessa Health, Inc., or Acessa, we are obligated to make contingent earn-out payments. The payments are based on achieving incremental revenue growth over a three-year period ending annually in each of December 2021, 2022, and 2023. As of the acquisition date, we recorded a contingent consideration liability for the estimated fair value of the amount we expected to pay to the former shareholders of the acquired business. This liability is not contingent on future employment, and we recorded our estimate of the fair value of the contingent consideration liability utilizing the Monte Carlo simulation based on future revenue projections of Acessa, comparable company revenue growth rates, implied volatility and applying a risk adjusted discount rate. Increases or decreases in the fair value of contingent consideration liabilities can result from the passage of time, changes in discount rates, and changes in the timing, probabilities and amount of revenue estimates. In the current year, we recorded a gain of $14.9 million based on a decrease in forecasted revenues over the remaining earn-out period. In fiscal 2022, we recorded a gain of $39.5 million primarily due to a reduction in forecasted revenues over the measurement period and to a lesser extent an increase in the discount rate from higher market interest rates. Loss on Assets Held-For-Sale. As discussed above, we recorded a charge of $51.7 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2023 related to our SSI ultrasound imaging assets to record the asset group to fair value less the costs to sell. Restructuring Charges. We have implemented various cost reduction initiatives to align our cost structure with our operations and related to integration activities. These actions have primarily resulted in the termination of employees. As a result, we recorded charges of $12.0 million in fiscal 2023 and $2.4 million in fiscal 2022, primarily related to severance benefits. For additional information, please refer to Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements. Interest Income Interest income in fiscal 2023 increased significantly compared to fiscal 2022 due to the significant increase in market interest rates over the past eighteen months as the U.S. Federal Reserve began periodically raising its Federal Funds Rate starting in March 2022. To a lesser extent, the increase in interest income was due to higher average cash balances in the current year compared to the prior year. Interest Expense Interest expense in fiscal 2023 and 2022 primarily consisted of the cash interest costs and the related amortization of the debt discount and deferred issuance costs on our outstanding debt. Interest expense increased in fiscal 2023 compared to fiscal 2022 primarily due to an increase in the variable interest rate under our 2021 Credit Agreement based on SOFR, partially offset by $35.4 million received under an interest rate swap agreement, which hedges the benchmark interest rate, versus payments of $4.9 million under the interest rate swap in the prior year period. In addition, the prior year interest expense included debt refinancing costs for our 2021 Credit Agreement, and interest expense related to debt acquired in the Mobidiag acquisition which was paid off in the prior year. Other Income (Expense), net In fiscal 2023, this account primarily consisted of net foreign currency exchange losses of $7.9 million, primarily from the mark-to-market of foreign currency contracts used to hedge operating results, partially offset by a gain of $5.6 million from 42 the change in cash surrender value of life insurance contracts related to our deferred compensation plan driven by stock market gains. In fiscal 2022, this account primarily consisted of net foreign currency exchange gains of $48.5 million, primarily from settling forward foreign currency hedging transactions and mark-to-market of outstanding foreign currency contracts, and a $2.4 million gain on life insurance proceeds as a result of the death of a former employee, partially offset by a loss of $12.2 million from the change in cash surrender value of life insurance contracts related to our deferred compensation plan primarily driven by stock market losses, a $4.0 million impairment charge of an equity investment and a charge of $4.3 million to write-off an equity method investment acquired in the Mobidiag acquisition. Provision for Income Taxes Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2023 was a provision of 32.6%. The effective tax rate was higher than the U.S. statutory tax rate primarily due to the tax effect of the SSI ultrasound imaging assets-held-for-sale charge, income tax reserves, the global intangible low-taxed income inclusion, and state income taxes, partially offset by the impact of the U.S. deduction for foreign derived intangible income, and the geographic mix of income earned by our international subsidiaries, which are taxed at rates lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate. Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2022 was a provision of 18.0%. The effective tax rate was lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate primarily due to the impact of the U.S. deduction for foreign derived intangible income, reserve releases resulting from statute of limitations expirations and favorable audit settlements (net of reserve additions for uncertain tax positions), the geographic mix of income earned by the Company's international subsidiaries, which are taxed at rates lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate and a tax benefit related to an internal restructuring, partially offset by state income taxes and the global intangible low-taxed income inclusion. Segment Results of Operations We operate in four segments: Diagnostics, Breast Health, GYN Surgical, and Skeletal Health. The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in the footnotes to the accompanying consolidated financial statements contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report. We measure segment performance based on total revenues and operating income (loss). Revenues from product sales of each of these segments are described in further detail above. The discussion that follows is a summary analysis of total revenues and the primary changes in operating income or loss by segment. Diagnostics Diagnostics revenues decreased in fiscal 2023 compared to fiscal 2022 primarily due to the decrease in product revenues discussed above, partially offset by higher lab testing revenue from our Biotheranostics business. Operating income for this business segment decreased in fiscal 2023 compared to fiscal 2022 primarily due to a decrease i n gross profit from lower SARS-CoV-2 assay sales and the Mobidiag impairment charges of $197.4 million recorded in the third quarter discussed above. Gross margin was 44.7% in the current year compared to 67.1% in the prior year. The decrease in gross margin was primarily due to decreased sales of our SARS-CoV-2 assays which have a higher margin, a slight decline in average selling prices of certain assays, the impairment charges discussed above of which $162.8 million was included in costs of revenues, a $24.7 million charge to write-off inventory related to a product line discontinuance, unfavorable manufacturing variances at certain of our manufacturing facilities and higher field service costs from our expanded instrument installed base, partially offset by increases in core Aptima assay and ThinPrep Pap Test volumes, higher lab testing revenue and a $41.4 million decrease in intangible asset amortization expense as assets acquired in the Cytyc acquisition became fully amortized in the current year. Also partially offsetting the decrease was an increase in Fusion respiratory and Quant Viral assay volumes in the current fiscal year and lower freight costs internationally. 43 Operating expenses decrea sed in fiscal 2023 compared to fiscal 2022 primarily due to a decrease in marketing expenses and allocated advertising and charitable donations, a decrease in intangible asset amortization expense, and a decrease in commissions and bonus as well as lower consulting costs. Partially offsetting these decreases was the impairment charge discussed above of which $34.6 million was included in operating expenses, a settlement charge of $8.9 million related to the termination of the Mobidiag joint venture in China, an increase in compensation and benefits from the extra week in the current fiscal year, an increase in facilities cost and an increase in travel expenses. Breast Health Breast Health revenues increased in fiscal 2023 compared to fiscal 2022 primarily due to an increase in product and service revenue discussed above. Operating income for this business segment increased in fiscal 2023 compared to fiscal 2022 primarily due to an increase in gross profit from both product sales and services, partially offset by an increase in operating expenses. Gross margin was 54.8% in the current year compared to 51.9% in the prior year. The increase in gross margin is primarily due to higher volumes of our capital equipment and related software sales, and interventional breast solutions devices, an increase in service margin from the continued conversion of digital mammography systems to service contracts and to a lesser extent the extra week in the current fiscal year and an increase in the average selling prices and attachment rates of our service contracts . These increases were partially offset by the impairment charges related to our SSI ultrasound imaging business discussed above, of which $16.7 million was included in cost of revenues, and higher costs for raw materials and components from supply chain constraints and inflation, and a slight decline in average selling prices of our biopsy disposables. We also had an increase in inventory reserves and freight in the current year. Opera ting expenses increased in fiscal 2023 compared to fiscal 2022 primarily due to the loss on assets-held-for-sale of $51.7 million and impairment charges related to our SSI ultrasound imaging business discussed above, of which $9.7 million was included in operating expenses, an increase in commissions from higher sales, an increase in travel and meeting expense and higher restructuring costs, partially offset by a decrease due to the release of the research and development credit reserve related to the SSI acquisition and a decrease in marketing initiatives, allocated advertising and charitable contributions. In addition, there was an increase in compensation and benefits from the extra week in the current year. GYN Surgical GYN Surgical revenues increased in fiscal 2023 compared to fiscal 2022 due to the increase in product revenues discussed above. Operating income for this business segment increased in fiscal 2023 compared to fiscal 2022 primarily due to an increase in gross profit offset by an increase in operating expenses. Gross margin was 67.7% in the current year, compared to 59.2% in the prior year. The increase in gross margin was primarily due to a decrease in intangible asset amortization expense of $41.2 million in the current year as assets acquired in the Cytyc acquisition became fully amortized, an increase in volume of higher margin products, primarily MyoSure and NovaSure, as procedure rates continue to recover from the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and higher average selling prices of our NovaSure V5 device. These increases were partially offset by higher volumes of lower margin products, mostly attributable to sales of our Fluent Fluid Management systems, CoolSeal vessel sealers and scopes. 44 Operating expen ses increased in fiscal 2023 compared to fiscal 2022 primarily due to a gain of $39.5 million recorded in the prior fiscal year compared to a gain of $14.9 million recorded in the current year to decrease the Acessa contingent consideration liability to fair value. In addition, we had an increase in compensation and benefits primarily due to an increase in commissions and higher salaries from an increase in headcount as well as an increase in travel expenses. Partially offsetting these increases was a gain of $7.4 million for infringement damages from the Minerva litigation, which was recorded as a credit to general and administrative expenses, a decrease in intangible asset amortization expense, lower R&D project spend, and lower marketing initiative spend and allocated advertising and charitable donations. Skeletal Health Skeletal Health revenu es increased i n fiscal 2023 compared to fiscal 2022 primarily due to the increase in product revenues as discussed above and to a lesser extent the increase in service contract revenue from the extra week in the current fiscal year. Operating income increased in fiscal 2023 compared to fiscal 2022 primarily due to an increase in gross profit and a decrease in operating expenses. Gross margin was 32.2% in the current year compared to 28.2% in the prior year. The increase in gross margin was primarily due to higher sales volumes of our Horizon DXA, Insight FD systems, and system upgrades and an increase in the average selling prices of our Horizon DXA systems, partially offset by increased costs from supply chain constraints and inflation. Operating expenses decreased in fiscal 2023 compared to fiscal 2022 primarily due to a decrease in marketing initiatives and research and development project spend. Fiscal Year Ended September 24, 2022 Compared to Fiscal Year Ended September 25, 2021 Discussions of year-to-year comparisons between fiscal 2022 and 2021 that are not included in this Form 10-K can be found in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 24, 2022. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES At September 30, 2023, we had working capital of $2,977.2 million, and our cash and cash equivalents totaled $2,722.5 million. Our cash and cash equivalents balance increased by $416.2 million during fiscal 2023 principally due to cash generated from operating activities partially offset by cash used in investing and financing activities primarily related to repurchases of our common stock and capital expenditures. In fiscal 2023, our operating activities provided cash of $1,051.2 million, primarily due to net income of $456.0 million, non-cash charges for depreciation and amortization aggregating $323.4 million, intangible asset equipment impairment charges of $223.8 million, stock-based compensation expense of $79.6 million, and a loss on assets held-for-sale related to the SSI ultrasound imaging business of $51.7 million. These adjustments to net income were partially offset by a decrease in net deferred taxes of $109.1 million primarily due to the capitalization of research expenditures under the tax rules and to a lesser extent the amortization and impairments of intangible assets. Cash provided by operations included a net cash inflow of $11.8 million from changes in our operating assets and liabilities. The net cash inflow was primarily driven by a decrease in prepaid expenses and other assets of $23.6 million primarily due to normal amortization related to the Women’s Tennis Association sponsorship and service and software subscriptions, a decrease in prepaid income taxes of $17.4 million primarily due to the timing of tax payments relative to the provision for income taxes, and an increase in deferred revenue of $14.4 million primarily due to billings for annual service contracts under our expanded installed base of digital mammography systems. These cash inflows were partially offset by a decrease in accounts payable of $23.0 million primarily due to timing of payments and a decrease in accrued expenses of $14.2 million primarily due to a decrease in accrued compensation and benefits for annual bonuses and timing of payroll versus the prior year, and a decrease in professional services partially offset by an increase of value-added tax payments primarily due to timing. In fiscal 2023, our investing activities used cash of $152.1 million primarily due to capital expenditures of $150.2 million, which primarily consisted of the placement of equipment under customer usage agreements and purchase of 45 manufacturing equipment and building improvements primarily related to the build out of our Newark facility for the transfer of our Breast Health capital equipment manufacturing operations, and to a lesser extent the build out of our new innovation center and Biotheranostics CLIA laboratory at our San Diego facility, and $10.0 million for the purchase of an equity investment. These uses of cash were partially offset by a final reimbursement of $20.5 million received from the Department of Defense under a grant to increase production capacity of our two SARS-CoV-2 assays. In fiscal 2023, our financing activities used cash of $483.2 million, primarily due to $474.8 million for repurchases of our common stock, $24.0 million for the payment of employee taxes withheld for the net share settlement of vested restricted stock units, $15.0 million for debt principal payments under our 2021 Credit Agreement and a $7.6 million contingent consideration payment related to the Acessa Health acquisition. Partially offsetting these uses of cash was $43.0 million from our equity plans from the exercise of stock options and issuance of shares under our employee stock purchase plan. Debt We had total recorded debt outstanding of $2.82 billion at September 30, 2023, which was comprised of amounts outstanding under our 2021 Credit Agreement of $1.48 billion (principal of $1.49 billion), 2029 Senior Notes of $938.8 million (principal of $950.0 million), and 2028 Senior Notes of $396.8 million (principal of $400.0 million). 2021 Credit Agreement On September 27, 2021, we refinanced our existing term loan and revolving credit facility with Bank of America, N.A. in its capacity as Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender and L/C Issuer, and certain other lenders from time to time party thereto (the “2018 Credit Agreement”) by entering into Refinancing Amendment (the “2021 Credit Agreement”). Borrowings under the 2021 Credit Agreement are secured by first-priority liens on, and a first priority security interest in, substantially all of our and our Subsidiary Guarantors’ U.S. assets. The credit facilities (the “2021 Credit Facilities”) under the 2021 Credit Agreement consist of: • A $1.5 billion secured term loan (“2021 Term Loan”) with a stated maturity date of September 25, 2026; and • A secured revolving credit facility (the “2021 Revolver”) under which the Borrowers may borrow up to $2.0 billion, subject to certain sublimits, with a stated maturity date of September 25, 2026. As of September 30, 2023, there were no borrowings under the 2021 Revolver. On August 22, 2022, we further amended the 2021 Credit Agreement (the “Third Amendment”) related to the planned phase out of LIBOR by the UK Financial Conduct Authority. Under this amendment, the interest rate applicable to the loans under the 2021 Credit Agreement denominated in U.S. dollars were converted to a variant of the secured overnight financing rate (“SOFR”) plus an applicable spread. Borrowings under the 2021 Credit Agreement, other than Swing Line Loans, bear interest, at our option, at the Base Rate, at the Term SOFR Rate, at the Alternative Currency Daily Rate, or at the Daily SOFR Rate, in each case plus the Applicable Rate. The Applicable Rate in regard to the Base Rate, the Term SOFR Rate, the Alternative Currency Daily Rate, the Alternative Currency Term Rate and the Daily SOFR Rate is subject to change depending on the Total Net Leverage Ratio (as defined in the 2021 Credit Agreement). As of September 30, 2023, the interest rate under the 2021 Term Loan was 6.42% per annum. We are also required to pay a quarterly commitment fee calculated on a daily basis equal to the Applicable Rate as of such day multiplied by the undrawn committed amount available under the Revolver. As of September 30, 2023, this commitment fee was 0.15% per annum for the 2021 Revolver. We are required to make scheduled principal payments under the 2021 Term Loan in increasing amounts ranging from $3.75 million per three-month period commencing with the three-month period ending on December 29, 2022 to $18.75 million per three-month period commencing with the three-month period ending on December 26, 2025. The remaining scheduled balance of $1.335 billion (or such lesser aggregate principal amount of the Term Loans then outstanding) on the 2021 Term Loan and any amounts outstanding under the 2021 Revolver are due at their respective maturities. In addition, subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the 2021 Credit Agreement, we may be required to make certain mandatory prepayments from the net proceeds of specified types of asset sales (subject to certain reinvestment rights), debt issuances (excluding permitted debt) and insurance recoveries (subject to certain reinvestment rights). Certain of the mandatory prepayments are subject to reduction or elimination if certain financial covenants are met. Subject to certain limitations, we may voluntarily prepay any of the 2021 Credit Facilities without premium or penalty. As of September 30, 2023, the outstanding principal balance of the 2021 46 Term Loan was $1.5 billion. On October 27, 2023 (in the first quarter of fiscal 2024), we made a $250.0 million voluntary prepayment on the 2021 Term Loan. The 2021 Credit Agreement contains affirmative and negative covenants customarily applicable to senior secured credit facilities, including covenants restricting our ability subject to negotiated exceptions, to incur additional indebtedness and grant additional liens on our assets, engage in mergers or acquisitions or dispose of assets, enter into sale-leaseback transactions, pay dividends or make other distributions, voluntarily prepay other indebtedness, enter into transactions with affiliated persons, make investments, and change the nature of our business. In addition, the 2021 Credit Agreement requires the Borrowers to maintain certain financial ratios. The 2021 Credit Agreement also contains customary representations and warranties and events of default, including payments defaults, breach of representations and warranties, covenant defaults, cross defaults and an event of default upon a change of control of the company. The 2021 Credit Agreement contains two financial covenants (a total net leverage ratio and an interest coverage ratio) measured as of the last day of each quarter for the previous twelve-month period. As of September 30, 2023, we were in compliance with these covenants. 2028 Senior Notes The total aggregate principal balance of the 2028 Senior Notes is $400.0 million. The 2028 Senior Notes are general senior unsecured obligations and are guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by certain of our domestic subsidiaries. The 2028 Senior Notes mature on February 1, 2028 and bear interest at the rate of 4.625% per year, payable semi-annually on February 1 and August 1 of each year. We have the option to redeem the 2028 Senior Notes on or after: February 1, 2023 through February 1, 2024 at 102.312% of par; February 1, 2024 through February 1, 2025 at 101.541% of par; February 1, 2025 through February 1, 2026 at 100.770% of par; and February 1, 2026 and thereafter at 100% of par. In addition, if there is a change of control coupled with a decline in ratings, as provided in the indenture, we will be required to make an offer to purchase each holder’s 2028 Senior Notes at a price equal to 101% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the repurchase date. 2029 Senior Notes The total aggregate principal balance of the 2029 Senior Notes is $950.0 million. The 2029 Senior Notes are general senior unsecured obligations and are guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by certain domestic subsidiaries. The 2029 Senior Notes mature on February 15, 2029 and bear interest at the rate of 3.250% per year, payable semi-annually on February 15 and August 15 of each year. We have the option to redeem the 2029 Senior Notes on or after: September 28, 2023 through September 27, 2024 at 101.625% of par; September 28, 2024 through September 27, 2025 at 100.813% of par; and September 28, 2025 and thereafter at 100% of par. In addition, if there is a change of control coupled with a decline in ratings, as provided in the indenture, we will be required to make an offer to purchase each holder’s 2029 Senior Notes at a price equal to 101% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the repurchase date. Contingent Consideration Earn-Out Payments In connection with certain of our acquisitions, we have incurred the obligation to make contingent earn-out payments tied to performance criteria, principally revenue growth of the acquired business over a specified period. In addition, contractual provisions relating to these contingent earn-out obligations may result in the risk of litigation relating to the calculation of the amount due or our operation of the acquired business. Such litigation could be expensive and divert management attention and resources. Our obligation to make contingent payments may also result in significant operating expenses. Contingent consideration arrangements are recorded as either additional purchase price or compensation expense if continuing employment is required to receive such payments. Pursuant to ASC 805, Business Combinations , contingent consideration that is deemed to be part of the purchase price is recorded as a liability based on the estimated fair value of the consideration we expect to pay to the former shareholders of the acquired business as of the acquisition date. This liability is re-measured each reporting period with the change in fair value recorded through a separate line item within our Consolidated Statements of Income. Increases or decreases in the fair value of contingent consideration liabilities can result from changes in discount rates, changes in the timing, probabilities and amount of revenue estimates, and accretion of the liability for the passage of time. 47 Our contingent consideration liability is primarily related to our Acessa acquisition. We have an obligation to the former Acessa shareholders to make contingent payments based on a multiple of annual incremental revenue growth over a three-year period ending annually in December. There is no maximum earnout. Pursuant to ASC 805, Business Combinations, the contingent consideration was deemed to be part of the purchase price, and we recorded our estimate of the fair value of the contingent consideration liability utilizing the Monte Carlo simulation based on future revenue projections of the business, comparable companies’ revenue growth rates, implied volatility and applying a risk adjusted discount rate. The first earn-out period was completed in December 2021, and we paid $12.2 million to the former shareholders in the second quarter of fiscal 2022. The second earn-out period was completed in December 2022, resulting in a payment amount of $7.6 million in the second quarter of fiscal 2023. During fiscal 2023, we updated our forecasted revenue and recorded a gain of $14.9 million to record the liability to fair value. The reduction in fair value was primarily due to a decrease in forecasted revenues. As of September 30, 2023 this liability was recorded at its fair value of $0.9 million. Stock Repurchase Program On September 22, 2022, our Board of Directors authorized a new stock repurchase program, with a five-year term, to repurchase up to $1.0 billion of our outstanding common stock, effective as of the close of trading on September 23, 2022. During fiscal 2023, we repurchased 6.8 million shares of our common stock for a total consideration of $501.4 million. As of September 30, 2023, $498.6 million remained authorized for repurchase. Subsequent to September 30, 2023, we repurchased 2.2 million shares of our common stock for a total consideration of $150.0 million. On November 6, 2023, the Board of Directors authorized the Company to repurchase up to $500 million of our outstanding shares pursuant to an accelerated share repurchase (ASR) agreement. On November 15, 2023, we executed the ASR agreement with Goldman Sachs & Co. (“Goldman Sachs”) pursuant to which we agreed to repurchase $500 million of the Company’s common stock. In connection with the launch of the ASR, on November 17, 2023, we paid Goldman Sachs an aggregate of $500 million and received approximately 5.6 million shares of our common stock, representing 80% of the transaction value based on our closing share price on November 14, 2023. The final number of shares to be received under the ASR agreement will be determined upon completion of the transaction and will be based on the total transaction value and the volume-weighted average share price of our common stock during the term of the transaction. Final settlement of the transaction is expected to be completed in the second quarter of fiscal 2024. The timing of any future share repurchases will be based upon our continuing analysis of market, financial, and other factors. Repurchases under the authorized share repurchase program may be made using a variety of methods, which may include, but are not limited to, open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions, accelerated share repurchase agreements, or purchases pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 plan under the Exchange Act. The authorized share repurchase program may be suspended, delayed or discontinued at any time. Future Liquidity Considerations We expect to continue to review and evaluate potential strategic transactions that we believe will complement our current or future business. Subject to the “Risk Factors” set forth in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report and the general disclaimers set forth in our Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements at the outset of this Annual Report, we believe that our cash and cash equivalents, cash flows from operations, and the cash available under our 2021 Revolver will provide us with sufficient funds in order to fund our expected normal operations and debt payments over the next twelve months. Our longer-term liquidity is contingent upon future operating performance. We may also require additional capital in the future to fund capital expenditures, repayment of debt, acquisitions, strategic transactions or other investments. As described above, we have significant indebtedness outstanding under our 2021 Credit Agreement, 2028 Senior Notes, and 2029 Senior Notes. These capital requirements could be substantial. Our operating performance may also be affected by matters discussed under the above-referenced Risk Factors set forth elsewhere in this report. These risks, trends and uncertainties may also adversely affect our long-term liquidity. Legal Contingencies We are currently involved in certain legal proceedings and claims. In connection with these legal proceedings and claims, management periodically reviews estimates of potential costs to be incurred by us in connection with the adjudication or settlement, if any, of these proceedings. These estimates are developed, as applicable in consultation with outside counsel, and are based on an analysis of potential litigation outcomes and settlement strategies. In accordance with ASC 450, Contingencies , loss contingencies are accrued if, in the opinion of management, an adverse outcome is probable and such financial outcome can be reasonably estimated. It is possible that future results for any particular quarter or annual period may be materially affected by changes in our assumptions or the effectiveness of our strategies relating to these proceedings. Guarantees and Other Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 48 We do not have guarantees or other off-balance sheet financing arrangements, including variable interest entities, of a magnitude that we believe could have a material impact on our financial condition or liquidity. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition for multiple element arrangements, allowance for doubtful accounts, reserves for excess and obsolete inventories, valuations, purchase price allocations and contingent consideration related to business combinations, expected future cash flows including growth rates, discount rates, terminal values and other assumptions used to evaluate the recoverability of long-lived assets and goodwill, estimated fair values of intangible assets and goodwill, amortization methods and periods, warranty reserves, certain accrued expenses, restructuring and other related charges, stock-based compensation, contingent liabilities, tax reserves and recoverability of our net deferred tax assets and related valuation allowances. We base our estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ from these estimates if past experience or other assumptions do not turn out to be substantially accurate. Any differences may have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. The following is a discussion of what we believe to be the more significant critical accounting policies and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. Inventory Our inventories include material, labor and overhead, and are stated at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out) or net realizable value. As a developer and manufacturer of high technology medical equipment, diagnostic test kits, and disposable surgical devices, we may be exposed to a number of economic and industry factors that could result in portions of our inventory becoming either obsolete or in excess of anticipated usage. Our policy is to establish inventory reserves when conditions exist that suggest that our inventory may be in excess of anticipated demand or is obsolete based upon our assumptions about future demand for our products and market conditions. Although considerable effort is made to ensure the accuracy of our forecasts of future product demand, any significant unanticipated changes in demand or expected usage could have a significant negative impact on the value of our inventory and our operating results. Business Combinations We record tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations under the purchase method of accounting. Amounts paid for each acquisition are allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their fair values at the dates of acquisition. Contingent consideration, which is not deemed to be linked to continuing employment, is recorded at fair value measured on the date of acquisition using an appropriate valuation model, such as the Monte Carlo simulation model. The value recorded is based on estimates of future financial projections under various potential scenarios, in which the model runs many simulations based on comparable companies' growth rates and their implied volatility. These cash flow projections are discounted with a risk adjusted rate. Each quarter until such contingent amounts are earned, the fair value of the liability is remeasured at each reporting period and adjusted as a component of operating expenses based on changes to the underlying assumptions. The estimates used to determine the fair value of the contingent consideration liability are subject to significant judgment, specifically projected revenues, and given the inherent uncertainties in making these estimates, actual results are likely to differ from the amounts originally recorded and could be materially different. The fair value of identifiable intangible assets is based on detailed valuations that use information and assumptions provided by management, which consider management’s best estimate of inputs and assumptions that a market participant would use. We allocate any excess purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed to goodwill. We generally use the income approach in which cash flow projections on an after-tax basis are discounted using a risk adjusted rate to determine the estimated fair value of certain identifiable intangible assets including developed technology, in-process research and development projects, customer relationships, and trade names. The significant assumptions used to estimate the fair value of intangible assets include discount rates and certain assumptions that form the basis of the forecasted results, specifically revenue growth rates. These significant assumptions are forward looking and could be affected by future economic and market conditions. With respect to property, plant and equipment, we estimate the fair value of these assets using a combination of the cost and market approaches, depending on the component. Generally, we apply the cost or income approach as the primary methods 49 in estimating the fair value of land and buildings as the market approach is less reliable based on potential significant differences between the property being valued and the potentially comparable sales of similar properties. Goodwill We test goodwill at the reporting unit level for impairment on an annual basis and between annual tests if events and circumstances indicate it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. Events that could indicate impairment and trigger an interim impairment assessment include, but are not limited to, current economic and market conditions, including a decline in market capitalization, a significant adverse change in legal factors, business climate, operational performance of the business or key personnel, and an adverse action or assessment by a regulator. Our annual impairment test date is the first day of our fiscal fourth quarter. In performing the test, we either use the qualitative assessment permitted by ASC 350, Intangibles — Goodwill and Other, or the single step quantitative approach prescribed under ASC 350 including amendments under ASU 2017-04. Under the qualitative approach we consider a number of factors, including the amount by which the previous quantitative test's fair value exceeded the carrying value of the reporting units, the forecasts in our then-current strategic plan compared to the forecasts in the previous quantitative test, an evaluation of discount rates, long-term growth rates including the terminal year rate, if tax rates would have significantly changed, an evaluation of current economic factors for both the worldwide economy and specifically the medical device industry, and any significant changes in customer and supplier relationships. We weigh these factors to determine if it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying value. If after performing a qualitative assessment, indicators are present, or we identify factors that cause us to believe it is appropriate to perform a more precise calculation of fair value, we would move beyond the qualitative assessment and perform a quantitative impairment test. Under the quantitative impairment test, we perform a comparison of the reporting unit’s carrying value to its fair value. We consider a number of factors to determine the fair value of a reporting unit, including an independent valuation to conduct this test. The valuation is based upon expected future discounted operating cash flows of the reporting unit as well as analysis of recent sales and ratio comparisons of similar companies. We base the discount rate on the weighted average cost of capital, or WACC, of market participants. If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, we apply the single step approach under ASU 2017-04. As a result of this simplified approach the goodwill impairment is calculated as the amount by which the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value to the extent of the goodwill balance. We conducted our fiscal 2023 annual impairment test on the first day of the fourth quarter and utilized the quantitative approach. We used discounted cash flows, or DCF, and market approaches to estimate the fair value of our reporting units as of July 2, 2023 and ultimately used the fair value determined by the DCF in making our impairment test conclusions. We believe we used reasonable estimates and assumptions about future revenue, cost projections, cash flows, market multiples and discount rates as of the measurement date. As a result of completing this analysis, all of our reporting units had fair values exceeding their carrying values. At September 30, 2023, we believe that our reporting units, with goodwill aggregating $3.3 billion, were not at risk of failing the goodwill impairment test based on our current forecasts and qualitative assessment. Since the fair value of our reporting units was determined by use of the DCF, and the key assumptions that drive the fair value in this model are the WACC, terminal values, growth rates, and the amount and timing of expected future cash flows, significant judgment is applied in determining fair value. If the current economic environment were to deteriorate, this would likely result in a higher WACC because market participants would require a higher rate of return. In the DCF as the WACC increases, the fair value decreases. The other significant factor in the DCF is our projected financial information (i.e., amount and timing of expected future cash flows and growth rates) and if these assumptions were to be adversely impacted, this could result in a reduction of the fair value of a reporting unit. 50 Intangible Assets Intangible assets are initially recorded at fair value and stated net of accumulated amortization and impairments. We amortize intangible assets that have finite lives using either the straight-line method, or if reliably determinable, based on the pattern in which the economic benefit of the asset is expected to be utilized. We evaluate the recoverability of our definite lived intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances or business conditions indicate that the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable based on expectations of future undiscounted cash flows for each asset group. If the carrying value of an asset or asset group exceeds its undiscounted cash flows, we estimate the fair value of the assets, generally utilizing a discounted cash flow analysis based on the present value of estimated future cash flows to be generated by the assets using a risk-adjusted discount rate. To estimate the fair value of the assets, the Company uses market participant assumptions pursuant to ASC 820, Fair Value Measurements . Indefinite lived intangible assets, such as IPR&D assets, are initially recorded at fair value and are required to be tested for impairment annually, or more frequently if indicators of impairment are present. The Company’s annual impairment test date is as of the first day of its fourth quarter. We estimate the fair value of IPR&D assets utilizing a discounted cash flow analysis and key assumptions are revenue growth rates, timing of completion of the project, costs to complete the project and discount rates. These estimates require significant judgment and adverse changes in assumptions could result in a lower fair value. Revenue Recognition We generate revenue from the sale of our products, primarily medical imaging systems and diagnostic and surgical disposable products, and related services, which are primarily support and maintenance services on our medical imaging systems. See Note 3 for further discussion of revenue recognition. We consider revenue to be earned when all of the following criteria are met: we have a contract with a customer that creates enforceable rights and obligations; promised products or services are identified; the transaction price, or the amount that we expect to receive, including an estimate of uncertain amounts subject to a constraint to ensure revenue is not recognized in an amount that would result in a significant reversal upon resolution of the uncertainty, is determinable; and we have transferred control of the promised items to the customer. A performance obligation is a promise in a contract to transfer a distinct good or service to the customer and is the unit of account in the contract. The transaction price for the contract is measured as the amount of consideration we expect to receive in exchange for the goods and services expected to be transferred. A contract's transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation and recognized as revenue when, or as, control of the distinct good or service is transferred. Transfer of control for our products is generally at shipment or delivery, depending on contractual terms, but occurs when title and risk of loss transfers to the customer which represents the point in time when the customer obtains the use of and substantially all of the remaining benefit of the product. As such, the performance obligation related to product sales is satisfied at a point in time. Revenue from support and maintenance contracts and extended warranties are recognized over time based on the contract term, which represents a faithful depiction of the transfer of goods and services given the stand-ready nature of the performance obligations. Service revenue related to professional services for installation, training and repairs is recognized as the services are performed based on the specific nature of the service. We recognize receivables when we have an unconditional right to payment, which represents the amount we expect to collect in a transaction and is most often equal to the transaction price in the contract. Payment terms are typically 30 days in the U.S. but may be longer in international markets. We treat shipping and handling costs performed after a customer obtains control of the good as a fulfillment cost and record these costs within costs of product revenue when the corresponding revenue is recognized. Generally the contracts for capital equipment include multiple performance obligations. For contracts with multiple performance obligations, we are required to allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation using our best estimate of the standalone selling price of each distinct good or service in the contract. We determine the best estimate of standalone selling price using average selling prices over 3- to 12-month periods of data depending on the products or nature of the services coupled with current market considerations. If the product or service does not have a history of sales or if sales volume is not sufficient, we rely on prices set by our pricing committees or applicable marketing department adjusted for expected discounts. We exercise judgement in estimating variable consideration, which includes volume discounts, sales rebates, product returns and other adjustments. These amounts are recorded as a reduction to revenue and classified as a current liability. We base our estimates for volume discounts and sales rebates on historical information to the extent it is reasonable to be used as a predictive tool of expected future rebates. To the extent the transaction price includes variable consideration, we apply judgment in constraining the estimated variable consideration due to factors that may cause reversal of revenue recognized. We evaluate constraints based on our historical and projected experience with similar customer contracts. Our contracts for the sale 51 of capital equipment and related components, and assays and tests typically do not provide the right to return product, however, our contracts for the sale of our interventional breast and surgical handpieces provide for a right of return for a limited period of time. In general, estimates of variable consideration and constraints are not material to our financial statements. We also place instruments (or equipment) at customer sites but retain title to the instrument (for example, the ThinPrep Processor, ThinPrep Imaging System, and the Panther system). The customer has the right to use the instrument for a period of time, and then we recover the cost of providing the instrument through the sales of disposables, namely tests and assays in Diagnostics and handpieces in GYN Surgical. These types of agreements include an embedded operating lease for the right to use an instrument and no instrument revenue is recognized at the time of instrument delivery. We recognize a portion of the revenue allocated to the embedded lease concurrent with the sale of disposables over the term of the agreement. Income Taxes We use the asset and liability method for accounting for income taxes in accordance with ASC 740, Income Taxes . Under this method, we recognize deferred income tax assets and liabilities for the future tax consequences of differences between the financial statement carrying amount of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases, and also for operating loss and tax credit carryforwards at each reporting period. We measure deferred tax assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates and laws applicable to the period and jurisdiction in which we expect the differences to affect taxable income. We evaluate both the positive and negative evidence that affects the realizability of net deferred tax assets and assess the need for a valuation allowance. The future benefit to be derived from our deferred tax assets is dependent upon our ability to generate sufficient future taxable income in each jurisdiction of the right type to realize the assets. We establish a valuation allowance when necessary to reduce deferred tax assets to the amounts expected to be realized. To the extent we establish or release a valuation allowance, a tax charge or benefit will be recorded as a component of the income tax provision on the statement of operations in the reporting period that such determination is made. We have recognized $36.4 million in net deferred tax assets at September 30, 2023 and $74.6 million in net deferred tax liabilities at September 24, 2022. The change was primarily due to recording a deferred tax asset on capitalized research and development costs and intangible asset impairments in fiscal 2023. The tax liabilities primarily relate to deferred taxes associated with our acquisitions. The tax assets primarily relate to net operating and capital loss carryforwards, capitalized research and development costs, accruals and reserves, and stock-based compensation. Accounting for income taxes requires a two-step approach to recognize and measure uncertain tax positions. The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if, based on the technical merits, it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained upon audit, including resolutions of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. We evaluate these uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis. This evaluation is based on factors including, but not limited to, changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, effectively settled issues under audit and new audit activity. Any change in these factors could result in the recognition of a tax benefit or an additional charge to the tax provision. As of September 30, 2023, we had $256.5 million in gross unrecognized tax benefits excluding interest, of which $240.5 million, if recognized, would reduce our effective tax rate. As of September 24, 2022, we had $247.6 million in gross unrecognized tax benefits excluding interest, of which $231.6 million, if recognized, would have reduced our effective tax rate. In the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. Judgment is required in determining our worldwide income tax provision. In our opinion, we have made adequate provisions for income taxes for all years subject to audit. While we consider our estimates reasonable, no assurance can be given that the final tax outcome will not be different than amounts reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. If our assumptions are incorrect, the differences could have a material impact on our income tax provision and operating results in the period in which such determination is made.