********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

In evaluating our business, the risks described below, as well as other information contained in this Annual Report and in our other filings with the SEC should be considered carefully. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also adversely affect our business. The occurrence of any of these events or circumstances could individually or in the aggregate have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flow or results of operations. This report contains forward-looking statements; please refer to the cautionary statements made under the heading "Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" for more information on the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements. THE COVID-19 GLOBAL PANDEMIC The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic and associated economic disruptions could have a material adverse impact on our business and the demand for many of our products will depend on future developments that are highly uncertain and difficult to predict. The COVID-19 pandemic has created significant volatility, uncertainty and economic disruption in the markets we sell our products into and operate in, primarily the U.S., Europe, and Asia-Pacific and negatively impacted business and healthcare activity globally. We believe that the COVID-19 pandemic's impact on our operating results, cash flows and financial condition remains uncertain and will be primarily driven by the severity and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic (including the extent of future surges, variants and the efficacy of vaccination); the COVID-19 pandemic's impact on the U.S. and international healthcare systems, the U.S. economy and worldwide economy; the timing, scope and effectiveness of U.S. and international governmental responses to the COVID-19 pandemic and associated economic disruptions; and the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the health, well-being and productivity of our employees. As healthcare systems continue to respond to the demands of managing COVID-19 and the resulting economic uncertainties, governments around the world have imposed measures designed to reduce the transmission of COVID-19 and individuals continue to respond to the fear of contracting COVID-19. In particular, elective procedures and exams were delayed or cancelled, there has been a significant reduction in physician office visits, and hospitals postponed or canceled capital purchases as well as limited or eliminated services. While 18 elective procedures and exams and capital purchases have increased from initially depressed levels, the reduction in elective procedures, exams and capital purchases has had, and we believe may continue to have, a negative impact on the sales of most of our products (other than our COVID-19 assays and related systems and ancillaries) which has adversely affected our operating results, cash flows and financial condition. Additionally, governments and other third-party payors around the world facing tightening budgets could move to further reduce the reimbursement rates or the scope of coverage offered, which could further adversely affect sales of our products. We may not realize anticipated revenue from our COVID-19 diagnostic assays . We have developed assays to detect COVID-19. While we have seen significant demand for our COVID-19 assays, other companies are working to produce or have produced tests for COVID-19 which may lead to the diversion of customers away from us and toward other companies. Moreover, considerable uncertainty remains as to the demand for ongoing COVID-19 testing, and thus, for our COVID-19 assays. There is no guarantee that current or anticipated demand will continue, or if demand does continue or increases, that we will be able to produce in quantities to meet the demand. A significant decline in demand for our COVID-19 assays without a corresponding increase in our other businesses could have a material, adverse effect on our results of operations, cash flow and financial position. The COVID-19 pandemic and associated economic disruptions have had and may continue to have a material adverse effect on manufacturing, distribution and supply chain. The COVID-19 pandemic and associated economic disruptions have had an adverse impact on our manufacturing capacity, supply chains and distribution systems, including as a result of impacts associated with preventive and precautionary measures that we, other businesses and governments are taking. A number of our suppliers and manufacturers have been adversely affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. Delays or disruptions experienced by our suppliers and manufacturers caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and associated economic disruptions may prevent us from obtaining raw materials, components and subassemblies for our products in a timely manner. In addition, government and customer vaccine mandates may lead to employee attrition for us and our suppliers. Any resulting reduction or interruption in our manufacturing and distribution processes could result in a reduction in our revenues and harm our competitive position and reputation. GLOBAL CHALLENGES Continuing worldwide political and social uncertainty, as well as tariffs and social tensions, may adversely affect our business and prospects, both domestically and internationally. Political and social uncertainty and divisions are rife in the U.S. and throughout the world, impairing political, trade and economic relations worldwide. This impacts how we are able to do business and expand our global footprint. Changes in policy in the U.S. and other countries regarding international trade, including import and export regulation and international trade agreements, could negatively impact our business. In recent years, the U.S. has imposed tariffs on goods imported from China and certain other countries, which has resulted in retaliatory tariffs by China and other countries. Changes or uncertainty in tariffs or further retaliatory trade measures taken by China or other countries in response, could affect the demand for our products and services, impact the competitive position of our products, prevent us from being able to sell products in certain countries or otherwise adversely impact our results of operations. The implementation of more restrictive trade policies, such as more detailed inspections, higher tariffs or new barriers to entry, could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our international operations and foreign acquisitions expose us to additional operational challenges that we might not otherwise face. International expansion is a key component of our growth strategy. In fiscal 2021, 30.7% of our revenue came from outside of the U.S. As we grow internationally, our future and existing international operations may subject us to a number of additional risks and expenses, any of which could harm our operating results. These risks and expenses include: • political and economic changes and disruptions, export/import controls and tariff regulations; • difficulties in developing staffing and simultaneously managing operations in multiple locations as a result of, among other things, distance, language and cultural differences; • governmental currency controls; • multiple, conflicting and changing government laws and regulations (including, among other things, antitrust and tax requirements); • protectionist laws and business practices that favor local companies; • difficulties in the collection of trade accounts receivable; • difficulties and expenses related to implementing internal controls over financial reporting and disclosure controls and procedures; 19 • expenses associated with customizing products for clients in foreign countries; • possible adverse tax consequences; • the inability to obtain and maintain required regulatory approvals or favorable third-party reimbursement; • operation in parts of the world where strict compliance with anti-bribery laws may conflict with local customs and practices; • the inability to effectively obtain, maintain, protect or enforce intellectual property rights, reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries, and the inability to otherwise protect against clone or “knock off” products; • the lack of ability to enforce non-compete agreements with former owners of acquired businesses competing with us in China and other foreign countries; and • lower margins on a number of our products sold outside of the U.S. BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT AND COMPETITION Our long-term success will depend upon our ability to integrate acquired businesses and execute on business development activities. During fiscal 2021, we made a number of tactical acquisitions which complemented our existing businesses. Any inability to successfully integrate new businesses, decreases in customer loyalty or product orders, failure to retain or develop the acquired workforce, failure to realize anticipated economic, operational and other benefits and synergies in a timely manner, failure to establish and maintain appropriate controls or unknown or contingent liabilities could adversely affect our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of any new product or acquisition. The integration of an acquired business, whether or not successful, requires significant efforts which may result in additional expenses and divert the attention of our management and technical personnel from other projects. Acquisitions, in particular, are inherently risky, and we cannot guarantee that any past or future transaction will be successful. As part of our long-term strategy, we are also engaged in business development activities including evaluating future acquisitions, joint development opportunities, technology licensing arrangements and other opportunities to further expand our presence in or diversify into priority growth areas by accessing new products and technologies. We may not be able to identify appropriate business development activities or acquisition candidates, consummate transactions or obtain agreements with favorable terms, if at all. We may also be subject to increasing regulatory scrutiny from competition and antitrust authorities in connection with acquisitions. If we are successful in pursuing future acquisitions, we may be required to expend significant funds, incur additional debt or other obligations, or issue additional securities, which may negatively affect our operating results and financial condition. If we spend significant funds or incur additional debt or obligations, our ability to obtain financing for working capital or other purposes could be adversely affected, and we may be more vulnerable to economic downturns and competitive pressures. If we fail to identify, acquire and integrate complementary businesses and products, our business, results of operations and/or financial condition could be adversely affected. We face intense competition from other companies and may not be able to compete successfully. The markets in which we sell our products are intensely competitive, subject to rapid technological change and may be significantly affected by new product introductions and other market activities of industry participants, and these competitive pressures may reduce the demand and prices for our products. Other companies may develop products that are superior to and/or less expensive than our products. Improvements in existing competitive products or the introduction of new competitive products may reduce our ability to compete for sales, particularly if those competitive products demonstrate better safety or effectiveness, clinical results, ease of use or lower costs. Some companies may have significant competitive advantages over us, which may make them more attractive to hospitals, clinics, radiology clients, group purchasing organizations, laboratories, and physicians, including: • greater brand recognition; • larger or more established distribution networks and customer bases; • a broader product portfolio, resulting in the ability to offer rebates or bundle products to offer discounts or incentives to gain a competitive advantage; • higher levels of automation and greater installed bases of such equipment; • more extensive research, development, sales, marketing, and manufacturing capabilities and greater financial resources; and • greater technical resources positioning them to continue to improve their technology in order to compete in an evolving industry. Challenges in the development of our products could materially impact our long-term success. 20 Our growth depends in large part on our ability to identify and develop new products or new indications for or enhancements of existing products. The development of new products and enhancement of existing products requires significant investment in research and development, clinical trials and regulatory approvals. The results of our product development efforts may be affected by a number of factors, including our ability to anticipate customer needs, innovate and develop new products, complete clinical trials, obtain regulatory clearances and approvals and reimbursement in the U.S. and abroad, manufacture products in a cost-effective manner, obtain, maintain, protect and enforce appropriate intellectual property protection for our products, gain and maintain market approval of our products and access capital. If we are not able to successfully enhance existing products or develop new products, our products may be rendered obsolete or uncompetitive by changing technology or new industry standards. We cannot assure that any products now in development or that we may seek to develop in the future will achieve technological feasibility, obtain regulatory approval or gain market acceptance, and we may be unable to recover all or a meaningful part of our investment in such products and technologies. The markets for our newly developed products and newly introduced enhancements to our existing products may not develop as expected. The successful commercialization of our newly developed products and newly introduced enhancements to our existing products are subject to numerous risks, both known and unknown, including: • uncertainty of the development of a market for such product; • trends relating to, or the introduction or existence of, competing products or technologies that may be more effective, safer or easier to use than our products or technologies; • the perception of our products as compared to other products; • recommendation and support for the use of our products by influential customers, such as highly regarded hospitals, physicians and treatment centers; • the availability and extent of data demonstrating the clinical efficacy of our products or treatments; • competition, including the presence of competing products sold by companies with longer operating histories, more recognizable names and more established distribution networks; and • other technological developments. Often, the development of a significant market for a product will depend upon the establishment of a reimbursement code or an advantageous reimbursement level for use of the product. Moreover, even if addressed, such reimbursement codes or levels frequently are not established until after a product is developed and commercially introduced, which can delay the successful commercialization of a product. If we are unable to successfully commercialize and create a significant market for our newly developed products and newly introduced enhancements to our existing products our business and prospects could be harmed. If we cannot maintain our current corporate collaborations and enter into new corporate collaborations, our product development could be delayed and our revenue could be adversely impacted. We have relied and/or expect to rely on corporate collaborators for funding development, marketing, distribution, and the commercialization of certain products. If any of our corporate collaborators were to breach, terminate, fail to renew our agreements or otherwise fail to properly conduct its obligations in a timely manner, the development or commercialization and subsequent marketing of the products contemplated by the collaboration could be delayed or terminated. Further, we would be required to devote additional resources to product development or marketing, to terminate some development programs or to seek alternative corporate collaborations with certain partners or companies that could make it more difficult for us to enter into advantageous business transactions or relationships with others. Any of the foregoing risks could harm our business and prospects. BUSINESS CONTINUITY AND RELIANCE ON THIRD PARTIES Supply Chain and Manufacturing Our reliance on one third-party manufacturer for certain of our product lines and a limited number of suppliers for some key raw materials, components and subassemblies for our products exposes us to increased risks associated with production delays, delivery schedules, manufacturing capability, quality control, quality assurance and costs. We have sole source third-party manufacturers for each of our Panther and Tigris molecular diagnostics instruments and for our Skeletal Health products. Similarly, we rely on one or a limited number of suppliers for some key components or subassemblies for our products due to cost, quality, expertise or other considerations. We have no firm long-term volume commitments with certain of our sole source suppliers, including the manufacturers of our Panther or Tigris instruments. 21 Similarly, we rely on one or a limited number of suppliers for some key raw materials for our products due to cost, quality, expertise or other considerations, and some of these suppliers are competitors. For example, F. Hoffmann-LaRoche Ltd, a direct competitor of our Diagnostics business, is the parent company of Roche, our current supplier of certain key raw materials for certain of our amplified NAT diagnostic assays. GE Healthcare Bio-Sciences Corp., an affiliate of GE, supplies us with the membranes used in connection with our ThinPrep product line. GE is a direct competitor with our Breast Health and Skeletal Health businesses. Moreover, we use certain components in our products, including semiconductor chips, that have been the subject of recent global supply chain shortages and disruptions. If any of our sole source manufacturers or suppliers, or other third-party manufacturers or suppliers, experiences delays, disruptions, capacity constraints or quality control problems in its development or manufacturing operations or becomes insolvent or otherwise fails to supply us with goods in sufficient quantities, including as a result of disruptions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic (as described above) or otherwise, then shipments to our customers could be delayed, which would decrease our revenues and harm our competitive position and reputation. Moreover, the failure of a supplier to provide sufficient quantities, acceptable quality and timely delivery of goods at an acceptable price, or an interruption in the delivery of goods from such a supplier could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Obtaining alternative sources of supply of products, components, subassemblies or raw materials could involve significant delays and other costs and regulatory challenges and may not be available to us on reasonable terms, if at all. We may in the future need to find new contract manufacturers or suppliers to replace existing manufacturers or suppliers, increase our volumes or reduce our costs. We may not be able to find contract manufacturers or suppliers that meet our needs, including regulatory requirements, and even if we do, the process of qualifying such alternative manufacturers and suppliers is often expensive and time consuming. As a result, we may lose revenues and our customer relationships may suffer. Interruptions, delays, shutdowns or damage at our manufacturing or laboratory facilities could harm our business. In most cases, the manufacturing of each of our products is concentrated in one or a few locations. In addition, we rely on a single laboratory facility to process each of our Biotheranostics gene expression tests for breast cancer. An interruption in manufacturing or testing capabilities at any of these facilities, as a result of equipment failure, transportation interruptions, disruptions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, other pandemics or other reasons, could reduce, delay or prevent the production of our products. Our facilities and those of our contract manufacturers or suppliers are subject to the risk of catastrophic loss due to unanticipated events, such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods or weather conditions. Our facilities may experience plant shutdowns, strikes or other labor disruptions, or periods of reduced production as a result of equipment failures, loss of power, gray outs, delays in deliveries or extensive damage, which could harm our business and prospects. Some of our manufacturing operations are located outside the U.S., including in Costa Rica and the United Kingdom. Those manufacturing operations are also subject to additional challenges and risks associated with international operations described herein. Customer Concentration and Distributors Our Diagnostics segment depends on a small number of customers for a significant portion of its product sales, and the loss of any of these customers or any cancellation or delay of a large purchase by any of these customers could significantly reduce revenues in our Diagnostics segment. Although we do not currently have any customers that represent more than 10% of our consolidated revenues, or more than 10% of a business segment's revenue in fiscal 2021, historically a material portion of product sales in our Diagnostics segment came from (and we anticipate will continue to come from) a limited number of customers, two of which accounted for 12.5% and 10.9%, respectively, of our Diagnostics segment revenue in fiscal 2020. The loss of any of these key customers, or a significant reduction in sales volume or pricing to these customers, could significantly reduce our Diagnostics segment revenues or profitability. We utilize distributors for a portion of our sales, the loss of which could harm our revenues in the territory serviced by these distributors. We rely on strategic relationships with a number of key distributors for sales and service of our products. If any of our strategic relationships terminate without replacement or if our strategic partners fail to perform their contractual obligations, our revenues and/or ability to service our products in the territories serviced by these distributors could be adversely affected. We do not control our distributors, and these parties may not be successful in marketing our products. These parties may fail to commit the necessary resources to market and sell our products to the level of our expectations. If we elect to distribute new products directly, we will have to invest in additional sales and marketing resources, including additional field sales personnel, which would significantly increase future selling, general and administrative expenses. If we fail to successfully market our products, our product sales will decrease. We may also be exposed to risks as a result of transitioning a territory from a distributor sales model to a direct sales model, such as difficulties maintaining relationships with specific customers, hiring appropriately trained personnel or ensuring compliance with local product 22 registration requirements, any of which could result in lower revenues than previously received from the distributor in that territory. TALENT AND EMPLOYEE RETENTION Our success depends on our ability to attract, motivate and retain key personnel and plan for future executive transitions. The loss of any of our key personnel, particularly executive management or key research and development personnel, could harm our business and prospects and could impede the achievement of our research and development, operational or strategic objectives. We also continue to face the challenges of maintaining employee well-being, recognizing that the additional financial, family and health burdens that many employees may be experiencing due to the COVID-19 pandemic and related economic uncertainties may adversely impact job performance and employee retention. Government and customer vaccine mandates that apply to us may also lead to employee attrition, challenges securing future labor needs, inefficiencies connected to employee turnover and costs associated with implementation and on-going compliance, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Additionally, in our industry, there is substantial competition for key personnel in the regions in which we operate. We face intense competition for employees, particularly as employees are increasingly able to work remotely. Also, facilitating seamless leadership transitions for key positions is a critical factor in sustaining the success of our organization. If our succession planning efforts are not effective, it could adversely impact our business. We continue to assess the key personnel that we believe are essential to our long-term success. Future organizational changes could also cause our employee attrition rate to increase. If we fail to effectively manage any organizational and/or strategic changes, our financial condition, results of operations, and reputation, as well as our ability to successfully attract, motivate and retain key employees, could be harmed. CYBERSECURITY AND DATA PRIVACY Increased cybersecurity requirements, vulnerabilities, threats and more sophisticated and targeted computer crime could pose a risk to our systems, networks, products, solutions, services and data. Increased global cybersecurity vulnerabilities, threats, computer viruses, ransomware and phishing attacks and more sophisticated and targeted cyber-related attacks, as well as cybersecurity failures resulting from human error and technological errors, pose a risk to the security of Hologic and its customers, business partners' and suppliers' products, systems and networks and the confidentiality, availability and integrity of data on these products, systems and networks. As the perpetrators of such attacks become more capable, as cybercrime becomes commoditized, and as critical infrastructure is increasingly becoming digitized, the risks in this area continue to grow. While we attempt to mitigate these risks by employing a number of measures, including employee training, monitoring and testing, and maintenance of protective systems and contingency plans, we remain potentially vulnerable to additional known or unknown threats, and we cannot assure that the impact from such threats will not be material. In addition to existing risks, the adoption of new technologies and acquisitions of new businesses may also increase our exposure to cybersecurity breaches and failures. We also have access to sensitive, confidential or personal data or information that is subject to privacy and security laws, regulations or customer-imposed controls. Despite our implementation of controls to protect our systems and sensitive, confidential or personal data or information, we may be vulnerable to material security breaches, theft, misplaced, lost or corrupted data, employee errors and/or malfeasance (including misappropriation by departing employees) that could potentially lead to the compromising of sensitive, confidential or personal data or information, improper use of our systems, software solutions or networks, unauthorized access, use, disclosure, modification or destruction of information, defective products, production downtimes and operational disruptions. In addition, a cyber-related attack could result in other negative consequences, including damage to our reputation or competitiveness, remediation or increased protection costs, litigation or regulatory action. Although we have experienced occasional actual or attempted breaches of our computer systems, to date we do not believe any of these breaches has had a material effect on our business, operations or reputation. Failure to comply with laws relating to the confidentiality of sensitive personal information or standards related to the transmission of electronic health data, may require us to make significant changes to our products, or incur penalties or other liabilities. State, federal and foreign laws, such as the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, regulate the confidentiality of sensitive personal information and the circumstances under which such information may be released. These measures may govern the disclosure and use of personal and patient medical record information and may require users of such information to implement specified security measures, and to notify individuals in the event of privacy and security breaches. Evolving laws and regulations in this area could restrict the ability of our customers to obtain, use or disseminate patient information, or could require us to incur significant additional costs to re-design our products in a timely manner, either of which could have an adverse impact on our results of operations. Other health information standards, such as regulations under HIPAA, establish standards regarding electronic health data transmissions and transaction code set rules for 23 specified electronic transactions, for example transactions involving submission of claims to third-party payors. These standards also continue to evolve and are often unclear and difficult to apply. Outside the U.S., we are impacted by privacy and data security requirements at the international, national and regional level, and on an industry specific basis. More privacy and security laws and regulations are being adopted, and more are being enforced, with potential for significant financial penalties. In the EU, increasingly stringent data protection and privacy rules have been enacted. The EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) applies uniformly across the EU and includes, among other things, a requirement for prompt notice of data breaches to data subjects and supervisory authorities in certain circumstances. The GDPR also requires companies processing personal data of individuals residing in the EU to comply with EU privacy and data protection rules. Failure to maintain the confidentiality of sensitive personal information in accordance with the applicable regulatory requirements, or to abide by electronic health data transmission standards, could expose us to breach of contract claims, fines and penalties, costs for remediation and harm to our reputation. THIRD-PARTY REIMBURSEMENT AND GUIDELINES Healthcare cost containment legislation and the failure of third-party payors to provide appropriate levels of coverage and reimbursement for the use of products and treatments facilitated by our products could harm our business and prospects. Sales and market acceptance of our diagnostics, breast and skeletal health and surgical products and the treatments facilitated by these products are dependent upon the coverage decisions and reimbursement policies established by government healthcare programs and private health insurers. These policies affect which products customers purchase and the prices they are willing to pay. Reimbursement varies by country and can significantly impact the acceptance of new products and technologies. Even if we develop a promising new product, we may find limited demand for the product unless appropriate reimbursement approval is obtained from private and governmental third-party payors. Further legislative or administrative reforms to the reimbursement systems in the U.S. and other countries in a manner that significantly reduces reimbursement for procedures using our diagnostics, breast and skeletal health and surgical products or denies coverage for those procedures facilitated by our products, including price regulation, competitive bidding and tendering, coverage and payment policies, comparative effectiveness of therapies, technology assessments and managed-care arrangements, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Guidelines, recommendations and studies published by various organizations may reduce the use of our products. Professional societies, government agencies, practice management groups, private health/science foundations, and organizations involved in healthcare issues may publish guidelines, recommendations or studies to the healthcare and patient communities. Organizations like these have in the past made recommendations about our products and those of our competitors. If followed by healthcare providers and insurers, such publications could result in decreased use of our products. For example, in November 2012, the American Congress of Obstetrics and Gynecologists, known as the ACOG, released updates in which it recommended less frequent cervical cancer screening similar to guidelines released in March 2012 by the U.S. Preventative Services Task Force, or the USPSTF, and the American Cancer Society. We believe that these recommendations and guidelines may have contributed to increased screening intervals for cervical cancer, which we believe has and may continue to adversely affect our ThinPrep revenues. Our ThinPrep revenues may also be adversely affected by the July 2020 American Cancer Society cervical cancer screening recommendation for a primary human papillomavirus (HPV) test rather than a Pap test. In addition, on October 20, 2015, the American Cancer Society issued guidelines recommending that women start annual mammograms at age 45 instead of 40 and have a mammogram every two years instead of annually. This recommendation could result in a decrease in purchases of our mammography systems. REGULATORY AND LEGAL Changes in tax laws or exposures to additional tax liabilities could negatively impact the Company's operating results. We are subject to income taxes, as well as taxes that are not income-based, in both the U.S. and jurisdictions outside of the U.S. Our future effective tax rate could be unfavorably affected by numerous factors including a change in, or the interpretation of, tax rules and regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate (including changes in legislation currently being considered), a change in our geographic earnings mix, and/or to the jurisdictions in which we operate, or a change in the measurement of our deferred taxes. We are also subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions, and tax authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes. We operate in a highly regulated industry, and changes in healthcare laws and regulations or our inability to obtain in a timely manner or at all U.S. or foreign regulatory clearances or approvals for our current and newly developed products and services or product or service enhancements, could adversely affect our business and prospects. 24 We operate in a highly regulated industry. As a result, governmental actions may adversely affect our business, operations or financial condition, including : • new laws, regulations or judicial decisions, or new interpretations of existing laws, regulations or decisions, related to healthcare availability, method of delivery and payment for healthcare products and services; • changes in the FDA and foreign regulatory approval processes that may delay or prevent the approval of new products and result in lost market opportunity; • changes in FDA and foreign regulations that may require additional safety monitoring, labeling changes, restrictions on product distribution or use, or other measures after the introduction of our products to market, which could increase our costs of doing business, adversely affect the future permitted uses of approved products, or otherwise adversely affect the market for our products; and • new laws, regulations and judicial decisions affecting pricing or marketing practices. Given the high level of regulatory oversight to which our products are subject, the process of obtaining clearances and approvals can be costly and time consuming. In addition, there is a risk that any approvals or clearances, once obtained, may be withdrawn. Most medical devices cannot be marketed in the U.S. without 510(k) clearance or pre-market approval by the FDA. Any modifications to a device that has received a pre-market approval that affect the safety or effectiveness of the device require a pre-market approval supplement or possibly a separate pre-market approval, either of which is likely to be time consuming, expensive and uncertain to obtain. If the FDA requires us to seek one or more pre-market approval supplements or new pre-market approvals for any modification to a previously approved device, we may be required to cease marketing or to recall the modified device until we obtain approval, and we may be subject to significant criminal and/or civil sanctions, including, but not limited to, regulatory fines or penalties. States may also regulate the manufacture, sale and use of medical devices, particularly those that employ x-ray technology. Our products are also subject to approval and regulation by foreign regulatory and safety agencies. For example, the EU has adopted the EU Medical Device Regulation (the “EU MDR”) and the In Vitro Diagnostic Regulation (the “EU IVDR”), each of which impose stricter requirements for the marketing and sale of medical devices, including in the area of clinical evaluation requirements, quality systems and post-market surveillance. Manufacturers of currently approved medical devices will have until May 2022 to meet the EU IVDR. Complying with the requirements of these regulations may require us to incur significant expenditures. Failure to meet these requirements could adversely impact our business in the EU and other regions that tie their product registrations to the EU requirements. We anticipate that governmental authorities will continue to scrutinize the healthcare industry closely and that changes in laws, regulations or policies by governmental authorities may cause increased uncertainties and compliance costs, exposure to litigation and other adverse effects to our business and operations. Delays in receipt of, or failure to obtain or maintain, clearances or approvals for future products could delay or preclude realization of product revenues from new or existing products or result in substantial additional costs which could decrease our profitability. In addition, maintaining compliance with multiple regulators, and multiple centers within the FDA, adds complexity and cost to our manufacturing processes. Our manufacturing facilities and those of our contract manufacturers are subject to periodic regulatory inspections by the FDA and other regulatory agencies, and these facilities are subject to the FDA's Quality System Regulation and Good Manufacturing Practices. We or our contractors may fail to satisfy these regulatory requirements in the future, and any failure to do so may prevent us from selling our products. Some of our activities may subject us to risks under federal and state laws prohibiting “kickbacks” and false or fraudulent claims. We are subject to the provisions of a federal law commonly known as the anti-kickback statute, and several similar state laws, which prohibit payments intended to induce physicians or others either to refer patients or to acquire or arrange for or recommend the acquisition of healthcare products or services. While the federal law applies only to products or services for which payment may be made by a federal healthcare program, state laws often apply regardless of whether federal funds may be involved. These laws constrain the sales, marketing and other promotional activities of manufacturers of medical devices by limiting the kinds of financial arrangements, including sales programs that may be used with hospitals, physicians, laboratories and other potential purchasers of medical devices. Other federal and state laws generally prohibit individuals or entities from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, claims for payment from Medicare, Medicaid, or other third-party payors that are false or fraudulent, or are for items or services that were not provided as claimed. Similarly, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act also includes stringent reporting requirements of financial relationships between device manufacturers and physicians and teaching hospitals. Specifically, under one provision of the law, which is commonly referred to as the Physician Payment Sunshine Act, we are required to collect data on and annually report to CMS certain payments or other transfers of value to physicians and teaching hospitals and annually report certain ownership and investment interests held by physicians or 25 their immediate family members. Anti-kickback and false claims laws and the Physician Payment Sunshine Act prescribe civil and criminal penalties (including fines) for noncompliance that can be substantial. Similarly, our international operations are subject to the provisions of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977, as amended ("FCPA"), which prohibits U.S. companies and their representatives from offering or making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. In many countries, the healthcare professionals we regularly interact with may meet the definition of a foreign official for purposes of the FCPA. Our international operations are also subject to various other international anti-bribery laws such as the UK Anti-Bribery Act. Despite meaningful measures that we undertake to facilitate lawful conduct, which include training and compliance programs and internal policies and procedures, we may not always prevent unauthorized, reckless or criminal acts by our employees or agents, or employees or agents of businesses or operations we may acquire. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our operations, involve significant management distraction and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We also could be subject to adverse publicity, severe penalties, including criminal and civil penalties, disgorgement, further changes or enhancements to our procedures, policies and controls, personnel changes and other remedial actions. Moreover, our failure to comply with domestic or foreign laws could result in various adverse consequences, including possible delay in approval or refusal to approve a product, recalls, seizures, and withdrawal of an approved product from the market. We are subject to the risk of product liability claims relating to our products for which we may not have adequate insurance. Our business involves the risk of product liability and other claims inherent to the medical device business. If even one of our products is found to have caused or contributed to injuries or deaths, we could be held liable for substantial damages. We maintain product liability insurance subject to deductibles and exclusions. There is a risk that the insurance coverage will not be sufficient to protect us from product and other liability claims, or that product liability insurance will not be available to us at a reasonable cost, if at all. An under-insured or uninsured claim could harm our business and prospects. In addition, claims could adversely affect the reputation of the related product, which could damage that product’s competitive position in the market. The sale and use of our diagnostic products could also lead to product liability claims if someone were to allege that one of our products contained a design or manufacturing defect that resulted in inaccurate test results or the failure to detect a disorder for which it was being used to screen, or caused injuries to a patient. Any product liability claim brought against us, with or without merit, could result in an increase in our product liability insurance rates or the inability to secure additional coverage in the future. Also, even a meritless or unsuccessful product liability claim could be time consuming and expensive to defend. This could result in a diversion of management’s attention from our business and adversely affect the perceived safety and efficacy of our products, which could harm our business and prospects. We are subject to environmental, health and safety laws and regulations, including related to our use and recycling of hazardous materials and the composition of our products. Our research and development and manufacturing processes involve the controlled use of hazardous materials, such as toxic and carcinogenic chemicals and various radioactive compounds, and the risk of contamination or injury from these materials cannot be eliminated. In such event, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, and any such liability could be extensive. From time to time new regulations are enacted, and it is difficult to anticipate how such regulations will be implemented and enforced. We continue to evaluate the necessary steps for compliance with regulations as they are enacted. These regulations include, for example, regulations enacted in the EU such as the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemical Substances, or REACH, which requires the registration of and regulates use of certain chemicals, the Restriction on the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive, or RoHS, which regulates the use of certain hazardous substances in certain products we manufacture, and the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive, or WEEE, which requires the collection, reuse and recycling of waste from certain products we manufacture. These and similar legislation that has been or is in the process of being enacted in Japan, China and various states of the U.S. may require us to re-design our products to ensure compliance with the applicable standards, for example by requiring the use of different types of materials. These redesigns or the use of alternative materials may detrimentally impact the performance of our products, add greater testing lead times for product introductions, result in additional costs or have other similar effects. We are also subject to other substantial regulation relating to environmental, health and safety matters, including occupational health and safety, environmental protection, hazardous substance control, and waste management and disposal. The failure to comply with such regulations could subject us to, among other things, fines and criminal liability. We may also be required to incur significant costs to comply with these and future regulations, which may result in a material adverse effect upon our business, financial condition and results of operation. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY 26 Our business is dependent on technologies we license, and if we fail to maintain these licenses or license new technologies and rights to particular nucleic acid sequences for targeted diseases in the future, we may be limited in our ability to develop new products. Our business is dependent on licenses from third parties for some of our key technologies. For example, our patented TMA technology is based on technology we licensed from Stanford University. We anticipate that we will enter into new licensing arrangements in the ordinary course of business to expand our product portfolio and access new technologies to enhance our products and develop new products. Many of these licenses will provide us with exclusive rights to the subject technology or disease marker. If our license with respect to any of these technologies or markers is terminated for any reason, we may not be able to sell products that incorporate that technology. Similarly, we may lose competitive advantages if we fail to maintain exclusivity under an exclusive license. Our ability to develop additional diagnostic tests for diseases may depend on the ability of third parties to discover particular sequences or markers and correlate them with disease, as well as the rate at which such discoveries are made. Our ability to design products that target these diseases may depend on our ability to obtain the necessary rights from the third parties that make any of these discoveries. In addition, there are a finite number of diseases and conditions for which our NAT diagnostic assays may be economically viable. If we are unable to access new technologies or the rights to particular sequences or markers necessary for additional diagnostic products on commercially reasonable terms, we may be limited in our ability to develop new diagnostic products. Our products and manufacturing processes may require access to technologies and materials that may be subject to patents or other intellectual property rights held by third parties. Our business could be adversely affected if we are unable to obtain the additional intellectual property rights necessary to commercialize our products. Our business could be harmed if we are unable to protect our proprietary technology. We have relied primarily on a combination of trade secrets, patents, copyrights, trademarks and confidentiality procedures to protect our products and technology. Despite these precautions, unauthorized third parties may infringe, misappropriate or otherwise violate our intellectual property, or copy or reverse engineer portions of our technology. The pursuit and assertion of a patent right, particularly in areas like nucleic acid diagnostics and biotechnology, involve complex determinations and, therefore, are characterized by substantial uncertainty. We do not know if current or future patent applications will be issued with the full scope of the claims sought, if at all, or whether any patents that are issued will be challenged or invalidated. The patents that we own or license could also be subjected to invalidation proceedings or similar disputes, and an unfavorable outcome could require us to cease using the related technology or to attempt to license rights to the technology from the prevailing party. There is also a risk that intellectual property laws outside of the U.S. will not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as intellectual property laws in the U.S. Even if our proprietary information is protected by patents or otherwise, the initiation of actions to protect our proprietary information could be costly and divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel, and the outcome of such litigation is often uncertain. As a result of these uncertainties, we could also elect to forego such litigation or settle such litigation without fully enforcing our proprietary rights. In the absence of significant patent protection, we may be vulnerable to competitors who attempt to copy our products, processes or technology. Additionally, rights provided by a patent are finite in time. Over the coming years, certain patents relating to current products will expire in the U.S. and abroad thus allowing third parties to utilize certain of our technologies. Our business could be harmed if we infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. There has been substantial litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in the medical device, diagnostic products and related industries. We are and have been involved in patent litigation and may in the future be subject to further claims of infringement of intellectual property rights possessed by third parties. In connection with claims of patent infringement, we may seek to enter into settlement and/or licensing arrangements. There is a risk in these situations that no license will be available or that a license will not be available on reasonable terms. Alternatively, we may decide to litigate such claims or to design around the technology. These actions could be costly and would divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel. As a result, any infringement claims by third parties or claims for indemnification by customers resulting from infringement claims, whether or not proven to be true, may harm our business and prospects. INDEBTEDNESS We have a significant amount of indebtedness outstanding, which limits our operating flexibility, and could adversely affect our operations and financial results and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations . As of September 25, 2021, we had approximately $3.05 billion aggregate principal of indebtedness outstanding (exclusive of additional funds that would be available to draw under our revolver and any funds that we may draw under our accounts 27 receivable securitization program). We also have other contractual obligations and deferred tax liabilities, which as of September 25, 2021, are described under “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements — Income Taxes, and Non-cancelable Purchase Commitments.” This significant level of indebtedness and our other obligations may: • make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our outstanding indebtedness; • increase our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, including increases in interest rates; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to interest and principal payments on our indebtedness, which would reduce the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, expansion efforts, strategic transactions and other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the markets in which we participate; • place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less debt; and • limit our ability to borrow additional funds for working capital, capital expenditures, expansion efforts, strategic transactions or other general corporate purposes. In addition, the terms of our financing obligations contain certain covenants that restrict our ability, and that of our subsidiaries, to engage in certain transactions and may impair our ability to respond to changing business and economic conditions, including, among other things, limitations on our ability to: • incur indebtedness or issue certain preferred equity; • pay dividends, repurchase our common stock, or make other distributions or restricted payments; • make certain investments; • agree to payment restrictions affecting the restricted subsidiaries; • sell or otherwise transfer or dispose of assets, including equity interests of our subsidiaries; • enter into transactions with our affiliates; • create liens; • designate our subsidiaries as unrestricted subsidiaries; • consolidate, merge or sell substantially all of our assets; and • use the proceeds of permitted sales of our assets. Our amended and restated credit facilities also require us to satisfy certain financial covenants. Our ability to comply with these provisions may be affected by general economic conditions, political decisions, industry conditions and other events beyond our control. Our failure to comply with the covenants contained in our amended and restated credit facilities, including financial covenants, could result in an event of default, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. If there were an event of default under one of our debt instruments or a change of control, the holders of the defaulted debt could cause all amounts outstanding with respect to that debt to be due and payable immediately and may be cross-defaulted to other debt, including our outstanding notes. Our assets or cash flow may not be sufficient to fully repay borrowings under our outstanding debt instruments if accelerated upon an event of default or a change of control, and there is no guarantee that we would be able to repay, refinance or restructure the payments on such debt. See “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Liquidity and Capital Resources.” We may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow to service all of our indebtedness and other obligations. Our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures, strategic transactions and expansion efforts will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. This, to a certain extent, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors that are beyond our control. Our business may not be able to generate sufficient cash flow from operations, and we cannot assure that future borrowings will be available to us in amounts sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness as such indebtedness matures and to fund our other liquidity needs. If this occurs, we will need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. We may need to adopt one or more alternatives, such as reducing or delaying planned expenses and capital expenditures, selling assets, restructuring debt, or obtaining additional equity or debt financing. These alternative strategies may not be affected on satisfactory terms, if at all. Our ability to refinance our indebtedness or obtain additional financing, or to do so on commercially reasonable terms, will depend on, among other things, our financial condition at the time, restrictions in agreements governing our indebtedness, and other factors, including the condition of the financial markets and the markets in which we compete. If we do not generate sufficient cash flow from operations, and additional borrowings, refinancings or proceeds from asset sales are not available to us, we may not have sufficient cash to enable us to meet all of our obligations. A significant portion of our indebtedness is subject to floating interest rates, which may expose us to higher interest payments. 28 A significant portion of our indebtedness is subject to floating interest rates, which makes us more vulnerable in the event of adverse economic conditions, increases in prevailing interest rates, or a downturn in our business. As of September 25, 2021, approximately $1.6 billion aggregate principal of our indebtedness, which represented the outstanding principal under our amended and restated credit facilities and asset securitization agreement, was subject to floating interest rates. We currently have limited hedging arrangements in place to mitigate the impact of higher interest rates, including an interest rate swap agreement, which expires on December 17, 2023. We cannot assure that we would be able to extend this hedge at an attractive price and terms. The proposed discontinuation or replacement of LIBOR would require us to amend certain agreements and may otherwise adversely affect our business. The UK Financial Conduct Authority announced in 2017 that it intends to phase out LIBOR. It is currently anticipated that LIBOR will be completely phased out by June 30, 2023. Changes in the method of calculating LIBOR, or the replacement of LIBOR with an alternative rate or benchmark, may adversely affect interest rates and result in higher borrowing costs. This could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. If changes are made to the method of calculating LIBOR or LIBOR ceases to exist, we may need to amend certain contracts, and we cannot predict what alternative rate or benchmark would be negotiated. This may result in an increase to our interest expense. GENERAL RISK FACTORS Provisions in our charter, bylaws, and indebtedness may have the effect of discouraging advantageous offers for our business or common stock and limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. Our charter, bylaws, and the provisions of the Delaware General Corporation Law include provisions that may have the effect of discouraging or preventing a change of control. Our indebtedness also contains provisions which either accelerate or require us to offer to repurchase the indebtedness at a premium upon a change of control. These provisions could limit the price that our stockholders might receive in the future for shares of our common stock. Our stock price is volatile. The market price of our common stock has been, and may continue to be, highly volatile. We believe that a variety of factors could cause the price of our common stock to fluctuate, perhaps substantially, including: • new, or changes in, recommendations, guidelines or studies that could affect the use of our products; • announcements and rumors of developments related to our business, including changes in reimbursement rates or regulatory requirements, proposed and completed acquisitions, or the industry in which we compete; • published studies and reports relating to the comparative efficacy of products and markets in which we participate; • quarterly fluctuations in our actual or anticipated operating results and order levels; • general conditions in the U.S. or worldwide economy; • our stock repurchase program; • announcements of technological innovations; • new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; • developments in patents or other intellectual property rights and litigation; • developments in relationships with our customers and suppliers; • the implementation of healthcare reform legislation and the adoption of additional reform legislation in the future; and • the success or lack of success of integrating our acquisitions. In addition, the stock market in general and the markets for shares of “high-tech” and life sciences companies, have historically experienced extreme price fluctuations which have often been unrelated to the operating performance of affected companies. Any such fluctuations in the future could adversely affect the market price of our common stock, and the market price of our common stock may decline.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements, the information described under the caption “Risk Factors” in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report and our Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements at the outset of this Annual Report. OVERVIEW We are a developer, manufacturer and supplier of premium diagnostics products, medical imaging systems and surgical products focused on women's health and well-being through early detection and treatment. We sell and service our products through a combination of direct sales and service personnel and a network of independent distributors and sales representatives. We operate in four segments: Diagnostics, Breast Health, GYN Surgical and Skeletal Health. Until December 30, 2019, our product portfolio included aesthetic and medical treatments systems sold by our former Medical Aesthetic business. We completed the sale of our Medical Aesthetics segment on December 30, 2019 (the first day of the second quarter of fiscal 2020). Through our Diagnostics segment, we offer a wide range of diagnostic products, which are used primarily to aid in the screening and diagnosis of human diseases. Our primary Diagnostics products include our molecular diagnostic assays, which run on our advanced instrumentation systems (Panther, Panther Fusion and Tigris), our ThinPrep cytology system, and the Rapid Fetal Fibronectin Test. Our Aptima family of molecular diagnostic assays is used to detect, among other things, the infectious microorganisms that cause common sexually transmitted diseases, or STDs, such as: chlamydia and gonorrhea, or GTGC; certain high-risk strains of human papillomavirus, or HPV; and Trichomonas vaginalis , the parasite that causes trichomoniasis; Mycoplasma genitalium; and Herpes simplex viruses 1 and 2. We also offer viral load tests for HIV, Hepatitis C and Hepatitis B for use on our Panther instrument system. Our assay portfolio also includes diagnostic tests for a range of acute respiratory infections, including SARS-CoV-2, as well as a test for the detection of Group B Streptococcus, or GBS, that are run on the Panther Fusion system, a field upgradeable instrument addition to the base Panther system. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we developed and launched the Aptima SARS-CoV-2 assay (which runs on our standard Panther system) and the Panther Fusion SARS-CoV-2 assay (which runs on our Panther Fusion system). The Panther Fusion SARS-CoV-2 assay and the Aptima SARS-CoV-2 assay were launched at the end of our second quarter and in the third quarter of fiscal 2020, respectively. The ThinPrep System is primarily used in cytology applications, such as cervical cancer screening, and the Rapid Fetal Fibronectin Test assists physicians in assessing the risk of pre-term birth. Our Breast Health segment offers a broad portfolio of solutions for breast cancer care primarily in the areas of radiology, breast surgery, pathology and treatment. These solutions include 3D digital mammography systems, image analytics software utilizing artificial intelligence, reading workstations, ultrasound imaging, minimally invasive breast biopsy guidance systems, breast biopsy site markers, localization, specimen radiology, connectivity solutions and breast conserving surgery products. Our most advanced breast imaging platforms, Selenia Dimensions and 3Dimensions, utilize tomosynthesis to produce 3D images that show multiple contiguous slice images of the breast, which we refer to as the Genius 3D Mammography exam. Our GYN Surgical products include our NovaSure Endometrial Ablation System, or NovaSure, and our MyoSure Hysteroscopic Tissue Removal System, or MyoSure, as well as our Fluent Fluid Management system, or Fluent. The NovaSure portfolio is comprised of the NovaSure CLASSIC and NovaSure ADVANCED devices and involves a trans-cervical procedure for the treatment of abnormal uterine bleeding. The MyoSure suite of devices offers four options to provide incision-less removal of fibroids, polyps, and other pathology within the uterus. The Fluent system is a fluid management system that provides liquid distention during diagnostic and operative hysteroscopic procedures. Our Skeletal Health segment's products includes the Horizon DXA, a dual energy x-ray system, which evaluates bone density and performs body composition assessments, and the Fluoroscan Insight FD mini C-arm, which assists in performing minimally invasive orthopedic surgical procedures on a patient's extremities, such as the hand, wrist, knee, foot, and ankle. Our Medical Aesthetics segment consisted of a portfolio of aesthetic treatment systems. We completed the sale of our Medical Aesthetics business on December 30, 2019. Unless the context otherwise requires, references to we, us, Hologic or our company refer to Hologic, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. COVID-19 Considerations The global COVID-19 pandemic has created significant volatility, uncertainty, and economic disruption in the markets we sell our products into, primarily the U.S., Europe and Asia-Pacific. Starting in the second quarter of fiscal 2020, the spread of COVID-19 negatively impacted business and healthcare activity globally. In particular, due to government measures, elective 33 procedures and exams were delayed or cancelled, there were significant reductions in physician office visits, and hospitals postponed or canceled capital purchases as well as limited or eliminated services; however, in the second half of the third quarter of fiscal 2020, we started to see a recovery of elective procedures and exams as economies were opened back up and restrictions eased, which has continued through the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021. The reductions in testing and procedures had a negative impact on our operating results and cash flows in fiscal 2020, however, the impact of the commercial release of our COVID-19 assays more than offset those negative impacts as we generated significant revenue from the sales of these assays starting in the third quarter of fiscal 2020 through the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021. While our results of operations and cash flows since the third quarter of fiscal 2020 have been positively impacted by the sale of our COVID-19 assays as well the continued recovery of our other primary product lines and businesses to pre-COVID levels, the COVID-19 pandemic could have an adverse impact on our operating results, cash flows and financial condition in the future. The factors that could create such adverse impact include: reduced demand for COVID-19 testing; competition from existing and new COVID-19 testing technologies and products as well as the timing and effectiveness of distributing vaccines; the severity and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic; the resurgence of COVID-19 infections; the emergence of new COVID strain variants; the COVID-19 pandemic's impact on the U.S. and international healthcare systems, the U.S. economy and worldwide economy; and the timing, scope and effectiveness of U.S. and international governmental, regulatory, fiscal, monetary and public health responses to the COVID-19 pandemic and associated economic disruptions. We expect that as the current COVID-19 pandemic subsides, there may be a significantly reduced demand for ongoing testing, and thus, for our COVID-19 assays. As expected in the third quarter of fiscal 2021, revenues generated from the sale of its COVID-19 assays decreased significantly in the U.S. compared to the prior year period and the first and second quarters of fiscal 2021 as the population of vaccinated people continues to grow in the U.S. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021, COVID-19 assay revenues increased compared to the preceding quarter primarily due to the impact of the delta strain of COVID-19 resulting in higher demand for testing. However, COVID-19 assay revenues decreased compared to the corresponding prior year period. In response to the negative impact of COVID-19 on our business, in April 2020, we initiated cost-cutting measures, which included not only reducing discretionary and variable spend, such as travel, marketing programs and the use of contractors, consultants and temporary help, but we also implemented employee furloughs, salary cuts primarily in the U.S., reduced hours and in certain instances, effected employee terminations. Further in April 2020, we shut down certain manufacturing facilities temporarily and implemented reduced work-week schedules in response to lower near-term demand for many of our products. As of the end of the third quarter of fiscal 2020, substantially all of the Company's employee cost-cutting measures ceased During fiscal 2021 the majority of the impacted manufacturing facilities were back to pre-COVID levels. We have also taken and continue to take measures to ensure the safety of our employees and to comply with governmental orders. These measures could require that our employees continue to work remotely or otherwise refrain from reporting to their normal workplace for extended periods of time, which in turn could result in a decrease in our commercial and marketing activities. In addition, complying with government and customer vaccine mandates that apply to us may lead to employee attrition, disrupt our workforce and result in additional costs associated with implementation and on-going compliance, which could have an adverse impact on our operating results, cash flows and financial condition. Acquisitions and Disposition The following sets forth a description of certain of our acquisitions and dispositions in our last two fiscal years: Mobidiag On June 17, 2021, we completed the acquisition of Mobidiag Oy, or Mobidiag, for a purchase price of $729.6 million. Mobidiag, located in Finland, manufactures molecular diagnostic solutions for gastrointestinal infections, antimicrobial resistance management and other infections. This acquisition expanded our molecular diagnostics portfolio into the near-patient testing market. Based on our preliminary valuation, we allocated $399.9 million of the purchase price to the value of intangible assets and $432.6 million to goodwill. The remaining $102.9 million of the purchase price was allocated to the net acquired tangible assets and liabilities. The allocation of the purchase price is preliminary as we continue to gather information supporting the acquired assets and liabilities. Mobidiag's results of operations are reported in our Diagnostics segment. Biotheranostics On February 22, 2021, we completed the acquisition of Biotheranostics, Inc., or Biotheranostics, for a purchase price of $231.3 million. Biotheranostics, located in San Diego, California, manufactures molecular diagnostic tests for breast and metastatic cancers and performs lab testing procedures at its facility. Based on our preliminary valuation, we allocated $162.4 million of the purchase price to the value of intangible assets and $80.9 million to goodwill. The remaining $12.0 million of the purchase price was allocated to the net acquired tangible assets and liabilities. The allocation of the purchase price is 34 preliminary as we continue to gather information supporting the acquired assets and liabilities. Biotheranostics' results of operations are included in our Diagnostic segment and its revenues are reported within service and other revenues in our consolidated statements of operations. Diagenode On March 1, 2021, we completed the acquisition of Diagenode SA, or Diagenode, for a purchase price of $155.1 million. Diagenode, located in Belgium, is a developer and manufacturer of molecular diagnostic assays based on PCR technology to detect infectious diseases of bacterial, viral or parasite origin. Based on our preliminary valuation, we allocated $79.0 million of the purchase price to the value of intangible assets and $83.5 million to goodwill. The remaining $7.4 million of the purchase price was allocated to the net acquired tangible assets and liabilities. The allocation of the purchase price is preliminary as we continue to gather information supporting the acquired assets and liabilities. Diagenode's results of operations are included in our Diagnostics segment. Somatex Medical Technologies On December 30, 2020, we completed the acquisition of Somatex Medical Technologies GmbH, or Somatex, for a purchase price of $62.9 million. Somatex, located in Germany, is a manufacturer of biopsy site markers, including the Tumark product line of tissue markers, which were distributed by the Company in the U.S. prior to the acquisition. Based on our preliminary valuation, we allocated $40.1 million of the purchase price to the value of intangible assets and $32.4 million to goodwill. The remaining $9.6 million of the purchase price was allocated to the net acquired tangible assets and liabilities. The allocation of the purchase price is preliminary as we continue to gather information supporting the acquired assets and liabilities. Somatex' results of operations are included in our Breast Health segment. NXC Imaging On September 28, 2020, we completed the acquisition of assets from NXC Imaging, for a purchase price of $5.6 million. NXC Imaging was a long-standing distributor of our Breast and Skeletal products in the U.S. Acessa Health On August 23, 2020, we completed the acquisition of Acessa Health, Inc., or Acessa for a purchase price of $162.0 million, which included contingent consideration and was estimated at $81.8 million as of the measurement date. Acessa, located in Austin, Texas, manufactures and markets its Acessa ProVu system, a laparoscopic radio frequency ablation system for use in treatment of uterine fibroids. Acessa's results of operations are included in our GYN Surgical segment. The contingent consideration is based on annual incremental revenue growth over a three-year period ending annually in December. The contingent consideration is payable after each annual measurement period. We remeasure the contingent consideration liability on a quarterly basis, and for fiscal year 2021 we recorded a gain of $6.7 million to decrease the liability to its fair value. The reduction in fair value was primarily due to a decrease in forecasted revenues over the measurement period, partially offset by lower discount rates and accretion of the liability. The liability was recorded at $75.1 million at September 25, 2021. Health Beacons On February 3, 2020, we completed the acquisition of Health Beacons, Inc., or Health Beacons, for a purchase price of $19.7 million. Health Beacons manufactures the LOCalizer product. Health Beacon's results of operations are reported in our Breast Health segment. Alpha Imaging On December 30, 2019, we completed the acquisition of assets from Alpha Imaging, LLC, or Alpha Imaging, for a purchase price of $18.0 million. Alpha Imaging was a long-standing distributor of our Breast and Skeletal products in the U.S. SuperSonic Imagine On August 1, 2019, we acquired approximately 46% of the outstanding shares of SuperSonic Imagine SA, or SSI, which is headquartered in France. SSI specializes in ultrasound imaging and designs, develops and markets an ultrasound platform used in the non-invasive care path for the characterization of breast, liver or prostate diseases. We initially accounted for this investment as an equity method investment. On November 21, 2019, we acquired an additional 7.6 million common shares of SSI for $12.6 million. As a result, we owned approximately 78% of the outstanding shares of SSI at November 21, 2019 and controlled SSI's voting interest and 35 operations. We performed purchase accounting as of November 21, 2019 and beginning on that date the financial results of SSI are included within our consolidated financial statements within our Breast Health segment. We remeasured the initial investment of 46% of the outstanding shares of SSI to its fair value at the acquisition date, resulting in a gain of $3.2 million in Other income (expense), net in the first quarter of fiscal 2020. During the third quarter of fiscal 2021, we acquired the remaining 4.8 million shares outstanding of SSI for $8.5 million. As of September 25, 2021, we owned 100% of SSI. Accordingly we recorded an adjustment to our net income for the noncontrolling interest we did not own of $1.8 million and $4.7 million (both of which were losses) for the years ended September 25, 2021 and September 26, 2020, respectively. Disposition - Medical Aesthetics On December 30, 2019, we completed the sale of our Medical Aesthetics. At the closing, we received cash proceeds of $153.4 million. The sales price was finalized in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020, and we repaid $3.4 million, resulting in a final sales price of $150.0 million. As a result of the sale, we recorded a $30.2 million impairment charge in the first quarter of fiscal 2020 to record the asset group at fair value less costs to dispose as it met the assets held-for-sale criteria. For additional information, see Note 15 to our consolidated financial statements included herein. Following the sale of our Medical Aesthetics business, we have not generated any further product revenue related to this business, although additional expenses have been and will be incurred primarily in connection with the indemnification of legal and tax matters that existed as of the date of disposition. In addition, we agreed to provide transition services for a period of up to 15 months, which ended in March 2021. 36 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Fiscal Year Ended September 25, 2021 Compared to Fiscal Year Ended September 26, 2020 Product Revenues We generated a 53.9% increase in product revenues in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020 primarily due to the increase in the Diagnostics business from a full year of sales of our two COVID-19 assays, one of which was launched near the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2020 and the other in the third quarter of fiscal 2020. Excluding sales of our COVID-19 assays, product revenues in the prior year period were adversely impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic, and product revenues in the current year periods have increased across our divisions. We primarily attribute this increase to recovery of elective procedures and exams, including associated capital equipment spending, as economies were opened back up and restrictions eased, and to a lesser extent a portion of the increase was driven by our current year acquisitions. The increase in product revenues in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020 was partially offset by no revenues from the Medical Aesthetics business in the current fiscal year as we disposed of this business segment on December 30, 2019, the beginning of our second quarter of fiscal 2020. Diagnostics product revenues increased 73.4% in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020 primarily due to increases in Molecular Diagnostics of $1,457.7 million, Cytology and Perinatal of $58.3 million, and an increase in blood-screening of $6.3 million. While we divested our blood screening business in the second quarter of fiscal 2017, we continue to provide long-term access to Panther instrumentation and certain supplies to the purchaser of that business. Molecular Diagnostics product revenue was $3.1 billion in fiscal 2021 compared to $1.6 billion in fiscal 2020. The increase was primarily attributable to revenues of $2.16 billion in fiscal 2021 compared to $929.3 million in fiscal 2020 from our two SARS-CoV-2 assays (primarily the Aptima SARS-CoV-2 assay and to a lesser extent the Panther Fusion SARS-CoV-2 assay), an increase in Panther and Panther Fusion instrument sales due to demand for increased testing capacity for COVID-19, and an increase of $150.2 million in Aptima assays sales, which primarily consist of our CTGC, HPV and Trichomonas vaginalis assays, and related collection kits due to a return to pre-COVID testing levels. Prior fiscal year sales of these assays were adversely impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic and related lockdowns across the globe. In addition, we had an increase of $9.4 million in worldwide sales of our virology products in the current fiscal year. We expect that sales of our COVID-19 assays will decline significantly in fiscal 2022 compared to the current fiscal year primarily due to the continued distribution of vaccines. Cytology & Perinatal product revenue increased $58.3 million in the current fiscal year primarily due to higher ThinPrep test volumes, which we primarily attribute to the recovery of wellness office visits that had previously been delayed or cancelled in the prior year in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, partially offset by lower average selling prices and lower Perinatal product volumes. The inclusion of Diagenode and Mobidiag contributed $29.9 million of product revenue in the current fiscal year. We also experienced an increase in revenue from the favorable foreign currency exchange impact of the weakened U.S. dollar against a number of currencies in current fiscal year. Breast Health product revenues increased 21.3% in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020 as product revenues in the prior fiscal year were adversely impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic and related lockdowns across the globe. These increases were primarily due to an increase in sales volume of our digital mammography systems and related workflow products (primarily Intelligent 2D, Clarity HD and SmartCurve), Affirm Prone breast biopsy tables, and our interventional breast solutions products, primarily Eviva, ATEC, and Brevera disposables (relaunched in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020). In addition, we had higher sales of our breast conserving surgery products and ultrasound imaging products. We primarily attribute the increase in revenues to hospitals and imaging centers purchasing capital equipment following a significant decline in such spending during fiscal 2020 and to the recovery of elective procedures and exams as elective procedures and wellness visits that had previously been delayed or cancelled in the prior year in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. We also experienced an increase in revenue from the favorable foreign currency exchange impact of the weakened U.S. dollar against a number of currencies in the current year. 37 GYN Surgical product revenues increased 29.8% in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020, primarily due to the recovery of elective medical visits and procedures that had previously been delayed or cancelled in response to the COVID-19 pandemic and to a lesser extent healthcare providers increasing their inventory levels. These revenue increases were primarily due to increases in the sales volumes of MyoSure systems, NovaSure systems, Fluent Fluid Management systems and to a lesser extent sales of ProVu systems acquired in the Acessa acquisition in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020. We also experienced an increase in revenue from the favorable foreign currency exchange impact of the weakened U.S. dollar against a number of currencies in the current year. Skeletal Health product revenues increased 22.7% in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020 primarily due to an increase in sales volume of both our Insight FD mini C-arm and Horizon DXA systems. We primarily attribute this increase to the increase in wellness visits and healthcare screenings in 2021 as a result of the ongoing recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic. We divested the Medical Aesthetics segment on December 30, 2019, the beginning of our second quarter of fiscal 2020. We have generated no revenue from the segment since that date. Product revenues by geography as a percentage of total revenues were as follows: While our product revenue increased in all our geographic regions, our largest proportionate increase was in Europe, which we primarily attribute to strong sales of our SARS-CoV-2 assays in Europe, growth in our Aptima assays in Europe as we expanded our customer base, increased sales from the adoption of co-testing for cervical cancer screening in Germany and to a lesser extent in the UK, as well as the inclusion of revenue from Diagenode, Mobidiag and Somatex, which are predominantly in Europe. Asia-Pacific product revenue as a percentage of total product revenue increased primarily due to an increase in sales of our SARS-CoV-2 assays in the region, an increase in sales of our mammography systems and growth in ThinPrep and Molecular Diagnostics primarily due to the recovery of wellness office visits that had previously been delayed or cancelled in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Service and Other Revenues Service and other revenues are primarily comprised of revenue generated from our field service organization to provide ongoing service, installation and repair of our products. The majority of these revenues are generated within our Breast Health segment. Service and other revenues increased 21.0% in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020 primarily due to an increase in Breast Health service contract revenue as the Breast Health business continued to convert a high percentage of our installed base of digital mammography systems to service contracts upon expiration of the warranty period, as well as additions from our distributor acquisitions. We also experienced an increase in spare parts revenue in the current fiscal year for services that had previously been delayed or cancelled due to the COVID-19 pandemic. In our Diagnostics business, we had additional royalty revenue in the current fiscal year of $34.4 million from Grifols related to licensing our intellectual property to our COVID-19 assays for their sale in Spain. In addition, the inclusion of Biotheranostics added $33.7 million in the current fiscal year. These increases were partially offset by the sale of the Medical Aesthetics business which contributed $15.6 million of service revenue in the prior fiscal year. Cost of Product Revenues 38 Product gross margin was 70.2% in fiscal 2021 compared to 61.8% in fiscal 2020. Cost of Product Revenues. The cost of product revenues as a percentage of product revenues was 24.3% in the current year compared to 29.6% in the prior year. Cost of product revenues as a percentage of revenue decreased in fiscal 2021 primarily due to sales of our SARS-CoV-2 assays, which have higher gross margins compared to our other Diagnostic products, and comprised 43.5% and 28.8% of total product revenue in fiscal 2021 and fiscal 2020, respectively. Also benefiting gross margin in the current year were higher sales volumes from our other businesses and product lines as they have continued to recover from the COVID-19 pandemic as economies opened back up and restrictions eased and the disposition of Medical Aesthetics, which had lower gross margins compared to our remaining businesses. Partially offsetting these decreases were higher field service costs for our expanded instrument installed base for the Diagnostics business and higher freight costs. Diagnostics' product costs as a percentage of revenue decreased in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020 primarily due to higher sales of our SARS-CoV-2 assays and higher overall production of our Aptima assays and ThinPrep Pap Test reducing fixed overhead on a unit basis. These increases were partially offset by increased international freight costs, increased inventory reserves, higher field service costs for our expanded instrument installed base, an increase in amortization of placed instruments, and a slight decline in average selling prices partially driven by geographic mix. Breast Health’s product costs as a percentage of revenue decreased in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020 primarily due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic in the prior year, which resulted in decreased sales volume across the majority of our product lines, period costs for temporary facility shut-downs and reduced manufacturing utilization and higher inventory reserves. In the current fiscal year, sales volumes have increased for our higher margin 3Dimensions systems, higher-margin workflow products (primarily consisting of Intelligent 2D, Clarity HD and SmartCurve), and our breast biopsy and breast conserving surgery disposable products. Increased sales also improved manufacturing utilization. GYN Surgical’s product costs as a percentage of revenue decreased in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020 primarily due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic in the prior year, which resulted in significant decreases in sales volume of our NovaSure and MyoSure devices, period costs for the temporary shutdown of our manufacturing facility and reduced manufacturing utilization. In the current fiscal year, the Surgical business has recovered to pre-COVID levels which significantly improved manufacturing utilization and margins, partially offset by the product mix of higher volumes of lower margin products, including our Fluent Fluid Management systems and Acessa ProVu systems. Skeletal Health’s product costs as a percentage of revenue decreased in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020 due to higher sales volume of both our Insight FD mini C-arm and Horizon DXA systems and lower inventory reserves in the current year. We divested the Medical Aesthetics segment on December 30, 2019, the beginning of our second quarter of fiscal 2020. Amortization of Acquired Intangible Assets. Amortization of intangible assets included in cost of product revenues relates to acquired developed technology, which is generally amortized over its estimated useful life of between 5 and 15 years using a straight-line method or, if reliably determinable, based on the pattern in which the economic benefits of the assets are expected to be consumed. Amortization expense increased in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020 primarily due to intangible assets acquired in the Mobidiag, Acessa, Biotheranostics, Diagenode and Somatex acquisitions, partially offset by lower amortization of intangible assets acquired in the Cytyc acquisition which reduces over time. Impairment of Intangible Assets and Equipment. As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, we recorded an aggregate impairment charge of $30.2 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2020. The impairment charge was allocated to the Medical Aesthetics long-lived assets, of which $25.8 million was allocated to developed technology assets and written off to cost of revenues. Cost of Service and Other Revenues 39 Service and other revenues gross margin was 46.7% in fiscal 2021 compared to 42.4% in fiscal 2020. The increase in gross margin was primarily due to additional royalty revenue from Grifols related to licensing our intellectual property related to our COVID-19 assays for their sale in Spain, which has a high margin, and laboratory testing services from Biotheranostics, which has a higher gross margin than our legacy service businesses. In addition, in the current year period the Breast Health business had an increase in service contract revenue which benefited gross margin as service contract revenue has higher margins compared to revenue from spare parts, installation and training. Operating Expenses ** Percentage not meaningful Research and Development Expenses. Research and development expenses increased 24.2% in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020 primarily due to higher R&D project spend in Diagnostics, Breast Health and Surgical, the inclusion of expenses from the Mobidiag, Acessa, Biotheranostics, Diagenode and Somatex acquisitions aggregating $14.6 million, higher salary expense from increased headcount in Diagnostics, higher project and consulting spend and increased spending to implement the European Medical Device Regulation (MDR) and In Vitro Diagnostic Regulation (IVDR) requirements. In the current year, we also recorded a $7.0 million charge related to the purchase of intellectual property in Breast Health that has no future alternative use. Partially offsetting these increases in the current year was the reduction of expense due to the disposition of the Medical Aesthetics business which contributed $7.3 million of expense in the prior year. In addition, we recorded a credit to research and development expenses of $11.0 million and $7.1 million in fiscal 2021 and 2020, respectively, from the Biomedical Advanced Research and Development Authority (BARDA) in connection with a grant to expand manufacturing capacity, obtain FDA approval of our SARS-CoV-2 assays and develop sampling pooling capability and other enhancements to our SARS-CoV-2 assays. At any point in time, we have a number of different research projects and clinical trials being conducted and the timing of these projects and related costs can vary from period to period. Selling and Marketing Expenses. Selling and marketing expenses increased 15.8% in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020 primarily due inclusion of expenses from the Mobidiag, Acessa, Biotheranostics, Diagenode and Somatex acquisitions aggregating $36.3 million, an increase in commissions in Breast Health, Surgical and Diagnostics from higher revenues, and an increase in marketing initiatives and consulting spend. Partially offsetting these increases in the current year was the disposition of the Medical Aesthetics business which contributed $23.7 million of expense in the prior year, lower travel and trade show expenses in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, decreases in meeting expenses primarily related to cancelling our national sales meeting and not having an in-person RSNA conference as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, and lower bonus expense. 40 General and Administrative Expenses. General and administrative expenses increased 21.8% in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020 primarily due to the inclusion of expenses from the Mobidiag, Acessa, Biotheranostics, Diagenode and Somatex acquisitions aggregating $16.4 million, increased acquisition transaction costs including $11.5 million for a transfer tax related to the Mobidiag acquisition, a $11.2 million non-income tax charge related to an ongoing non-income tax audit, higher expense from our deferred compensation plan, higher litigation and settlement costs, increased consulting spend for corporate initiatives and information system implementation projects, higher charitable donations, higher salary expenses due to an increase in headcount and the cessation of furloughs implemented in April 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic before the end of the prior year period, and lower credits in the current year of $3.5 million related to transition services provided to Cynosure. Partially offsetting these increases were lower stock-based compensation and bonuses, lower bad debt expense, the disposition of the Medical Aesthetics business, which contributed $5.5 million of expenses in the prior year, expenses incurred in the prior year to separate and dispose of that business, and a $3.3 million benefit due to reversal of a tax reserve. Amortization of Acquired Intangible Assets. Amortization of intangible assets results from customer relationships, trade names, distributor relationships and business licenses related to our acquisitions. These intangible assets are generally amortized over their estimated useful lives of between 2 and 30 years using a straight-line method or, if reliably determinable, based on the pattern in which the economic benefits of the assets are expected to be consumed utilizing expected undiscounted future cash flows. Amortization expense increased 6.3% in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020 primarily due to increases from recent acquisitions, partially offset by assets from older acquisitions becoming fully amortized. Contingent Consideration Fair Value Adjustments. In connection with the acquisition of Acessa, we are obligated to make contingent earn-out payments. The payments are based on achieving incremental revenue growth over a three-year period ending annually in December. As of the acquisition date for Acessa, we recorded a contingent consideration liability for the estimated fair value of the amount we expected to pay to the former shareholders of the acquired business. This liability is not contingent on future employment, and we recorded our estimate of the fair value of the contingent consideration liability utilizing the Monte Carlo simulation based on future revenue projections of Acessa, comparable company revenue growth rates, implied volatility and applying a risk adjusted discount rate. Increases or decreases in the fair value of contingent consideration liabilities can result from the passage of time, changes in discount rates, and changes in the timing, probabilities and amount of revenue estimates. In the current year, we recorded a gain of $6.7 million to decrease the liability to its fair value. The reduction in fair value was primarily due to a decrease in forecasted revenues over the measurement period, partially offset by a lower discount rate and accretion of the liability based on the passage of time. Impairment of Intangible Assets and Equipment. As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, we recorded an aggregate impairment charge of $30.2 million during the first quarter of fiscal 2020. The impairment charge was allocated to the Medical Aesthetics long-lived assets of which $4.4 million was written off to operating expenses. Restructuring and Divestiture Charges. We have implemented various cost reduction initiatives to align our cost structure with our operations and related to integration activities. These actions have primarily resulted in the termination of employees, As a result, we recorded charges of $9.3 million in fiscal 2021 and $15.3 million in fiscal 2020, primarily related to severance benefits. For additional information, please refer to Note 6 to our consolidated financial statements. Interest Expense Interest expense in fiscal 2021 and 2020 consists primarily of the cash interest costs and the related amortization of the debt discount and deferred issuance costs on our outstanding debt. Interest expense in fiscal 2021 decreased compared to fiscal 2020 primarily due to a decrease in LIBOR year over year, the basis for determining interest expense under our 2018 Credit Agreement, lower interest rates on our Senior Notes due to issuing our 2029 Senior Notes and paying off our 2025 Senior Notes, and the pay-off of amounts outstanding under our accounts receivable asset securitization agreement in the prior year, partially offset by issuance costs expensed from the issuance of the 2029 Senior Notes and higher interest rate swap expenses. Debt Extinguishment Loss 41 In the first quarter of fiscal 2021, we completed a private placement of $950 million aggregate principal amount of our 2029 Senior Notes, The proceeds under the 2029 Senior Notes offering, together with available cash, were used to redeem our 2025 Senior Notes in the same principal amount. In connection with this transaction, we recorded a debt extinguishment loss of $21.6 million in the first quarter of fiscal 2021. Other Income (Expense), net In fiscal 2021, this account primarily consisted of a net foreign currency exchange loss of $17.1 million, partially driven by the mark-to-market and settling of outstanding forward foreign currency exchange and option contracts, and a charge of $1.8 million for the write-off of an equity investment, partially offset by a gain of $13.4 million on the cash surrender value of life insurance contracts related to our deferred compensation plan driven by current year stock market gains. In fiscal 2020, this account primarily consisted of net foreign currency exchange gains of $3.2 million primarily due to hedging activities, a net gain of $3.2 million to reflect an adjustment to remeasure our initial investment in SSI in connection with purchase accounting and a gain of $2.3 million on the cash surrender value of life insurance contracts related to our deferred compensation plan. Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes. ** Percentage not meaningful Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2021 was a provision of 20.8%. The effective tax rate was lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate primarily due to the impact of the U.S. deduction for foreign derived intangible income and the geographic mix of income earned by our international subsidiaries, which are taxed at rates lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate, partially offset by state income taxes and the global intangible low-taxed income inclusion. Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2020 was a benefit of 10.8%. The effective tax rate differed from the U.S. statutory tax rate primarily due to a $313.4 million discrete net tax benefit related to the sale of the Medical Aesthetics business, the impact of the U.S. deduction for foreign derived intangible income, federal and state tax credits, and the geographic mix of income earned by our international subsidiaries, which are taxed at rates lower than the U.S. statutory tax rate, partially offset by state income taxes, reserves for uncertain tax positions net of releases resulting from statute of limitations expirations and favorable audit settlements, the global intangible low-taxed income inclusion, and unbenefited foreign losses. Segment Results of Operations We operate in four segments: Diagnostics, Breast Health, GYN Surgical, and Skeletal Health. Until December 30, 2019, our product portfolio included aesthetic and medical treatments systems sold by our former Medical Aesthetic business. We completed the disposition of the Medical Aesthetics segment on December 30, 2019 (the first day of the second quarter of fiscal 2020). The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in the footnotes to the accompanying consolidated financial statements contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report. We measure segment performance based on total revenues and operating income (loss). Revenues from product sales of each of these segments are described in further detail above. The discussion that follows is a summary analysis of total revenues and the primary changes in operating income or loss by segment. Diagnostics 42 Diagnostics revenues increased in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020 primarily due to the increase in product revenues from the recovery of our core product lines, current year acquisitions and sales of our SARS-CoV-2 assays discussed above, an increase in royalty revenue from Grifols related to licensing our intellectual property to our COVID-19 assays for their sale in Spain, and the inclusion of laboratory testing service revenue from Biotheranostics. Operating income for this business segment increased in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020 primarily due to an increase in gross profit from higher revenues partially offset by an increase in operating expenses. Gross margin was 73.2% in the current year compared to 65.2% in the prior year. The increase in gross margin was primarily due to increased sales of our SARS-CoV-2 assays, higher overall production of our Aptima assays and ThinPrep Pap Test reducing fixed overhead on a unit basis and increased royalty revenue from Grifols, partially offset by an increase in freight costs to ship product internationally, an increase in inventory reserves, higher field service costs, an increase in amortization of placed Panther instruments as the installed base has increased significantly year over year, and higher intangible asset amortization expense from the Mobidiag, Diagenode and Biotheranostics acquisitions in the current year. Operating expenses increased in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020 primarily due to higher compensation and benefits driven by salary, commissions and our deferred compensation plan, an increase in headcount in the operations, service and sales departments, an increase in R&D project spend, higher acquisition transaction expenses, which included $11.5 million for a transfer tax related to the Mobidiag acquisition, higher bad debt expense, an increase in marketing initiatives, a lower BARDA credit of $3.9 million in the current year, and additional expenses from the Mobidiag, Biotheranostics and Diagenode acquisitions. These increases were partially offset by lower bonus expense. Breast Health Breast Health revenues increased in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020 primarily due to an increase of $143.0 million in product revenue as discussed above and an increase of $57.3 million in service and other revenue. The increase in service revenue is primarily due to an increase in service contract revenue as the Breast Health business continued to convert a high percentage of our installed base of digital mammography systems to service contracts upon expiration of the warranty period, the addition of service contracts from the NXC Imaging acquisition and an increase in spare parts revenue. Operating income for this business segment increased in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020 primarily due to an increase in gross profit from higher revenues with higher gross margin, partially offset by an increase in operating expenses. Gross margin was 56.4% in the current year compared to 52.8% in the prior year. The increase in gross profit was primarily due to the increase in product revenue and service revenue discussed above and lower costs related to the step-up in fair value of inventory of $2.3 million for the Somatex acquisition in the current year compared to $6.8 million for the SSI and Health Beacons acquisitions in the prior year. In addition, gross profit in the prior year was impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic, which resulted in decreased sales volume across the majority of our product lines, period costs for temporary facility shut-downs and reduced manufacturing utilization and higher inventory reserves. Operating expenses increased in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020 due to due to higher compensation and benefits driven by higher commissions from increased sales and our deferred compensation plan, a $7.0 million charge related to the purchase of intellectual property, an increase in R&D project spend, an increase in consulting spend, an increase in marketing initiatives and the prior year included a benefit from the reversal of acquisition related accruals and a holdback. These increases were partially offset by lower bonus expense, lower stock compensation expense, a decrease in trade show expenses and lower bad debt expense. GYN Surgical 43 GYN Surgical revenues increased in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020 due to the increase in product revenues discussed above. Operating income for this business segment increased in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020 primarily due to an increase in gross profit from higher revenues with higher gross margin, partially offset by an increase in operating expenses. Gross margin was 61.0% in the current year, compared to 59.1% in the prior year. The increase in gross margin was primarily due to the increased sales volume in the current year as the GYN Surgical business recovered to pre-COVID levels and the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the prior year, which resulted in decreased sales volume, period costs for temporary facility shut-downs and reduced manufacturing utilization. The increase in gross margin was partially offset by an unfavorable product mix of lower margin products, including our Fluent Fluid Management system and Acessa ProVu systems, higher intangible asset amortization expense from the Acessa acquisition, and an increase in inventory reserves. Operating expenses increased in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020 primarily due to the inclusion of Acessa expenses of $15.0 million, higher compensation and benefits driven by our deferred compensation plan and commissions from the increase in sales, increased spending on research and development projects, higher travel, marketing initiative spend and consulting, and an increase in bad debt expense partially offset by a gain of $6.7 million related to the fair value adjustments for contingent consideration related to the Acessa acquisition. Skeletal Health Skeletal Health revenues increased in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020 primarily due to the increase in product revenues discussed above. Operating loss increased in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020 primarily due to an increase in operating expenses, partially offset by an increase in gross profit from higher revenues. Gross margin decreased to 31.4% in the current year compared to 33.2% in the prior year primarily due to higher service costs, partially offset by higher sales volume of our products and higher inventory reserves in the prior year. Operating expenses increased in fiscal 2021 compared to fiscal 2020 primarily due to higher compensation and benefits and an increase in trade show expenses. Fiscal Year Ended September 26, 2020 Compared to Fiscal Year Ended September 28, 2019 Discussions of year-to-year comparisons between fiscal 2020 and 2019 that are not included in this Form 10-K can be found in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in Part II, Item 7 of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 26, 2020. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES At September 25, 2021, we had working capital of $1,841.9 million, and our cash and cash equivalents totaled $1,170.3 million. Our cash and cash equivalents balance increased by $469.3 million during fiscal 2021 principally due to cash generated from operating activities partially offset by cash used in financing and investing activities related to acquisitions of businesses, repurchases of common stock, net repayments of debt and capital expenditures. In fiscal 2021, our operating activities provided us with $2,330.4 million of cash, primarily due to net income of $1,869.7 million, non-cash charges for depreciation and amortization aggregating $406.9 million, stock-based compensation expense of 44 $65.0 million and a debt extinguishment loss of $21.6 million. These adjustments to net income were partially offset by a decrease in net deferred tax liabilities of $70.1 million primarily due to the amortization of intangible assets. Cash provided by operations included a net cash inflow of $13.0 million from changes in our operating assets and liabilities. Changes in our operating assets and liabilities were driven primarily by a decrease in accounts receivable of $110.9 million primarily due to payments received from customers that had large balances from COVID-19 assay sales in our Diagnostics division and lower revenues in fourth quarter of fiscal 2021 compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020, an increase in accounts payable of $20.4 million primarily due to the timing of these payments, and an increase in deferred revenue of $14.0 million primarily due to an increase in service contracts as the Breast Health business continues to convert a high percentage of its installed base of digital mammography systems to service contracts upon expiration of the warranty period, and a decrease in prepaid income taxes of $13.0 million. These cash inflows were partially offset by an increase in inventory of $84.1 million primarily due to the increase in raw materials and inventory to continue to support SARS-CoV-2 assay demand and production and an increase in prepaid expenses and other assets of $56.3 million due to an increase in technology implementation capitalized costs and licenses and the timing of value added tax receivables. In fiscal 2021, our investing activities used cash of $1,329.6 million primarily related to net cash paid for our fiscal 2021 acquisitions of Biotheranostics, Diagenode, Somatex, and Mobidiag of $1,164.7 million and net capital expenditures of $156.2 million, which primarily consisted of purchases of manufacturing equipment primarily to expand the capacity of our molecular diagnostics manufacturing facilities and the placement of equipment under customer usage agreements. In fiscal 2021, our financing activities used cash of $529.8 million, primarily related to $970.8 million for the repayment of our 2025 Senior Notes, $409.8 million for repurchases of our common stock, $250.0 million for the repayment of amounts borrowed under our revolving credit line, $75.0 million for scheduled principal payments under our 2018 Credit Agreement, $71.5 million for the net repayment of amounts borrowed under our accounts receivable securitization agreement and payments of $47.5 million for employee-related taxes withheld for the net share settlement of vested restricted stock units. Partially offsetting these uses of cash were net proceeds of $936.3 million under our 2029 Senior Notes, $320.0 million of proceeds under the accounts receivable securitization agreement that we restarted in the third quarter of 2021 to partially fund the Mobidiag acquisition, and $51.3 million from our equity plans, primarily from the exercise of stock options. Debt We had total recorded debt outstanding of $3.0 billion at September 25, 2021, which was comprised of our term loan under our then existing Credit Agreement of $1.38 billion (principal of $1.39 billion), 2029 Senior Notes of $934.5 million (principal of $950.0 million), and 2028 Senior Notes of $395.4 million (principal of $400.0 million), Securitization Program of $248.5 million, and $64.5 million in debt acquired in the Mobidiag acquisition. 2021 Credit Agreement (Subsequent Event) On September 27, 2021, we refinanced our existing term loan and revolving credit facility with Bank of America, N.A. in its capacity as Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender and L/C Issuer, and certain other lenders from time to time party thereto (the "2018 Credit Agreement") by entering into Refinancing Amendment No. 2 dated as of September 27, 2021, to the Amended and Restated Credit and Guaranty Agreement, dated as of October 3, 2017, as amended(the "2021 Credit Agreement"). Substantially all of the proceeds under the 2021 Credit Agreement of $1.5 billion were used to repay the amounts outstanding under the term loan under the 2018 Credit Agreement. Borrowings under the 2021 Credit Agreement are secured by first-priority liens on, and a first priority security interest in (in each case subject to certain liens permitted under the 2021 Credit Agreement), substantially all of our U.S. assets and the assets of the Subsidiary Guarantors. These liens are subject to release during the term of the facilities if we are able to achieve certain corporate or corporate family ratings and other conditions are met. The credit facilities (the "2021 Credit Facilities") under the 2021 Credit Agreement consist of: • A $1.5 billion secured term loan ("2021 Term Loan") with a stated maturity date of September 25, 2026; and • A secured revolving credit facility (the "2021 Revolver") under which the Borrowers may borrow up to $2.0 billion, subject to certain sublimits, with a stated maturity date of September 25, 2026. As of the date of this Annual Report, there have been no borrowings under the 2021 Revolver. Borrowings under the 2021 Credit Agreement, other than Swing Line Loans (as defined in the 2021 Credit Agreement), bear interest, at our option, at the Base Rate (as defined in the 2021 Credit Agreement), at the Eurocurrency Rate (as defined in the 2021 Credit Agreement), at the Alternative Currency Daily Rate (as defined in the 2021 Credit Agreement), or at the LIBOR Daily Floating Rate (as defined in the 2021 Credit Agreement), in each case plus the Applicable Rate (as defined in the 2021 Credit Agreement). 45 The Applicable Rate in regards to the Base Rate, the Eurocurrency Rate, the Alternative Currency Daily Rate, the Alternative Currency Term Rate and the LIBOR Daily Floating Rate is subject to change depending on the Total Net Leverage Ratio (as defined in the 2021 Credit Agreement). The borrowings of the Term Loan under the 2021 Credit Facilities initially bear interest at an annual rate equal to the Eurocurrency Rate for a one month interest period plus an Applicable Rate equal to 1.00%. We are also required to pay a quarterly commitment fee calculated on a daily basis equal to the Applicable Rate as of such day multiplied by the undrawn committed amount available under the Revolver (taking into account any outstanding amounts under the LS Sublimit). This commitment fee is initially 0.15% per annum for the Revolver. We are required to make scheduled principal payments under the 2021 Term Loan in increasing amounts ranging from $3.750 million per three-month period commencing with the three-month period ending on December 29, 2022 to $18.750 million per three-month period commencing with the three month period ending on December 26, 2025. The remaining scheduled balance of $1.335 billion (or such lesser aggregate principal amount of Term Loans then outstanding) on the 2021 Term Loan and any amounts outstanding under the 2021 Revolver are due at maturity. In addition, subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the 2021 Credit Agreement, we may be required to make certain mandatory prepayments from the net proceeds of specified types of asset sales (subject to certain reinvestment rights), debt issuances and insurance recoveries (subject to certain reinvestment rights). Certain of the mandatory prepayments are subject to reduction or elimination of certain financial covenants are met. These mandatory prepayments are required to be applied first to the 2021 Term Loan, second to any outstanding amount under any Swing Line Loans (as defined in the 2021 Credit Agreement), third to the 2021 Revolver, fourth to prepay any outstanding reimbursement obligations with respect to Letters of Credit (as defined in the 2021 Credit Agreement) and fifth to cash collateralize any Letters of Credit. Subject to certain limitations, we may voluntarily prepay any of the 2021 Credit Facilities without premium or penalty. The 2021 Credit Agreement contains affirmative and negative covenants customarily applicable to senior secured credit facilities, including covenants restricting our ability subject to negotiated exceptions, to incur additional indebtedness and grant additional liens on our assets, engage in mergers or acquisitions or dispose of assets, enter into sale-leaseback transactions, pay dividends or make other distributions, voluntarily prepay other indebtedness, enter into transactions with affiliated persons, make investments, and change the nature of our business. In additions, the 2021 Credit Agreement requires the Borrowers to maintain certain financial ratios. The 2021 Credit Agreement also contains customary representations and warranties and events of default, including payments defaults, breach of representations and warranties, covenant defaults, cross defaults and an event of default upon a change of control of the company. 2028 Senior Notes As of September 25, 2021, the total aggregate principal balance of the 2028 Senior Notes was $400.0 million. The 2028 Senior Notes are general senior unsecured obligations of the Company and are guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by certain of the Company's domestic subsidiaries. The 2028 Senior Notes were issued pursuant to an indenture, dated as of January 19, 2018, among the Company, the guarantors and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee. The 2028 Senior Notes mature on February 1, 2028 and bear interest at the rate of 4.625% per year, payable semi-annually on February 1 and August 1 of each year, commencing on August 1, 2018. We may redeem the 2028 Senior Notes at any time prior to February 1, 2023 at a price equal to 100% of the aggregate principal amount so redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the redemption date and a make-whole premium set forth in the Indenture. We also have the option to redeem the 2028 Senior Notes on or after: February 1, 2023 through February 1, 2024 at 102.312% of par; February 1, 2024 through February 1, 2025 at 101.541% of par; February 1, 2025 through February 1, 2026 at 100.770% of par; and February 1, 2026 and thereafter at 100% of par. In addition, if there is a change of control coupled with a decline in ratings, as provided in the indenture, we will be required to make an offer to purchase each holder’s 2028 Senior Notes at a price equal to 101% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the repurchase date. 2029 Senior Notes 46 On September 28, 2020, we completed a private placement of our 2029 Senior Notes. The total aggregate principal balance of the 2029 Senior Notes is $950.0 million. The 2029 Senior Notes are general senior unsecured obligations of the Company and are guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by certain of the Company's domestic subsidiaries. The 2029 Senior Notes were issued pursuant to an indenture, dated as of September 28, 2020, among the Company, the guarantors and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee. The 2029 Senior Notes mature on February 15, 2029 and bear interest at the rate of 3.250% per year, payable semi-annually on February 15 and August 15 of each year, commencing on February 15, 2021. We may redeem the 2029 Senior Notes at any time prior to September 28, 2023 at a price equal to 100% of the aggregate principal amount so redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the redemption date and a make-whole premium set forth in the Indenture. We may also redeem up to 40% of the aggregate principal amount of the 2029 Senior Notes with the net cash proceeds of certain equity offerings at any time and from time to time before September 28, 2023, at a redemption price equal to 103.250% of the aggregate principal amount so redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the redemption date. We also have the option to redeem the 2029 Senior Notes on or after: September 28, 2023 through September 27, 2024 at 101.625% of par; September 28, 2024 through September 27, 2025 at 100.813% of par; and September 28, 2025 and thereafter at 100% of par. In addition, if there is a change of control coupled with a decline in ratings, as provided in the indenture, we will be required to make an offer to purchase each holder’s 2029 Senior Notes at a price equal to 101% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the repurchase date. Accounts Receivable Securitization Program In response to the market uncertainties created by the COVID-19 pandemic, on March 26, 2020, we paid off the total amount outstanding of $250.0 million previously borrowed under our then existing accounts receivable securitization program. On April 13, 2020, we amended the Credit and Security agreement with the lenders, temporarily suspending the ability to borrow and the need to comply with covenants for up to a year. On June 11, 2021, we amended and restated the Credit and Security agreement to restart the Securitization Program (the "Securitization Program") and increase the maximum borrowing amount to $320.0 million. Under the terms of the Securitization Program, we and certain of our wholly-owned subsidiaries sell our customer receivables to a bankruptcy remote special purpose entity, which is wholly-owned by us. The amount that the special purpose entity may borrow at a given point in time is determined based on the amount of qualifying receivables that are present in the special purpose entity at such point in time. The assets of the special purpose entity secure the amounts borrowed and cannot be used to pay our other debts or liabilities. The Securitization Program provides for annual renewals. Loans outstanding under the Securitization Program bear interest at LIBOR plus an applicable margin for defined tranches. As of September 25, 2021, there was $248.5 million outstanding under this program. The weighted average interest rate under the Securitization Program was 0.8% as of September 25, 2021. Fiscal 2022 Acquisition On October 14, 2021, we announced that we entered into an agreement to acquire Bolder Surgical, Inc., or Bolder, a privately held, U.S.-based company that provides advanced energy vessel sealing surgical devices, for approximately $160.0 million, subject to working capital and other customary closing adjustments. The closing is subject to certain regulatory approvals, but we expect the acquisition to close before the end of calendar 2021. The acquisition will add laparoscopic vessel sealing, dividing and dissecting devices to the GYN Surgical portfolio and also will enable Hologic to expand the use of Bolder’s devices to OB/GYN specialists. Contingent Consideration Earn-Out Payments In connection with certain of our acquisitions, we have incurred the obligation to make contingent earnout payments tied to performance criteria, principally revenue growth of the acquired business over a specified period. In addition, contractual provisions relating to these contingent earn-out obligations may result in the risk of litigation relating to the calculation of the amount due or our operation of the acquired business. Such litigation could be expensive and divert management attention and resources. Our obligation to make contingent payments may also result in significant operating expenses. Our contingent consideration arrangements are recorded as either additional purchase price or compensation expense if continuing employment is required to receive such payments. Pursuant to ASC 805, Business Combinations , contingent consideration that is deemed to be part of the purchase price is recorded as a liability based on the estimated fair value of the consideration we expect to pay to the former shareholders of the acquired business as of the acquisition date. This liability is re-measured each reporting period with the change in fair value recorded through a separate line item within our Consolidated Statements of Operations. Increases or decreases in the fair value of contingent consideration liabilities can result from changes in discount rates, changes in the timing, probabilities and amount of revenue estimates, and accretion of the liability for the passage of time. 47 Currently, our primary contingent consideration liability is from our acquisition of Acessa Health. We have an obligation to the former Acessa Health shareholders to make contingent payments based on a multiple of annual incremental revenue growth over a three year period ending annually in December. There is no maximum earnout. Pursuant to ASC 805, the contingent consideration was deemed to be part of the purchase price and we recorded our estimate of the fair value of the contingent consideration liability utilizing the Monte Carlo simulation based on future revenue projections of the business, comparable company revenue growth rates, implied volatility and applying a risk adjusted discount rate. At September 25, 2021 this liability was recorded at $75.1 million and no contingent earnout payments have been earned or made. Stock Repurchase Program On December 9, 2020, the Board of Directors authorized a new five-year share repurchase plan, to repurchase up to $1.0 billion of our outstanding common stock. The prior plan was terminated in connection with this new authorization. As of September 25, 2021, $691.6 million remained available under this authorization. Subsequent to September 25, 2021, we repurchased 2.3 million shares of our common stock for $167.0 million. Future Liquidity Considerations We expect to continue to review and evaluate potential strategic transactions (both acquisitions and dispositions) and alliances that we believe will complement or enhance our business and stockholder value. Subject to the Risk Factors set forth in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report and the general disclaimers set forth in our Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements at the outset of this Annual Report, we believe that our cash and cash equivalents, cash flows from operations, the cash available under our 2021 Revolver and our Securitization Program will provide us with sufficient funds in order to fund our expected normal operations and debt payments over the next twelve months. Our longer-term liquidity is contingent upon future operating performance. We may also require additional capital in the future to fund capital expenditures, repayment of debt, acquisitions including contingent consideration payments, strategic transactions or other investments. As described above, we have significant indebtedness outstanding under our 2021 Credit Agreement, 2028 Senior Notes, 2029 Senior Notes and Securitization Program. These capital requirements could be substantial. Our operating performance may also be affected by matters discussed under the above-referenced Risk Factors set forth elsewhere in this report. These risks, trends and uncertainties may also adversely affect our long-term liquidity. Legal Contingencies We are currently involved in certain legal proceedings and claims. In connection with these legal proceedings and claims, management periodically reviews estimates of potential costs to be incurred by us in connection with the adjudication or settlement, if any, of these proceedings. These estimates are based on an analysis of potential litigation outcomes and settlement strategies. In accordance with ASC 450, Contingencies , loss contingencies are accrued if, in the opinion of management, an adverse outcome is probable and such outcome can be reasonably estimated. It is possible that future results for any particular quarter or annual period may be materially affected by changes in our assumptions or the effectiveness of our strategies relating to these proceedings. Guarantees and Other Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have guarantees or other off-balance sheet financing arrangements, including variable interest entities, of a magnitude that we believe could have a material impact on our financial condition or liquidity. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition for multiple element arrangements, allowance for doubtful accounts, reserves for excess and obsolete inventories, valuations, purchase price allocations and contingent consideration related to business combinations, expected future cash flows including growth rates, discount rates, terminal values and other assumptions used to evaluate the recoverability of long-lived assets and goodwill, estimated fair values of intangible assets and goodwill, amortization methods and periods, warranty reserves, certain accrued expenses, restructuring and other related charges, stock-based compensation, contingent liabilities, tax reserves and recoverability of our net deferred tax assets and related valuation allowances. We base our estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ from these estimates if past experience or other assumptions do not turn out to be substantially accurate. Any differences may have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations. 48 The following is a discussion of what we believe to be the more significant critical accounting policies and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements. Inventory Our inventories include material, labor and overhead, and are stated at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out) or market. As a developer and manufacturer of high technology medical equipment and diagnostic test kits, we may be exposed to a number of economic and industry factors that could result in portions of our inventory becoming either obsolete or in excess of anticipated usage. Our policy is to establish inventory reserves when conditions exist that suggest that our inventory may be in excess of anticipated demand or is obsolete based upon our assumptions about future demand for our products and market conditions. Although considerable effort is made to ensure the accuracy of our forecasts of future product demand, any significant unanticipated changes in demand or expected usage could have a significant negative impact on the value of our inventory and our operating results. Business Combinations We record tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations under the purchase method of accounting. Amounts paid for each acquisition are allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their fair values at the dates of acquisition. Contingent consideration, which is not deemed to be linked to continuing employment, is recorded at fair value as measured on the date of acquisition using an appropriate valuation model, such as the Monte Carlo simulation model. The value recorded is based on estimates of future financial projections under various potential scenarios, in which the model runs many simulations based on comparable companies' growth rates and their implied volatility. These cash flow projections are discounted with a risk adjusted rate. Each quarter until such contingent amounts are earned, the fair value of the liability is remeasured at each reporting period and adjusted as a component of operating expenses based on changes to the underlying assumptions. The estimates used to determine the fair value of the contingent consideration liability are subject to significant judgment, specifically projected revenues, and given the inherent uncertainties in making these estimates, actual results are likely to differ from the amounts originally recorded and could be materially different. The fair value of identifiable intangible assets is based on detailed valuations that use information and assumptions provided by management, which consider management’s best estimate of inputs and assumptions that a market participant would use. We allocate any excess purchase price over the fair value of the net tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed to goodwill. We generally use the income approach in which cash flow projections on an after-tax basis are discounted using a risk adjusted rate to determine the estimated fair value of certain identifiable intangible assets including developed technology, in-process research and development projects, customer relationships, and trade names. The significant assumptions used to estimate the fair value of intangible assets include discount rates and certain assumptions that form the basis of the forecasted results specifically revenue growth rates. These significant assumptions are forward looking and could be affected by future economic and market conditions. With respect to property, plant and equipment, we estimate the fair value of these assets using a combination of the cost and market approaches, depending on the component. Generally, we apply the cost or income approach as the primary methods in estimating the fair value of land and buildings as the market approach is less reliable based on potential significant differences between the property being valued and the potentially comparable sales of similar properties. Goodwill We test goodwill at the reporting unit level for impairment on an annual basis and between annual tests if events and circumstances indicate it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value. Events that could indicate impairment and trigger an interim impairment assessment include, but are not limited to current economic and market conditions, including a decline in market capitalization, a significant adverse change in legal factors, business climate, operational performance of the business or key personnel, and an adverse action or assessment by a regulator. Our annual impairment test date is the first day of our fiscal fourth quarter. In performing the test, we either use the qualitative assessment permitted by ASC 350, Intangibles — Goodwill and Other, or the single step quantitative approach prescribed under ASC 350 including amendments under ASU 2017-04. Under the qualitative approach we consider a number of factors, including the amount by which the previous quantitative test's fair value exceeded the carrying value of the reporting units, the forecasts in our then-current strategic plan compared to the forecasts in the previous quantitative test, an evaluation of discount rates, long-term growth rates including the terminal year rate, if tax rates would have significantly changed, an evaluation of current economic factors for both the worldwide economy and specifically the medical device industry, and any significant changes in customer and supplier relationships. We weigh these factors to determine if it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying value. If after 49 performing a qualitative assessment, indicators are present, or we identify factors that cause us to believe it is appropriate to perform a more precise calculation of fair value, we would move beyond the qualitative assessment and perform a quantitative impairment test. Under the quantitative impairment test, we perform a comparison of the reporting unit’s carrying value to its fair value. We consider a number of factors to determine the fair value of a reporting unit, including an independent valuation to conduct this test. The valuation is based upon expected future discounted operating cash flows of the reporting unit as well as analysis of recent sales and ratio comparisons of similar companies. We base the discount rate on the weighted average cost of capital, or WACC, of market participants. If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, we apply the single step approach under ASU 2017-04. As a result of this simplified approach the goodwill impairment is calculated as the amount by which the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value to the extent of the goodwill balance. We conducted our fiscal 2021 annual impairment test on the first day of the fourth quarter and utilized the quantitative approach. We utilized discounted cash flows, or DCF, and market approaches to estimate the fair value of our reporting units as of June 27, 2021 and ultimately used the fair value determined by the DCF in making our impairment test conclusions. We believe we used reasonable estimates and assumptions about future revenue, cost projections, cash flows, market multiples and discount rates as of the measurement date. As a result of completing this analysis, all of our reporting units had fair values exceeding their carrying values. At September 25, 2021, we believe that our reporting units, with goodwill aggregating $3.3 billion, were not at risk of failing the goodwill impairment test based on its current forecasts and qualitative assessment. Since the fair value of our reporting units was determined by use of the DCF, and the key assumptions that drive the fair value in this model are the WACC, terminal values, growth rates, and the amount and timing of expected future cash flows, significant judgment is applied in determining fair value. If the current economic environment were to deteriorate, this would likely result in a higher WACC because market participants would require a higher rate of return. In the DCF as the WACC increases, the fair value decreases. The other significant factor in the DCF is our projected financial information (i.e., amount and timing of expected future cash flows and growth rates) and if these assumptions were to be adversely impacted, this could result in a reduction of the fair value of a reporting unit. Intangible Assets Intangible assets are initially recorded at fair value and stated net of accumulated amortization and impairments. We amortize intangible assets that have finite lives using either the straight-line method, or if reliably determinable, based on the pattern in which the economic benefit of the asset is expected to be utilized. We evaluate the recoverability of our definite lived intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances or business conditions indicate that the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable based on expectations of future undiscounted cash flows for each asset group. If the carrying value of an asset or asset group exceeds its undiscounted cash flows, the Company estimates the fair value of the assets, generally utilizing a discounted cash flow analysis based on the present value of estimated future cash flows to be generated by the assets using a risk-adjusted discount rate. To estimate the fair value of the assets, the Company uses market participant assumptions pursuant to ASC 820, Fair Value Measurements . Revenue Recognition We generate revenue from the sale of our products, primarily medical imaging systems and diagnostic and surgical disposable products, and related services, which are primarily support and maintenance services on our medical imaging systems. See Note 3 for further discussion of revenue recognition. We consider revenue to be earned when all of the following criteria are met: we have a contract with a customer that creates enforceable rights and obligations; promised products or services are identified; the transaction price, or the amount that we expect to receive, including an estimate of uncertain amounts subject to a constraint to ensure revenue is not recognized in an amount that would result in a significant reversal upon resolution of the uncertainty, is determinable; and we have transferred control of the promised items to the customer. A performance obligation is a promise in a contract to transfer a distinct good or service to the customer and is the unit of account in the contract. The transaction price for the contract is measured as the amount of consideration we expect to receive in exchange for the goods and services expected to be transferred. A contract's transaction price is allocated to each distinct performance obligation and recognized as revenue when, or as, control of the distinct good or service is transferred. Transfer of control for our products is generally at shipment or delivery, depending on contractual terms, but occurs when title and risk of loss transfers to the customer which represents the point in time when the customer obtains the use of and substantially all of the remaining benefit of the product. As such, the performance obligation related to product sales is satisfied at a point in time. Revenue from support and maintenance contracts and extended warranties are recognized over time based on the contract term, which represents a faithful depiction of the transfer of goods and services 50 given the stand-ready nature of the performance obligations. Service revenue related to professional services for installation, training and repairs is recognized as the services are performed based on the specific nature of the service. We recognize receivables when we have an unconditional right to payment, which represents the amount we expect to collect in a transaction and is most often equal to the transaction price in the contract. Payment terms are typically 30 days in the U.S. but may be longer in international markets. We treat shipping and handling costs performed after a customer obtains control of the good as a fulfillment cost and record these costs within costs of product revenue when the corresponding revenue is recognized. Some of our contracts have multiple performance obligations. For contracts with multiple performance obligations, we are required to allocate the transaction price to each performance obligation using our best estimate of the standalone selling price of each distinct good or service in the contract. We determine the best estimate of standalone selling price using average selling prices over 3- to 12-month periods of data depending on the products or nature of the services coupled with current market considerations. If the product or service does not have a history of sales or if sales volume is not sufficient, we rely on prices set by our pricing committees or applicable marketing department adjusted for expected discounts. We also place instruments (or equipment) at customer sites but retain title to the instrument (for example, the ThinPrep Processor, ThinPrep Imaging System, and the Panther system). The customer has the right to use the instrument for a period of time, and then we recover the cost of providing the instrument through the sales of disposables, namely tests and assays in Diagnostics and handpieces in GYN Surgical. These types of agreements include an embedded operating lease for the right to use an instrument and no instrument revenue is recognized at the time of instrument delivery. We recognize a portion of the revenue allocated to the embedded lease concurrent with the sale of disposables over the term of the agreement. Income Taxes We use the asset and liability method for accounting for income taxes in accordance with ASC 740, Income Taxes . Under this method, we recognize deferred income tax assets and liabilities for the future tax consequences of differences between the financial statement carrying amount of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases, and also for operating loss and tax credit carry-forwards at each reporting period. We measure deferred tax assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates and laws applicable to the period and jurisdiction in which we expect the differences to affect taxable income. We evaluate both the positive and negative evidence that affects the realizability of net deferred tax assets and assess the need for a valuation allowance. The future benefit to be derived from our deferred tax assets is dependent upon our ability to generate sufficient future taxable income in each jurisdiction of the right type to realize the assets. We establish a valuation allowance when necessary to reduce deferred tax assets to the amounts expected to be realized. To the extent we establish or release a valuation allowance, a tax charge or benefit will be recorded as a component of the income tax provision on the statement of operations in the reporting period that such determination is made. We have recognized $228.6 million in net deferred tax liabilities at September 25, 2021 and $186.3 million at September 26, 2020. The increase was primarily due to purchase accounting related intangible additions to deferred liabilities in fiscal 2021. The liabilities primarily relate to deferred taxes associated with our acquisitions. The tax assets relate primarily to net operating loss carryforwards, accruals and reserves, stock-based compensation, and research credits. Accounting for income taxes requires a two-step approach to recognize and measure uncertain tax positions. The first step is to evaluate the tax position for recognition by determining if, based on the technical merits, it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained upon audit, including resolutions of related appeals or litigation processes, if any. The second step is to measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. We evaluate these uncertain tax positions on a quarterly basis. This evaluation is based on factors including, but not limited to, changes in facts or circumstances, changes in tax law, effectively settled issues under audit and new audit activity. Any change in these factors could result in the recognition of a tax benefit or an additional charge to the tax provision. As of September 25, 2021, we had $212.8 million in gross unrecognized tax benefits excluding interest, of which $197.0 million, if recognized, would reduce our effective tax rate. As of September 26, 2020, we had $197.1 million in gross unrecognized tax benefits excluding interest, of which $184.9 million, if recognized, would have reduced our effective tax rate. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act subjects a U.S. shareholder to tax on global intangible low-taxed income (“GILTI”) earned by certain foreign subsidiaries. The FASB Staff Q&A, Topic 740, No. 5, Accounting for Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income, states that an entity can make an accounting policy election to either recognize deferred taxes for temporary basis differences expected to reverse as GILTI in future years or to provide for the tax expense related to GILTI in the year the tax is incurred as a period expense only. The Company accounts for GILTI in the year the tax is incurred as a period cost. In the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. Judgment is required in determining our worldwide income tax provision. In our opinion, we have made adequate 51 provisions for income taxes for all years subject to audit. While we consider our estimates reasonable, no assurance can be given that the final tax outcome will not be different than amounts reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. If our assumptions are incorrect, the differences could have a material impact on our income tax provision and operating results in the period in which such determination is made. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 15 of this Annual Report.