********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

You should carefully consider the following risks and other information in this Form 10-K in evaluating Hewlett Packard Enterprise. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. The following risk factors should be read in conjunction with Part II, Item 7, “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation” and the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K. Risk Factors Summary The following is a summary of the principal risks that could adversely affect our business, operations, and financial results. Business and Operational Risks • If we cannot successfully execute our go-to-market strategy, including offering our entire portfolio as-a-Service, our business, operating results, and financial performance may suffer. • We depend on third-party suppliers, and our financial results could suffer if we fail to manage our supplier relationships properly. • System security risks, data protection incidents, cyberattacks and systems integration issues could disrupt our internal operations or IT services provided to customers, and any such disruption could reduce our revenue, increase our expenses, damage our reputation, and adversely affect our stock price. • Business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. • Failure to complete the Merger with Juniper Networks may adversely affect our business and our stock price. • Failure to realize the benefits expected from the Merger with Juniper Networks could adversely affect our business or our stock price. • Any failure by us to identify, manage, and complete acquisitions and subsequent integrations, divestitures, and other significant transactions successfully could harm our financial results, business and prospects. • If we cannot continue to produce quality products and services, our reputation, business, and financial performance may suffer. • In order to be successful, we must attract, retain, train, motivate, develop, and transition key employees, and failure to do so could seriously harm us. • If we fail to manage the distribution of our products and services properly, our business and financial performance could suffer. • Issues in the development and use of artificial intelligence may result in reputational harm, liability or impact to our results of operations. • Changes in the macroeconomic environment have, at times, impacted and may in the future negatively impact our results of operations. • Failure to meet responsible and sustainable business expectations or standards or achieve our Living Progress goals could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, or stock price. • Risks arising from climate change and the transition to a lower-carbon economy may impact our business. Industry Risks • We operate in an intensely competitive industry, and competitive pressures could harm our business and financial performance. International Risks • Due to the international nature of our business, political or economic changes and the laws and regulatory regimes applying to international transactions or other factors could harm our future revenue, costs and expenses, and financial condition. • We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Intellectual Property Risks 16 • Our financial performance may suffer if we cannot continue to develop, license, or enforce the intellectual property rights on which our businesses depend. • Our products and services depend in part on intellectual property and technology licensed from third parties. • Third-party claims of intellectual property infringement, including patent infringement, are commonplace in our industry and successful third-party claims may limit or disrupt our ability to sell our products and services. Financial Risks • Adverse developments affecting our liquidity, capital position, borrowing costs, and access to capital markets could adversely impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations or those of the third parties with whom we do business. • Our debt obligations may adversely affect our business and our ability to meet our obligations and pay dividends. • The revenue and profitability of our operations have historically varied, which makes our future financial results less predictable. • Our uneven sales cycle and supply chain disruptions make planning and inventory management difficult and future financial results less predictable. • We make estimates and assumptions in connection with the preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements and any changes to those estimates and assumptions could adversely affect our results of operations. • Declaration, payment and amounts of dividends, if any, to holders of our shares will be uncertain. Regulatory and Government Risks • Our business is subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that could result in costs or other sanctions that adversely affect our business and results of operations. • Contracts with federal, state, provincial, and local governments are subject to a number of challenges and risks that may adversely impact our business. • Unanticipated changes in our tax provisions, the adoption of new tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities could affect our financial performance. Risks Related to Prior Separations • The stock distribution in either or both of the completed separations of our former Enterprise Services business and our former Software segment could result in significant tax liability, and DXC Technology Company or Micro Focus International plc (as applicable) may in certain cases be obligated to indemnify us for any such tax liability imposed on us. • We continue to face a number of risks related to our separation from HP Inc., our former parent, including those associated with ongoing indemnification obligations, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, and shared use of certain intellectual property rights, which could in the future adversely impact our reputation. General Risks • Our stock price has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate, which may make future prices of our stock difficult to predict. For a more complete discussion of the material risks facing our business, see below. Business and Operational Risks If we cannot successfully execute our go-to-market strategy, including offering our entire portfolio as-a-Service, our business, operating results, and financial performance may suffer. Our long-term strategy is focused on leveraging our portfolio of hardware, software, and services as we deliver global edge-to-cloud platform as-a-service to help customers accelerate outcomes by unlocking value from all of their data, everywhere. We provide our entire portfolio through a range of subscription and consumption-based, pay-per-use, and aaS offerings. We will also continue to provide our hardware and software in a capital expenditure and license-based model, giving our customers choices in consuming HPE products and services. Furthermore, subject to our anticipated consummation of the acquisition of Juniper Networks, Inc. (“Juniper Networks”) (the “Merger”), we will seek to offer secure, unified cloud- and AI-native networking to enhance innovation across edge to cloud. To successfully execute on these strategic pillars, we must continue to improve cost structures, align sales coverage with strategic goals, improve channel execution, and strengthen our capabilities in our areas of strategic focus, while continuing to pursue new product innovation that builds on our strategic 17 capabilities in areas such as edge computing, hybrid cloud, artificial intelligence, data center networking, network security, and high-performance compute. We must make sufficient long-term investments in strategic growth areas, such as developing, obtaining, and protecting appropriate intellectual property, and commit or transition significant R&D and other resources before knowing whether our projections will reasonably reflect customer demand for our solutions. Should such efforts fail to produce actionable insights, or our offerings not perform as designed or promised, our business results and financial condition may be adversely affected. Furthermore, such incremental capital requirements may negatively impact cash flows in the near term and may require us to dedicate additional resources, including sales and marketing costs. The process of improving our HPE GreenLake cloud offerings, enhancing existing hardware, software, and cloud-based solutions, and developing and improving the systems necessary for new and evolving data-intensive artificial intelligence-based workloads are all complex, costly, and uncertain, and any failure by us to anticipate customers’ changing needs and emerging technological trends accurately, to invest sufficiently in strategic growth areas, or to otherwise successfully execute this strategy could significantly harm our market share, results of operations, and financial performance. Having developed a cloud platform product in HPE GreenLake and the hardware capabilities to support artificial intelligence computing, we must be able to continue integrating new features that are relevant to our customers and to scale quickly, while also managing costs and preserving margins, which means accurately forecasting volumes, mixes of products, and configurations that meet customer requirements, which we may not succeed at doing. These offerings face competition from peer companies with their own cloud platform and artificial intelligence computing offerings, and any delay in the development, production, or marketing of a new product, service, or solution could result in our offerings being late to reach the market, which could harm our competitive position. In addition, should we successfully consummate the Merger, the process of integrating and streamlining our offerings (including integrating Juniper Networks’ offerings with ours) or developing new solutions based on our respective technological portfolios may be complex, costly, time-consuming, and uncertain, and failure by us to successfully do so could adversely impact our future results of operations and financial performance. Furthermore, we anticipate needing to adapt our go-to-market structure from time to time with new sales and marketing approaches, to better align with aaS business models and to capture unique market opportunities, such as in hybrid cloud and artificial intelligence. Changing our go-to-market structure may affect employee compensation models and ultimately our ability to retain employees. There is no assurance that we will be able to implement these adjustments in a timely or cost-effective manner, or that we will be able to realize all or any of the expected benefits from them. Our HPE GreenLake solutions generally are multiyear agreements, which result in recurring revenue streams over the term of the arrangement. As customer demand for our aaS offerings increases, we have experienced, and will continue to experience, differences in the timing of revenue recognition between our traditional offerings (for which revenue is generally recognized at the time of delivery) and our aaS offerings (for which revenue is generally recognized ratably over the term of the arrangement). As such, our financial results and growth depend, in part, on customers continuing to purchase our services and solutions over the contract life on the agreed terms. Additionally, implementing this business model also means that our historical results, especially those from before the transition, may not be indicative of future results, which may adversely affect our ability to accurately forecast our future operating results. Our aaS offerings also could subject us to increased risk of liability related to the provision of services as well as operational, technical, legal, regulatory, or other costs. We depend on third-party suppliers, and our financial results could suffer if we fail to manage our supplier relationships properly. Our operations depend on our ability to anticipate our needs for components, products, and services, as well as our suppliers’ abilities to deliver sufficient quantities of quality components, products, and services at reasonable prices and in time for us to meet critical schedules for the delivery of our own products and services. Given the wide variety of solutions that we offer, the large and diverse distribution of our suppliers and contract manufacturers, and the long lead times required to manufacture, assemble, and deliver certain solutions, problems have, from time to time in the past, arisen, and could in the future arise, in production, planning, and inventory management that could harm our business. In addition, our ongoing efforts to optimize the efficiency of our supply chain could cause supply disruptions and be more expensive, time-consuming, and resource-intensive than expected. Furthermore, certain of our suppliers have at times decided, and may in the future decide, to discontinue conducting business with us. Other supplier problems that we have faced, and could again face in the future, include component shortages, excess supply, and contractual, relational, and labor risks, each of which is described below. • Component shortages. We have in the past experienced, and may experience again in the future, delays and shortages of certain components as a result of strong demand, supplier transitions, raw material or capacity constraints, and other problems experienced by suppliers in certain geographies and markets, resulting in insufficient supply to meet total market demand. In the past, we have experienced shortages or delays, which led to higher prices of certain components and exposure to quality issues and delivery delays, which may occur again in the future. We may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices, of acceptable quality, or at all, to build products or provide services in a timely manner in the quantities needed or according to our specifications. Accordingly, our business and financial performance could suffer from a loss of time-sensitive sales, additional freight costs incurred, or the inability to pass 18 on price increases to our customers. If we cannot adequately address supply issues, we may have to reengineer some product or service offerings, which could result in further costs and delays. • Excess supply. In order to secure components for our products or services, at times we may make advance payments to suppliers or enter into long term agreements, non-cancellable commitments, or other inventory management arrangements with vendors. In addition, we may purchase components strategically in advance of demand to take advantage of favorable pricing or to address concerns about the availability of future components. If we fail to anticipate customer demand properly, a temporary oversupply can result in excess or obsolete components (which has happened at times in the past), which has at times adversely impacted and could in the future adversely impact our business and financial performance. • Contractual terms. As a result of binding long-term price or purchase commitments with vendors, we may be obligated to purchase components or services at prices that are higher than those available in the current market and be limited in our ability to respond to changing market conditions. If we commit to purchasing components or services for prices in excess of the then-current market price, we may be at a disadvantage to competitors who have access to components or services at lower prices, our gross margin could suffer, and we could incur charges relating to inventory obsolescence. • Contingent workers. We also rely on third-party suppliers for the provision of contingent workers, and our failure to manage our use of such workers effectively could adversely affect our results of operations. We have been exposed to various legal claims relating to the status of contingent workers in the past and could face similar claims in the future. We may be subject to shortages, oversupply or fixed contractual terms relating to contingent workers. Our ability to manage the size and cost of our contingent workforce may be subject to additional constraints imposed by local laws. • Single-source suppliers. We obtain certain components from single-source suppliers due to technology, availability, price, quality, scale, or customization needs. Certain of such suppliers have, in the past decided, and may in the future decide, to discontinue manufacturing components used in our products, which may cause us to discontinue certain products, incur additional costs to redesign our products so as not to incorporate such discontinued components, or incur time and expense to find replacement suppliers. Replacing a single-source supplier has at times delayed, and could delay, production of some products as replacement suppliers may initially be unable to meet demand or be subject to other output limitations. For some components, such as customized components, alternative sources either may not exist or may be unable to produce the quantities of those components necessary to satisfy our production requirements. In addition, we sometimes purchase components from single-source suppliers under short-term agreements that contain favorable pricing and other terms but that may be unilaterally modified or terminated by the supplier with limited notice and with little or no penalty. The performance of such single-source suppliers under those agreements (and the renewal or extension of those agreements upon similar terms) may affect the quality, quantity, and price of our components. The loss of a single-source supplier, the deterioration of our relationship with a single-source supplier, or any unilateral modification to the contractual terms under which we are supplied components by a single-source supplier could adversely affect our business and financial performance. System security risks, data protection incidents, cyberattacks and systems integration issues could disrupt our internal operations or IT services provided to customers, and any such disruption could reduce our revenue, increase our expenses, damage our reputation, and adversely affect our stock price. As a leading technology firm, we are exposed to attacks from criminals, nation state actors, malicious insiders, and activist hackers (collectively, “malicious parties”) who have at times been able to circumvent or bypass our cyber security measures. Although some of these attacks have caused disruptions or exposure of information, so far, these attacks have not resulted in material negative impacts to HPE, nor have any of HPE’s consumers, customers, or employees informed HPE that these attacks resulted in material harm to them. While we investigate and remediate incidents, there can be no assurance that we will do so comprehensively or that the threat actor will not identify alternative means of intrusion or opportunities to otherwise utilize the information it accessed to adversely affect our business or results of operations. It is also possible that incidents may embolden other malicious actors to perpetrate future attacks that may result in material misappropriation, system disruptions or shutdowns, malicious alteration, or destruction of our confidential or personal information or that of third parties. Further, there has been an increase in the frequency and sophistication of such attacks, and we expect these activities to continue to increase, including malicious actors potentially leveraging AI to develop malicious code or sophisticated phishing attempts. Malicious parties may also be able to otherwise develop and deploy viruses, worms, ransomware, and other malicious software programs that attack our products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products, including within our cloud-based environments and offerings, such that we may be unable to anticipate such malicious parties’ techniques, implement adequate preventative measures, or remediate any intrusion on a timely or effective basis even if our security measures are appropriate, reasonable, and comply with applicable legal requirements. Further, cyberattacks or incidents have in the past gone, and could in the future go, undetected in our environments for a period of time, and we may discover additional impacts of earlier incidents that we believe were remediated. For example, as previously disclosed in our Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on January 24, 2024, we learned in December 2023 that, beginning in May 2023, a nation-state- 19 associated threat actor gained unauthorized access to and exfiltrated data from HPE’s cloud-based email and SharePoint environments. While this incident has been investigated and remediated with no material impact experienced by HPE to date, this may have nevertheless resulted in harm to our reputation and customer relationships (and may do so in the future, as well), and there can be no assurance that the threat actor will not utilize the information accessed to adversely affect our business or results of operations. Given our broad and diverse network environment, resource limitations, and operational constraints, we have in the past failed, and may in the future fail, to patch certain security vulnerabilities in time to prevent successful disruptions of our infrastructure or exposure of information. Malicious parties may compromise our manufacturing supply chain and the systems or networks of other third parties on whom we rely, and as such, may embed malicious software or hardware in our products, thereby compromising our customers. Geopolitical tensions or conflicts, such as the ongoing conflicts between Russia and Ukraine or in the Middle East, may heighten the risk of such cyberattacks or exacerbate system vulnerabilities, considering our continued hybrid work environment and our globally dispersed operations, employees, contractors, suppliers, developers, partners, and other third parties. In addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce, procure or integrate from third parties, including those of companies we have acquired, may contain defects in design or manufacturing, including flaws that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the system. The costs associated with cybersecurity tools and infrastructure and competition for cybersecurity and IT talent have at times limited, and may in the future limit, our ability and the ability of third parties on whom we rely to efficiently identify, eliminate, or remediate cyber or other security vulnerabilities or problems or enact changes to minimize the attack surface of our network. Furthermore, our efforts, and the efforts of third parties on whom we rely, to address these problems, at times, have not been, and may in the future not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, cessation of service, compromise of sensitive information, and loss of existing or potential customers, any of which may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions. Additional impacts from cybersecurity incidents could include reimbursement of remediation costs to our customers, suppliers, or distributors, such as liability for stolen assets or information, repairs of system damage, and incentives for continued business; lost revenue resulting from the unauthorized use of proprietary information or the failure to retain or attract business partners following an incident; increased insurance premiums; and damage to our competitiveness, stock price, and long-term shareholder value. Further, it may be difficult to determine the best way to investigate, mitigate, contain, and remediate any harm caused by a cybersecurity incident. Such efforts may not be successful, and we may make errors or fail to take necessary actions. It may take considerable time for us to investigate and evaluate the full impact of incidents, particularly for sophisticated attacks. These factors may inhibit our ability to provide prompt, full, and reliable information about the incident to our customers, partners, regulators, and the public. Additionally, to the extent we carry insurance coverage for such possibilities, we cannot be certain that any such coverage will be adequate or otherwise protect us with respect to claims, expenses, fines, penalties, business loss, data loss, litigation, regulatory actions, or other impacts arising from security breaches or incidents, or that such coverage will continue to be available on acceptable terms or at all. We manage and store various proprietary information, intellectual property, and sensitive or confidential data relating to our business. In addition, our business may process, store, and transmit customer data, including commercially sensitive, government-related, and/or personal data, subject to the European General Data Protection Regulation, United Kingdom General Data Protection Regulation, and various U.S. state and foreign data security and privacy laws, which give new data privacy rights to their residents and impose significant obligations related to the handling of personal data. Compliance with data security and privacy laws is complex and costly. With our business increasingly providing aaS offerings, malicious parties could target such services, potentially resulting in an increased risk of compromise of customer or employee data resulting in regulatory exposure. Incidents involving our cyber or physical security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure, or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information, intellectual property, or sensitive, confidential, or personal data about us, our clients, or our customers, including the potential loss or disclosure of such data as a result of fraud or other forms of deception, could expose us, our customers, or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information; result in regulatory fines, litigation, and potential liability for us; damage our brand and reputation; or otherwise harm our business. We also could lose existing or potential customers of services or other IT solutions or incur significant expenses in connection with our customers’ system failures or any actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products and services. In addition, the cost and operational consequences of managing an incident and implementing further data protection measures could be significant. Additionally, we have at times experienced, and may experience, other security issues that are not the results of any action or attack from malicious parties, whether due to employee or insider error or malfeasance, system errors or vulnerabilities in our or other parties’ systems. Portions of our IT infrastructure also have experienced, and may experience, interruptions, delays, or cessations of service or produce errors in connection with systems integration or migration work that takes place from time to time. As our IT environment continues to evolve, we have, at times, been unsuccessful, and may in the future be unsuccessful, in adopting or implementing new systems and transitioning data, which could cause business disruptions and be more expensive, time-consuming, disruptive, and resource intensive. Furthermore, our data centers depend on predictable and reliable energy and networking capabilities, the cost or availability of which could be adversely affected or 20 disrupted by a variety of factors, including but not limited to the effects of climate change. Such disruptions could adversely impact our ability to fulfill orders and respond to customer requests and interrupt other processes. Delayed sales, lower margins, or lost customers resulting from these events could reduce our revenue, increase our expenses, and adversely affect our reputation and stock price. While we seek to identify and remediate vulnerabilities in our products, services, IT systems, controls, and software that could be exploited by any malicious parties, we may not be aware of all such vulnerabilities, and we have at times failed, and may fail, to anticipate, detect, identify, and/or remediate such vulnerabilities before they are exploited or such vulnerabilities may persist after issuing security patches because system software updates may occur asynchronously across our customer base. Additionally, we have acquired and may continue to acquire companies with cybersecurity vulnerabilities or different security standards, which exposes us to related cybersecurity, operational, and financial risks. Further, as our products and services in some instances are integrated with our customers' systems and processes, even if we are successful in identifying vulnerabilities, a successful attack on us could compromise customers’ IT systems and sensitive data, despite active monitoring and development of tools designed to identify and remediate such vulnerabilities. There is no guarantee that a series of issues may not be determined to be material in the aggregate at a future date even if they may not be material individually at the time of their occurrence. Business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. Our worldwide operations and supply chain could be disrupted by natural or human-induced disasters including, but not limited to, earthquakes; tsunamis; floods; hurricanes, cyclones or typhoons; fires; other extreme weather conditions; power or water shortages; telecommunications failures; materials scarcity and price volatility; terrorist acts, civil unrest, conflicts or wars; and health epidemics or pandemics. The impacts and frequency of any of the above could be further exacerbated by climate change, particularly in countries where we operate that have limited infrastructure and disaster recovery resources. While we are predominantly self-insured to mitigate the impact of most catastrophic events, the occurrence of business disruptions could, among other impacts, harm our revenue, profitability, and financial condition; adversely affect our competitive position; increase our costs and expenses; make it difficult or impossible to provide our offerings to our customers or to receive components from our suppliers; create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain; or require substantial expenditures and recovery time in order to fully resume operations. Public health crises, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, and the measures taken in response to such events have in the past negatively impacted, and may again in the future negatively impact, our operations and workforce, as well as those of our partners, customers and suppliers. Additionally, concerns over the economic impact of such events have, from time to time, caused increased volatility in financial and other capital markets, adversely impacting our stock price, our ability to access the capital markets, and our ability to fund liquidity needs, and may do so again in the future. The negative impacts of any such events on business operations and demand for our offerings will depend on future developments and actions taken in response to such events, which may be outside our control, highly uncertain, and cannot be predicted at this time. The manufacture of product components, the final assembly of our products and other critical operations are concentrated in certain geographic locations, including the United States, Puerto Rico, Costa Rica, Czech Republic, Malaysia, Mexico, China, Taiwan, South Korea, and Singapore. We also rely on major logistics hubs, which are strategically located near manufacturing facilities in the major regions and in proximity to HPE’s distribution channels and customers. Other critical business operations and some of our suppliers are located in California and Asia, near major earthquake faults known for seismic activity. Our operations could be adversely affected if manufacturing, logistics, or other operations in these locations are disrupted for any reason, including those enumerated above, as they have been in the past by natural disasters and public health issues in the United States, Puerto Rico, and China. To the extent such disruptions adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and stock price, they may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks described in this Item 1A of Part I of this Form 10-K . Failure to complete the Merger with Juniper Networks may adversely affect our business and our stock price. In January 2024, we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Juniper Networks, Inc., a leader in AI-native networks. Consummation of the Merger is subject to the satisfaction or waiver of certain conditions, including but not limited to (i) the adoption of the Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger Agreement”), by and among Juniper Networks, HPE and Jasmine Acquisition Sub, Inc., a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of HPE (“Merger Sub”), by Juniper Networks’ stockholders (which was completed on April 2, 2024); (ii) the absence of any injunction, order or law preventing, prohibiting or making illegal the consummation of the Merger; (iii) the expiration or termination of the waiting period (or extension thereof) under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvement Act of 1976, as amended, and the receipt of all other required approvals, consents or clearances under specified foreign antitrust laws and foreign investment laws without imposition of a Burdensome Condition (as defined in the Merger Agreement); and (iv) in the case of the obligations of HPE and Merger Sub to effect the Merger, the absence of a material adverse effect with respect to Juniper Networks that is continuing as of the closing. There can be no assurance that these or other closing conditions will be satisfied in a timely manner or at all. Any delay in completing the Merger could cause us not to realize some or all of the anticipated benefits when expected, if at all. 21 If the Merger is not completed, our stock price could be impacted to the extent it reflects an assumption that we will complete the Merger, and additionally, we may suffer other consequences that could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and stock price, including incurring significant acquisition costs that we would be unable to recover, negative publicity, and a negative impression of us in the investment community. Furthermore, under certain specified circumstances, including the termination of the Merger Agreement by either us or Juniper Networks because certain required regulatory clearances are not obtained or the terms of the Merger Agreement are materially breached by us, upon termination we would be required to pay Juniper Networks a termination fee of $815 million. Failure to realize the benefits expected from the Merger with Juniper Networks could adversely affect our business or our stock price. There can be no assurance that we will realize any of the significant benefits that we expect to result from the Merger, or realize them within the anticipated timeframe. Achieving these benefits will depend, in part, on our ability to integrate Juniper Networks’ business successfully and efficiently. The challenges involved in this integration, which will be complex and time-consuming, include the following: • preserving customer and other important relationships of Juniper Networks and attracting new business and operational relationships; • integrating financial forecasting and controls, procedures and reporting cycles; • consolidating and integrating corporate, information technology, finance and administrative infrastructures; • coordinating sales and marketing efforts to effectively position our capabilities; • coordinating and integrating operations, including in countries in which we have not previously operated; and • integrating employees and related human capital management systems and benefits, maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees. If we do not successfully manage these issues and the other challenges inherent in integrating an acquired business, then we may not achieve the anticipated benefits of the Merger on our anticipated timeframe or at all, and our revenue, expenses, operating results, financial condition and stock price could be materially adversely affected. The successful integration of Juniper Networks will require significant management attention both before and after the completion of the Merger with Juniper Networks, and may divert the attention of management from our business and operational issues. Any failure by us to identify, manage, and complete acquisitions and subsequent integrations, divestitures, and other significant transactions successfully could harm our financial results, business and prospects. As part of our strategy, we may acquire businesses, divest businesses or assets, enter into strategic alliances and joint ventures, and make investments to further our business (collectively, “business combination and investment transactions”), and also handle any post-closing issues, such as integration. Risks associated with business combination and investment transactions include the following, any of which could adversely affect our financial results, including our effective tax rate: • We may not successfully combine product or service offerings or realize all of the anticipated benefits of any particular business combination and investment transaction, which may result in (1) failure to execute on our business strategy; (2) failure to coordinate sales and marketing efforts to effectively position our capabilities; (3) failure to retain employees, customers, distributors, and suppliers or attract new business and operational relationships; (4) increase in unanticipated delays or failure to meet contractual obligations which may cause financial results to differ from expectations; and (5) pay, early retirement costs, employee benefit costs, charges from the elimination of duplicative facilities and contracts, inventory adjustments, assumed litigation and other liabilities, legal, accounting and financial advisory fees, and required payments to executive officers and key employees under retention plans. • We may fail to successfully and efficiently (1) integrate financial forecasting and controls, procedures and reporting cycles; (2) consolidate and integrate corporate, information technology, finance and administrative infrastructures; (3) coordinate and integrate operations, including in countries in which we have not previously operated;  (4) integrate employees and related human capital management systems and benefits; or (5) address redundant processes and functions in an adequate manner (thereby impacting our ability to achieve all or any of the anticipated synergies) • Our ability to conduct due diligence with respect to business combination and investment transactions, and our ability to evaluate the results of such due diligence, is dependent upon the veracity and completeness of statements and disclosures made or actions taken by third parties or their representatives. We may fail to identify significant issues with the acquired company’s product quality, financial disclosures, workplace culture, accounting practices or internal control deficiencies or all of the factors necessary to estimate reasonably accurate costs, timing and other matters. • In order to complete a business combination and investment transaction, we may issue common stock, potentially creating dilution for our existing stockholders or we may enter into financing arrangements, which could affect our liquidity and financial condition. 22 • For an acquisition or other combination, the acquisition partner may have differing or inadequate cybersecurity and data protection controls, which could impact our exposure to data security incidents and potentially increase anticipated costs or time to integrate the business. • Business combination and investment transactions may lead to litigation, which could impact our financial condition and results of operations. • We have incurred and will incur additional depreciation and amortization expense over the useful lives of certain assets acquired in connection with business combination and investment transactions and, to the extent that the value of goodwill or intangible assets acquired in connection with a business combination and investment transaction becomes impaired, we may be required to incur additional material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. • For a divestiture, we may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely manner, or we may dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less desirable than we had anticipated. • The impact of divestitures on our revenue growth may be larger than projected, as we may experience greater dis-synergies than expected. If we do not satisfy pre-closing conditions and necessary regulatory and governmental approvals on acceptable terms, it may prevent us from completing the transaction. Dispositions may also involve continued financial involvement in the divested business, such as through continuing equity ownership, guarantees, indemnities or other financial obligations. Under these arrangements, performance by the divested businesses or other conditions outside of our control could affect our future financial results. • Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it difficult or discourage an acquisition of Hewlett Packard Enterprise if our Board of Directors deems it to be undesirable. Provisions such as indemnification, meeting requirements, and blank check stock authorizations could deter or delay hostile takeovers, proxy contests, or changes in control or management of Hewlett Packard Enterprise. Management’s attention or other resources may be diverted during business combination and investment transactions and may be further impacted if we fail to successfully complete or integrate business combination and investment transactions that further our strategic objectives . See also the risk factors below under the heading “Risks Related to Prior Separations.” If we cannot continue to produce quality products and services, our reputation, business, and financial performance may suffer. In the course of conducting our business, we must adequately address quality issues associated with our products, services, and solutions (whether developed by us or by a company we acquire), including defects in our engineering, design, and manufacturing processes and unsatisfactory performance under service contracts, as well as defects in third-party components included in our products and unsatisfactory performance or even malicious acts by third-party contractors or subcontractors or their employees. In order to address quality issues, we work extensively with our customers and suppliers and engage in product testing to determine the causes of problems and to develop and implement appropriate solutions. However, the products, services, and solutions that we offer are complex, and our regular testing and quality control efforts may not be effective in controlling or detecting all quality issues or errors, particularly with respect to faulty components manufactured by third parties. If we are unable to determine the cause, find an appropriate solution or offer a temporary fix (or “patch”) to address quality issues with our products, we may delay shipment to customers, which could delay revenue recognition and receipt of customer payments and could adversely affect our revenue, cash flows, and profitability. In addition, after products are delivered, quality issues may require us to repair or replace such products. Addressing quality issues can be expensive and may result in additional warranty, repair, replacement, and other costs, adversely affecting our financial performance. If new or existing customers have difficulty operating our products or are dissatisfied with our services or solutions, our results of operations could be adversely affected, and we could face possible claims if we fail to meet our customers' expectations. In addition, quality issues, including the actual or perceived security or reliability of our offerings or ability to address other data security concerns, can impair our relationships with new or existing customers and adversely affect our brand and reputation, which could adversely affect our results of operations. In order to be successful, we must attract, retain, train, motivate, develop, and transition key employees, and failure to do so could seriously harm us. In order to be successful, we must attract, retain, train, motivate, develop, and transition qualified executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical, development, sales, marketing, and IT positions. In order to attract and retain executives and other key employees in a competitive marketplace, we must provide a competitive compensation package, including cash and equity-based compensation. These are particularly important considering our growth strategy to capture the market opportunities presented by networking, hybrid cloud, and AI. Certain equity-based incentive awards for certain executives contain conditions relating to our stock price performance and our long-term financial performance that make the future value of those awards uncertain. If the anticipated value of such equity-based incentive awards does not materialize, if our equity-based compensation otherwise ceases to be viewed as a valuable benefit, if our total compensation package is not 23 viewed as being competitive, or if we do not obtain the stockholder approval needed to continue granting equity-based incentive awards in the amounts we believe are necessary, our ability to attract, retain, and motivate executives and key employees could be weakened. Our failure to successfully hire executives and key employees or the loss of any executives and key employees could have a significant impact on our operations and our ability to execute our strategy. Further, changes in our management team may be disruptive to our business, and any failure to successfully transition and assimilate key new hires or promoted employees could adversely affect our business and results of operations. As competition for highly skilled employees in our industry has grown increasingly intense, we have in the past experienced, and may in the future experience, higher than anticipated levels of employee attrition, which has resulted in increased costs to hire new employees with the desired skills and may do so again in the future. In addition, significant or prolonged turnover or revised hiring priorities may negatively impact our operations and culture, as well as our ability to successfully maintain our processes and procedures, including due to the loss of historical, technical, and other expertise. These risks to attracting and retaining the necessary talent may be exacerbated by labor constraints, such as immigration policies which may impair the ability to recruit technical and professional talent, and inflationary pressures, which impact employee wages and benefits. Further, integration of employees and businesses as a result of our acquisitions, including the Merger, may present challenges, which could negatively affect our ability to retain and recruit personnel who are essential to our future success. If we fail to manage the distribution of our products and services properly, our business and financial performance could suffer. We use a variety of distribution methods to sell our products and services around the world, including both direct and indirect sales to end-users. Successfully managing the interaction of our direct and indirect channel efforts to reach various potential customer segments for our products and services is a complex process. Moreover, since each distribution method has distinct risks and gross margins, our failure to implement the most advantageous balance in the delivery model for our products and services could adversely affect our revenue and gross margins and therefore our profitability. Our financial results could be materially adversely affected due to distribution channel conflicts or if the financial conditions of our channel partners were to weaken. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by any conflicts that might arise between our various distribution channels or the loss or deterioration of any alliance or distribution arrangement. Moreover, some of our wholesale distributors may have insufficient financial resources and may not be able to withstand changes in business conditions, including economic weakness, industry consolidation, and market trends. Considerable trade receivables that are not covered by collateral or credit insurance are outstanding with our distribution channel partners. Revenue from indirect sales could suffer, and we could experience disruptions in distribution, if our distributors’ financial conditions, abilities to borrow funds in the credit markets, or operations weaken. Our inventory management is complex, as we continue to sell a significant mix of products through distributors. We must manage both owned and channel inventory effectively, particularly with respect to sales to distributors, which involves forecasting demand and pricing challenges. Distributors have in the past adjusted orders during periods of product shortages, and may do so in the future, in addition to cancelling orders if their inventory is too high or delaying orders in anticipation of new products. Distributors also may adjust their orders in response to the supply of our products and the products of our competitors and seasonal fluctuations in end-user demand. If we have excess or obsolete inventory, we may have to reduce our prices and write down inventory, and have done so from time to time in the past. Moreover, our use of indirect distribution channels may limit our willingness or ability to adjust prices quickly and otherwise to respond to pricing changes. Issues in the development and use of artificial intelligence may result in reputational harm, liability or impact to our results of operations. We believe the proliferation of AI, especially as it relates to our products and solutions that enable AI workloads, will have a significant impact on customer preferences and market dynamics in our industry, and our ability to effectively compete in this space will be critical to our financial performance. We currently incorporate AI capabilities into certain offerings and manufacture hardware designed to support AI capabilities, and our research into and continued development of such capabilities and manufacturing processes remain ongoing. We have invested, and expect to continue to invest, significant resources to build and support the development of these capabilities and manufacturing processes, and if our AI-related offerings fail to operate as anticipated or as well as competing offerings or otherwise do not meet customer needs or if we are unable to bring AI-related offerings to market as effectively as our competitors, we may fail to recoup our investments in AI, our competitive position may be harmed, and our business and reputation may be adversely impacted. As with many innovations, AI presents risks, challenges, and unintended consequences that could affect its adoption, and therefore our business and our overall strategy. While we review proposed implementations and use cases ahead of deployment, we may not always identify the risks or deficiencies of an AI capability or offering and the market may respond differently than we anticipate, potentially impacting our results of operations. AI algorithms and training methodologies may be flawed. Ineffective or inadequate AI development or deployment practices by us or others could result in incidents that impair the 24 acceptance of AI solutions or cause harm to individuals or society. These deficiencies and other failures of AI systems could subject us to competitive harm, regulatory action, legal liability, and brand or reputational harm. If we enable or offer AI solutions that are controversial because of their impact on human rights, privacy, employment, or other social, economic, or political issues, we may experience competitive, brand, or reputational harm or legal and/or regulatory action. Further, incorporating AI gives rise to litigation risk and risk of non-compliance and unknown cost of compliance, as AI is an emerging technology for which the legal and regulatory landscape is not fully developed and which may vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, creating complex compliance issues (including potential liability for breaching intellectual property or privacy rights or laws or for the misuse of personal data). While new AI initiatives, laws, and regulations are emerging and evolving, what they ultimately will look like remains uncertain, and our obligation to comply with them could entail significant costs, negatively affect our business, or entirely limit our ability to incorporate certain AI capabilities into our offerings. The resulting impact of such regulations on our customers’ desire for AI capabilities and demand for our offerings more generally could negatively impact our results of operations. Additionally, leveraging AI capabilities to potentially improve internal functions and operations presents further risks and challenges. While we aim to use AI ethically and attempt to identify and mitigate ethical or legal issues presented by its use, we may nevertheless be unsuccessful in identifying or resolving issues before they arise. The use of AI to support business operations carries inherent risks related to data privacy and security, such as intended, unintended, or inadvertent transmission of proprietary or sensitive information, as well as challenges related to implementing and maintaining AI tools, such as developing and maintaining appropriate datasets for such support. Further, dependence on AI without adequate safeguards to make certain business decisions may introduce additional operational vulnerabilities by impacting our relationships with customers, partners, and suppliers; by producing inaccurate outcomes based on flaws in the underlying data; or other unintended results. Changes in the macroeconomic environment have, at times, impacted and may in the future negatively impact our results of operations. Changes in macroeconomic conditions have, at times, affected and may in the future affect consumer and enterprise spending, and as a result, our customers have postponed or cancelled, and may also in the future postpone or cancel, spending in response to numerous reasons, including but not limited to volatility in credit and equity markets, negative financial news and/or declines in income or asset values, all of which may have an adverse effect on the demand for our products and/or result in changes in our product prices. Other factors that have had, and could again in the future have, an adverse effect on demand for our products, financial condition and results of operations include inflation, slower economic growth or economic recession, conditions in the labor market, healthcare costs, access to credit, consumer confidence, and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumer and business spending behavior. These changes could happen rapidly and we may not be able to react quickly to prevent or limit our losses or exposures. Additionally, other macroeconomic developments, such as efforts of governments to stimulate or stabilize the economy, international conflicts, trade disputes, sanctions, increased tariffs internationally, including between the United States and China and on imports into the United States from various countries, have at times impacted, and may in the future impact our business in an adverse manner, whether directly or indirectly, such as through their impacts on the financial positions and operations of our customers, suppliers, and other third parties with whom we do business or on whom we rely, and as a consequence, their ability to perform their obligations under their agreements with us. Persistent inflation has negatively affected our business in recent quarters and could do so again in the future, as well. A general weakening of, and related declining corporate confidence in, the global economy or the curtailment in government or corporate spending have at times caused current or potential customers to reduce their IT budgets or be unable to fund data storage products, which have led them to delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our products or to not pay us or to delay paying us for previously purchased products and services, all of which may occur again in the future . Failure to meet responsible and sustainable business expectations or standards or achieve our Living Progress goals could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, or stock price . There has been an increased focus from regulators and stakeholders on sustainability and corporate responsibility matters. Given our commitment to sustainable and responsible business, we actively manage these issues through our Living Progress Strategy and have established and publicly announced certain goals, which we may refine or even expand further in the future. These goals reflect our current plans and aspirations, are based on available data and estimates, and are not guarantees that we will be able to achieve them. Moreover, actions or statements that we may take based on expectations, assumptions, or third-party information that we currently believe to be reasonable may subsequently be determined to be erroneous or be subject to misinterpretation. Initiatives to address sustainability and corporate responsibility issues may be costly and may not have the desired effect. Evolving stakeholder expectations and our efforts and ability to manage these issues and accomplish our goals present numerous operational, regulatory, reputational, financial, legal, and other risks, any of which may be outside of our control or could have adverse impacts on our business, including on our stock price. Further, there is uncertainty around the accounting standards and climate-related disclosures associated with emerging laws and reporting requirements and the related costs to comply with the emerging regulations. 25 Our failure or perceived failure to achieve our Living Progress goals, maintain responsible and sustainable business practices, or comply with emerging sustainability regulations that meet evolving regulatory or stakeholder expectations could harm our reputation, adversely impact our ability to attract and retain customers and talent, and expose us to increased scrutiny from the investment community and enforcement a uthorities. Our reputation also may be harmed by the perceptions that our stakeholders have about our action or inaction on certain sustainability- and corporate responsibility-related issues, or because they may disagree with our goals and initiatives, either of which may cause us to face scrutiny, lawsuits, or other market access restrictions from certain parties related to our action or inaction on such issues. Damage to our reputation and loss of brand equity may reduce demand for our products and services and thus have an adverse effect on our future financial performance, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation. Risks arising from climate change and the transition to a lower-carbon economy may impact our business. Climate change serves as a risk multiplier that could increase both the frequency and severity of natural disasters that may affect our worldwide business operations and those of suppliers and customers. Our corporate headquarters is located in Spring, Texas, which suffers from floods, hurricanes, and other extreme weather, and a portion of our research and development activities are located in California, which suffers from drought conditions and catastrophic wildfires, each affecting the health and safety of our employees. In California, to mitigate wildfire risk, electric utilities have, at times periodically deployed, and may in the future, periodically deploy public safety power shutoffs, which affect electricity reliability to our facilities and our communities. Certain sites located in the United States, Middle East, China, and India experience exposure to extreme heat and water stress, which could potentially jeopardize the health and well-being of our employees, consequently impacting our operations. While we seek to mitigate business risks, including those associated with climate change, through site selection, infrastructure technological investments, business continuity planning, and robust environmental programs, this may require us to incur substantial costs, and we may be unsuccessful in doing so as there are inherent climate-related risks wherever business is conducted. Furthermore, climate change may reduce the availability or increase the cost of insurance for these negative impacts of natural disasters by contributing to an increase in the incidence and severity of such natural disasters. The increasing concern over climate change could also result in transition risks, such as efforts and expenditures related to carbon abatement, shifting customer preferences, or compliance risks from changing regulatory and legal requirements. We have already observed changing customer preferences resulting in increased demands for sustainable solutions, products, and services. While we have been integrating such trends into our business and sales strategies thus far, we may not be able to successfully do so in the future. Further, continually changing customer preferences may cause us to incur additional costs, invest more in R&D, or make other changes to other operations to respond to such demands, which may not be carried out successfully, and if so, could adversely affect our financial results. We may also confront higher electricity prices as the grid decarbonizes, and higher costs for supplies or components that comply with certain environmental regulatory thresholds, potentially impacting our margins or the pricing of our offerings. If we fail to manage these and other transition risks in an effective manner, customer demand for our solutions, products, and services could diminish, and our profitability could suffer. Industry Risks We operate in an intensely competitive industry, and competitive pressures could harm our business and financial performance. Our ability to implement solutions for our customers, anticipate and respond to rapid and continuing changes in technology (such as cloud-, AI-, and security-related offerings, which are continually evolving), and develop new service offerings or incorporate technological improvements into our offerings that meet current and prospective customers’ needs, as well as evolving industry standards, is critical to our competitiveness and success. We encounter aggressive competition from numerous and varied competitors in all areas of our business, and our competitors have targeted and are expected to continue targeting our key market segments. We compete primarily on the basis of technology, innovation, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, reputation, distribution, range of products and services, ease of use of our products, account relationships, customer training, service and support, security, and the availability of our IT infrastructure offerings. If our products, services, support, and cost structure do not enable us to compete successfully based on any of those criteria, our results of operations and business prospects could be harmed. We have a large portfolio of products and services and must allocate our financial, personnel, and other resources across all of our products and services while competing with companies that have smaller portfolios or specialize in one or more of our product or service lines. As a result, we may invest less in certain areas of our business than our competitors do, and our competitors may have greater financial, technical, and marketing resources available to them compared to the resources allocated to our products and services that compete against theirs. If we do not sufficiently invest in new technologies, successfully adapt to industry developments and changing demand, and evolve and expand our business at sufficient speed and scale to keep pace with the demands of the markets we serve, we may be unable to develop and maintain a competitive advantage and execute on our growth strategy, which would adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Industry consolidation may also affect competition by creating larger, more homogeneous, and potentially stronger 26 competitors in the markets in which we operate. Additionally, our competitors may affect our business by entering into exclusive arrangements with our existing or potential customers or suppliers. Companies with whom we have vertical relationships in certain areas may be or become our competitors in other areas. In addition, companies with whom we have vertical relationships also may acquire or form relationships with our competitors, which could reduce their business with us. If we are unable to effectively manage these complicated relationships with vertical partners, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. We face aggressive price competition and may continue to do so. As a consequence of inflation and higher supply chain and manufacturing costs, we have in the past increased the prices of many of our products and services to maintain or improve our revenue and gross margin, and may do so again in the future. In addition, competitors who have a greater presence in some of the lower-cost markets in which we compete, or who can obtain better pricing, more favorable contractual terms and conditions, or more favorable allocations of products and components during periods of limited supply may be able to offer lower prices than we are able to offer. Our cash flows, results of operations, and financial condition may be adversely affected by these and other industry-wide pricing pressures. Because our business model is based on providing innovative and high-quality products and services, we may spend a proportionately greater amount of our revenues on R&D than some of our competitors. If we cannot proportionately decrease our cost structure (apart from R&D expenses) on a timely basis in response to competitive price pressures, our profitability could be adversely affected. In addition, if our pricing and other facets of our offerings are not sufficiently competitive, or if there is an adverse reaction to our product decisions, we may lose market share in certain areas, which could adversely affect our financial performance and business prospects. Even if we are able to maintain or increase market share for a particular product, its financial performance could decline because the product is in a maturing industry or market segment or contains technology that is becoming obsolete. Financial performance could decline due to increased competition from other types of products that perform similar functions as our offerings. International Risks Due to the international nature of our business, political or economic changes and the laws and regulatory regimes applying to international transactions or other factors could harm our future revenue, costs and expenses, and financial condition. Our business and financial performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions and the demand for technology hardware, software, and services in, and continued access to, the markets in which we compete. Economic weakness and uncertainty and the volatile inflationary environment have constrained spending on network and enterprise infrastructure. This has in the past adversely affected the demand for our products, services, and solutions, which has impacted our financial condition and results of operations, all of which we may experience again in the future. These have, at times in the past, resulted in increased expenses due to higher allowances for doubtful accounts and potential goodwill and asset impairment charges (among other financial impacts), and made it more difficult for us to manage inventory and make accurate forecasts of revenue, gross margin, cash flows, and expenses, and may have such effects again in the future. Such factors, including how long such conditions may persist, among others, may negatively impact the evenness or volume of demand for our products and services, potentially resulting in impacts similar to those mentioned above, though the precise extent of such impacts cannot be accurately predicted. Economic weakness and uncertainty could cause our expenses to vary materially from our expectations. Any financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets, or any significant financial services institution failures could negatively impact our treasury operations, as the financial condition of such parties may deteriorate rapidly and without notice in times of market volatility and disruption. Interest and other expenses have varied, and could continue to vary, materially from expectations depending on changes in interest rates, borrowing costs, currency exchange rates, costs of hedging activities, and the fair value of derivative instruments. It is difficult to predict the impact of such events on us, our third-party partners, our customers, or economic markets more broadly, which have been and will continue to be highly dependent upon the actions of governments and businesses in response to macroeconomic events, and the effectiveness of those actions. Such actions have impacted, and may further impact our ability, desire, or the timing of seeking funding for various investment opportunities. Economic downturns also may lead to restructuring actions and associated expenses. Further, reduced U.S. federal government spending may limit demand for our products, services, and solutions from organizations that receive funding from the U.S. government, and could negatively affect macroeconomic conditions in the United States, which could further reduce demand for our products, services, and solutions. Our business and financial performance also could be adversely affected by changes in U.S. trade policy, U.S. export controls and sanctions, and U.S. regulations concerning imports, as well as international laws and regulations relating to global trade. Current U.S. government trade policy includes the imposition of tariffs on certain foreign goods, including information and communication technology products. These measures have materially increased costs for certain goods imported into the United States. As a result, our business has in the past been impacted by forced material price increases, which in turn resulted 27 in price increases for our offerings, which subsequently limited demand or reduced margins for our offerings, all of which may impact us again from time to time in the future. Additionally, U.S. trading partners may adopt their own trade policies making it more difficult or costly for us to export our products to those countries. Similarly, changes in regulations relating to certain exports, including economic sanctions, have led to export delays and prevented us, and could in the future prevent us, from exporting products to certain locations or customers entirely, which have in some instances impacted, and could in the future impact, our financial performance. In addition, changes in requirements relating to making foreign direct investments could increase our cost of doing business in certain jurisdictions, prevent us from shipping products to particular countries or markets, affect our ability to obtain favorable terms for components, increase our operating costs, or lead to penalties or restrictions. While we have policies and procedures designed to facilitate compliance with global trade laws and regimes around the world, such measures may not guarantee compliance. Sales outside the United States constituted approximately 64% of our net revenue in fiscal 2024. As such, our future business and financial performance could suffer due to a variety of international factors in addition to those otherwise already disclosed, including: • ongoing uncertainties as a result of instability or changes in geopolitical conditions, including military or political conflicts, such as those caused by the ongoing conflicts between Russia and Ukraine or in the Middle East (the potential escalation or geographic expansion of which could heighten other risks identified in this report), or the relationship between China and the U.S. (which could, among other things, impact the enforceability of certain contracts or the timing and form of certain payments); • inflationary pressures, which have in the past increased, and may in the future increase costs for materials, supplies, and services, including those of third parties with whom we do business; • adverse or uncertain macroeconomic conditions, including a changing interest rate environment and fears of a potential global economic downturn or recession, which have at times in the past slowed customer demand for our products and services, and may do so again in the future; • network security, privacy, and data sovereignty concerns, which could make foreign customers reluctant to purchase products and services from U.S.-based technology companies; • longer collection cycles and financial instability among customers, which could impact our ability to collect on accounts receivable and consequently recognize revenue; • local labor conditions and regulations, including local labor issues faced by specific suppliers and OEMs, or changes to immigration and labor law policies which may adversely impact our access to technical and professional talent; • managing our geographically dispersed workforce, which has necessitated, and may in the future require, incurring costs to promote seamless workforce connectivity and to comply with changing laws, regulations and workers’ rights councils across multiple jurisdictions; • differing technology standards or customer requirements, which have required us to incur additional development and production costs to modify or adapt our offerings, and may do so again in the future; • local content and manufacturing requirements, which have impacted, and could further impact, our ability to sell into those markets; • difficulties associated with repatriating earnings in restricted countries, and changes in tax laws, which introduces uncertainty to our results of operations and financial performance; and • fluctuations in freight costs, limitations on shipping and receiving capacity, and other disruptions in the transportation and shipping infrastructure at important geographic points of exit and entry for our products and shipments, which have from time to time adversely impacted, and any of which could in the future adversely impact, our results of operations and ability to meet customer demand. Certain of the factors described above have, in the past, disrupted the operations of, and adversely impacted our product and component manufacturing and key suppliers, customers, or vendors located outside of the United States, and could do so again in the future. For example, we rely on suppliers in Asia for product assembly and manufacture, the operations of whom are subject to local labor laws and other requirements. Any loss of or limitations on their output or their inability to operate could have an adverse effect on our ability to timely deliver our products and services, which would in turn negatively impact our financial performance. Further, the ongoing conflict between Russia and Ukraine and the trade sanctions imposed by the U.S., the European Union (the “EU”), and other countries in response have negatively impacted business and financial performance in that region. HPE is continuing to execute on the exit of our remaining business in Russia and Belarus as planned; however, we cannot provide any assurance that such exit will be efficient or uninterrupted, which may negatively impact our operational expenses. 28 We implement policies, procedures, and training designed to facilitate compliance with anti-corruption laws around the world, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act. However, such measures may not guarantee compliance, and our employees and third parties with whom we work may take actions in violation of such policies or such anti-corruption laws. Furthermore, in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, people may engage in business practices prohibited by anti-corruption laws. Violations of such laws may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions and penalties, and we may be subject to those and other liabilities that could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Conducting business in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, including the euro, the Japanese yen, and British pound has, from time to time, adversely impacted, and could in the future, have an adverse impact on our results as expressed in U.S. dollars. Currency volatility contributes to variations in our sales of products and services in impacted jurisdictions. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates have, from time to time, adversely affected, and could in future periods adversely affect our revenue recognition and our revenue growth. In addition, currency variations can adversely affect our ability to implement price increases, margins on sales of our products in countries outside of the United States and margins on sales of products that include components obtained from suppliers located outside of the United States. From time to time, we use forward contracts and options designated as cash flow hedges to protect against foreign currency exchange rate risks, and may continue to do so in the future. The effectiveness of our hedges depends on our ability to accurately forecast future cash flows, which is particularly difficult during periods of uncertain demand for our products and services and highly volatile exchange rates. We may incur significant losses from our hedging activities due to factors such as volatility and currency variations. In addition, certain or all of our hedging activities may be ineffective, may expire and not be renewed or may not offset any or more than a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from currency variations. Losses associated with hedging activities also may impact our revenue and to a lesser extent our cost of sales and financial condition. Intellectual Property Risks Our financial performance may suffer if we cannot continue to develop, license, or enforce the intellectual property rights on which our businesses depend. We rely upon patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret, and other intellectual property laws in the United States, similar laws in other countries, and agreements with our employees, customers, suppliers, and other parties, to establish and maintain intellectual property rights in the products and services we sell, provide, or otherwise use in our operations. However, from time to time our intellectual property rights have been challenged, infringed, or circumvented, and any of such rights could be further challenged, invalidated, infringed, or circumvented or such intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to permit us to take advantage of current market trends or to otherwise provide competitive advantages. Further, the laws of certain countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Therefore, in certain jurisdictions we may be unable to protect our proprietary technology adequately against unauthorized third-party copying or use; this, too, could adversely affect our ability to sell products or services and our competitive position. Furthermore, changes in intellectual property laws or their interpretation may impact our ability to protect and assert our intellectual property rights, increase costs and uncertainties in the prosecution of patent applications or related enforcement actions, and diminish the value and competitive advantage conferred by our intellectual property assets. Monitoring and detecting any unauthorized access, use or disclosure of our intellectual property is complex, and we cannot be certain that the protective measures we have implemented will completely prevent misuse. Our ability to enforce our intellectual property rights is subject to litigation risks and uncertainty as to the protection and enforceability of those rights in some countries. If we seek to enforce our intellectual property rights, we may be subject to claims that those rights are invalid or unenforceable, and others may seek counterclaims against us, which could have a negative impact on our business. Effective protection of intellectual property rights is expensive and difficult to maintain, both in terms of application and maintenance costs, as well as the costs of defending and enforcing those rights. Our products and services depend in part on intellectual property and technology licensed from third parties. Much of our business and many of our products rely on key technologies developed or licensed by third parties. For example, many of our software offerings are developed using software components or other intellectual property licensed from third parties, including through both proprietary and open-source licenses. These third-party software components may become obsolete, defective, or incompatible with future versions of our products, our relationship with the third party may deteriorate or cease, or our agreements with the third party may expire or be terminated. We may face legal or business disputes with licensors that may threaten or lead to the disruption of inbound licensing relationships. In order to remain in compliance with the terms of our licenses, we must carefully monitor and manage our use of third-party software components, including both proprietary and open source license terms that may require the licensing or public disclosure of our intellectual property without compensation or on undesirable terms. Additionally, some of these licenses may not be available to us in the future on terms that are acceptable or that allow our product offerings to remain competitive. Our inability to obtain licenses or rights on favorable terms could have a material effect on our business, including our financial condition and results of operations. In 29 addition, it is possible that as a consequence of a merger or acquisition, we may acquire intellectual property subject to licensing obligations to third parties, other third parties may obtain licenses to some of our intellectual property rights or our business may be subject to certain restrictions that were not in place prior to such transaction. Because the availability and cost of licenses from third parties depends upon the willingness of third parties to deal with us on the terms we request, there is a risk that third parties who license to our competitors will either refuse to license us at all, or refuse to license us on terms equally favorable to those granted to our competitors. Consequently, we may lose a competitive advantage with respect to these intellectual property rights or we may be required to enter into costly arrangements in order to terminate or limit these rights. Third-party claims of intellectual property infringement, including patent infringement, are commonplace in our industry and successful third-party claims may limit or disrupt our ability to sell our products and services. Third parties may claim that we or customers indemnified by us are infringing upon or otherwise violating their intellectual property rights. Patent assertion entities frequently purchase intellectual property assets for the purpose of extracting infringement settlements. Furthermore, our exposure to these risks associated with the use of intellectual property may be increased as a result of acquisitions; not only do we have a lower level of visibility into the development process with respect to such technology or the care taken to safeguard against infringement risks, but also third parties may make infringement and similar claims only after we have acquired technology that had not been asserted prior to our acquisition. If we cannot license, or replace, allegedly infringed intellectual property on reasonable terms, our operations could be adversely affected. In addition, there is uncertainty around the validity and enforceability of intellectual property rights related to our use, development, and deployment of AI and AI systems and solutions. Our use of AI technologies, whether created by us for internal or customer use cases or otherwise incorporated from external sources into our offerings, could lead to violation of third-party intellectual property rights, and could require us to incur significant expenses to modify our solutions and processes or otherwise engage in efforts to remain in compliance with the law. Even if we believe that intellectual property claims are without merit, they can be time-consuming and costly to defend against and may divert management's attention and resources away from our business. Claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to redesign affected products, discontinue certain product offerings, enter into costly settlement or license agreements, pay costly damage awards, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from importing, marketing, or selling certain of our products. Even if we have an agreement to indemnify us against such costs, the indemnifying party may be unable or unwilling to uphold its contractual obligations to us. Financial Risks Adverse developments affecting our liquidity, capital position, borrowing costs, and access to capital markets could adversely impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations or those of the third parties with whom we do business. We currently maintain investment grade credit ratings with Moody's Investors Service, Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, and Fitch Ratings Services. Despite these investment grade credit ratings at this time, we may experience downgrades in our credit ratings for various reasons, including but not limited to for reasons in connection with the substantial amount of debt we have incurred and expect to assume in connection with the Merger. Any such downgrades could increase the cost of borrowing under any indebtedness we may incur, jeopardize our ability to incur debt on terms acceptable to us, reduce market capacity for our commercial paper, or require the posting of additional collateral under our derivative contracts. Additionally, increased borrowing costs, including those arising from a credit rating downgrade, can potentially reduce the competitiveness of our financing business. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our credit ratings, and any additional actual or anticipated changes or downgrades in our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under review for a downgrade, may have a negative impact on our liquidity, capital position, and access to capital markets. In addition, volatility and disruption in the financial sector and capital markets and other events negatively affecting macroeconomic conditions or contributing to the instability or volatility thereof, such as changing interest rates, have from time to time in the past impacted, and may in the future impact, our liquidity, capital position, and access to capital markets. Our total liquidity depends in part on the availability of funds under the revolving credit facility and our other financing agreements. The failure of any lender's ability to fund future draws on our revolving credit facility or our other financing arrangements could reduce the amount of cash we have available for operations and additional capital for future needs. The future effects of such events are unknown and difficult to predict at this time, and could adversely affect us, our customers, financial institutions, transactional counterparties, or others with which we do business, which may in turn have adverse impacts on our current and/or projected business operations, financial condition, and our results of operations. Our obligation to consummate the Merger is not subject to a financing condition, and as such, may be subject to events beyond our control, such as the timing of receipt of regulatory approvals. Further, portions of our recently issued debt contain special mandatory redemption provisions, and if we do not consummate the Merger before October 2025, we may be required to redeem certain series of such debt, which would result in less flexibility to address other funding needs. Our debt obligations may adversely affect our business and our ability to meet our obligations and pay dividends. In addition to our current total carrying debt, we may also incur additional indebtedness in the future. In order to consummate the Merger, we have incurred a substantial amount of debt, and plan to incur further debt, as well. This collective 30 amount of debt could have important adverse consequences to us and our investors, including requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make principal and interest payments; making it more difficult to satisfy other obligations; increasing the risk of a future credit ratings downgrade of our debt, which could increase future debt costs and limit the future availability of debt financing; increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; reducing the cash flows available to fund capital expenditures and other corporate purposes and to grow our business; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; and limiting our ability to borrow additional funds as needed or take advantage of business opportunities as they arise, pay cash dividends or repurchase our common stock. While the U.S. Federal Reserve has begun lowering interest rates and signaled its intention to keep doing so, macroeconomic circumstances may change, resulting in delays or reversal of such actions, including by central banks around the world, which may result in a prolonged high interest rate environment and affect our ability to incur debt at reasonable prices or our desire to incur further debt at all. To the extent that we incur additional indebtedness, the risks described above could increase, including requiring additional expected cash flows from operations to service our debt. In addition, our actual cash requirements to operate our business in the future may be greater than expected. Our cash flow from operations may not be sufficient to service our outstanding debt or to repay our outstanding debt as it becomes due, and we may not be able to borrow money, sell assets, or otherwise raise funds on acceptable terms, or at all, to service or refinance our debt. The revenue and profitability of our operations have historically varied, which makes our future financial results less predictable. Our revenue, gross margin, and profit vary among our diverse products and services, customer groups, and geographic markets and therefore, will likely be different in future periods than our historical results. Our revenue depends on the overall demand for our products and services, which is difficult to accurately predict, varies from time to time, may be uneven across our portfolio of offerings, and is subject to industry-wide or broader macroeconomic market dynamics, all of which have in the past adversely impacted, and may again in the future adversely impact, our business and financial condition. Additionally, the varying sizes of customer contracts or orders, variations in customer acceptances of delivered orders, the timing thereof, and cancellations and/or de-bookings of such orders (due to various reasons, including but not limited to failure to satisfy terms and compliance matters, whether initiated by us or the customer) can be uneven across our portfolio and have at times impacted, and in the future could impact, our pipeline, bookings and our ability to recognize revenue, if at all (particularly with respect to contracts and orders involving our AI offerings). Such variables have in the past negatively impacted our financial performance, and may do so again in the future. Delays or reductions in discretionary IT spending by our customers or potential customers have had, and in the future could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services, which could result in a significant decline in revenue. For example, we have seen demand soften unevenly across our portfolio and geographies, which may continue, as certain customers and sectors have been taking longer than anticipated to digest prior large orders. In addition, revenue declines in some of our businesses may affect revenue in our other businesses as we may lose cross-selling opportunities. Overall gross margins and profitability in any given period are dependent partially on the product, service, customer, and geographic mix reflected in that period's net revenue. Furthermore, the relationship between China and the U.S., and any subsequent action that may be taken by either country, may significantly vary the results our operations and financial performance from that region. There could be additional uncertainty surrounding the enforceability of contract obligations, as well as the timing and form of payments from China. Competition, lawsuits, investigations, increases in component and manufacturing costs that we are unable to pass on to our customers, component supply disruptions, and other risks affecting our businesses may have a significant impact on our overall gross margin and profitability. Variations in our fixed cost structure and gross margins across business units and product portfolios, have from time to time led to, and may lead to significant operating profit volatility on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. In addition, newer geographic market opportunities may be relatively less profitable due to our investments associated with entering those markets and local pricing pressures, and we may have difficulty establishing and maintaining the operating infrastructure necessary to support the high growth rate associated with some of those markets. Market trends, industry shifts, competitive pressures, commoditization of products, increased component or shipping costs, regulatory impacts, and other factors have from time to time resulted in, and may in the future result in, reductions in revenue or pressure on gross margins of certain segments in a given period, which may lead to adjustments to our operations. Moreover, our efforts to address the challenges facing our business could increase the level of variability in our financial results because the rate at which we are able to realize the benefits from those efforts may vary from period to period. Our uneven sales cycle and supply chain disruptions make planning and inventory management difficult and future financial results less predictable. In some of our businesses, our quarterly sales have periodically reflected a pattern in which a disproportionate percentage of each quarter's total sales occurs towards the end of the quarter. This uneven sales pattern makes predicting revenue, earnings, cash flow from operations, and working capital for each financial period difficult, increases the risk of unanticipated variations in our quarterly results and financial condition, and places pressure on our inventory management and logistics systems. If predicted demand is substantially greater than orders, there may be excess inventory; and alternatively, if 31 orders substantially exceed predicted demand, we may not be able to fulfill all of the orders received in each quarter and such orders may be canceled, all of which we experienced from time to time in the past and may do so again in the future. Depending on when they occur in a quarter, developments such as a systems failure, component pricing movements, component shortages, or global logistics disruptions, have in the past adversely impacted, and could in the future adversely impact, our inventory levels and results of operations in a manner that is disproportionate to the number of days in the quarter affected. We experience some seasonal trends in the sale of our products that also have produced, and may in the future produce, variations in our quarterly results and financial condition. Many of the factors that create and affect seasonal trends are beyond our control. Separately, periodic supply chain shortages and constraints have, in some instances, resulted in, and may result in, increases to the costs of production of our hardware products that we have, at times, not been able to, and may, in the future, not be able to pass on to our customers. We have, in some instances, responded to such constraints by committing to higher inventory purchases and balances relative to our historical positions in order to secure manufacturing capacity, components to fulfill orders, or both. While these measures have been taken to shorten lead times to deliver products to customers, they may also result in excess or obsolete components in the future if the demand for our products is less than we anticipate or orders are cancelled, which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. We make estimates and assumptions in connection with the preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements and any changes to those estimates and assumptions could adversely affect our results of operations. In connection with the preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements, we use certain estimates and assumptions based on historical experience and other factors. Our most critical accounting estimates are described in the section entitled “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” In addition, as discussed in Note 1, “Overview and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies—Use of Estimates” and Note 17, “Litigation, Contingencies, and Commitments” to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II, we make certain estimates, including decisions related to provisions for legal proceedings and other contingencies. While we believe that these estimates and assumptions are reasonable under the circumstances, they are subject to significant uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. Should any of these estimates and assumptions change or prove to have been incorrect, it could adversely affect our results of operations. Declaration, payment and amounts of dividends, if any, to holders of our shares will be uncertain. Our board of directors will have the discretion to determine whether any dividends on our common stock will be declared, when dividends, if any, are declared, and the amount of such dividends. We expect that such determination would be based on a number of considerations, including our results of operations and capital management plans, availability of funds, our access to capital markets, as well as industry practice, and other factors deemed relevant by our board of directors. In addition, on September 13, 2024, we issued 30,000,000 shares of 7.625% Series C Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock with a dividend rate of 7.625% per annum on the liquidation preference of $50 per share (the “Preferred Stock”). The Preferred Stock ranks senior to our common stock with respect to the payment of dividends. As long as any share of Preferred Stock is outstanding, unless all accumulated and unpaid dividends on the Preferred Stock for all preceding dividend periods have been declared and paid in full or declared and set apart for payment, we may not declare, pay or set apart for payment any dividends on our common stock or any other class or series of stock that ranks junior to the Preferred Stock. Dividends on the Preferred Stock are discretionary and cumulative. Holders of Preferred Stock will only receive dividends on their shares when, as and if declared by our board of directors. If dividends on the Preferred Stock have not been declared and paid for the equivalent of six or more quarterly dividend periods, whether or not consecutive, holders of Preferred Stock, together as a class with holders of any other series of parity stock with like voting rights, will be entitled to vote for the election of two additional directors to our board of directors. This right to elect additional directors to our board of directors will dilute the representation of our stockholders on our board of directors and may adversely affect the market price of our common stock. When quarterly dividends have been declared and set apart for payment in full, the right of the holders of Preferred Stock to elect these two additional directors will cease, the terms of office of these two directors will forthwith terminate and the number of directors constituting our board of directors will be reduced accordingly. Additional risks related to the Preferred Stock are contained in the prospectus supplement dated September 10, 2024. Regulatory and Government Risks Our business is subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that could result in costs or other sanctions that adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are subject to various US (federal, state, and local), and foreign laws and regulations. Laws and regulations may change in ways that will require us to modify our business model and objectives or affect our returns on investments by restricting existing activities and products, subjecting them to escalating costs or prohibiting them outright. For example, as a result of laws and regulations concerning responsible and sustainable business practices, we face increasing complexity related to product design, safety and compliance; the use of regulated, hazardous, and scarce materials; the management, movement and disposal of hazardous substances and waste; the associated energy consumption and efficiency related to operations and the 32 use of products, services, and solutions; the transportation and shipping of products and other materials; supply chain due diligence; climate change adaptation and mitigation; greenhouse gas emissions; sustainability-related regulations and reporting requirements; and the reuse, recycling and/or disposal of products and their components at end-of-use or useful life and associated operational or financial responsibility. A significant portion of our hardware revenues come from international sales. Any changes to current environmental legal requirements may increase our cost of doing business internationally and impact our hardware revenues from the EU, U.S., China, India and/or other countries proposing or adopting similar environmental legal requirements. In addition, other sustainability reporting-related laws, regulations, treaties, and similar initiatives and programs are being proposed, adopted, and implemented throughout the world  If we were to violate or become liable under environmental or certain sustainability-related laws or if our products become non-compliant with such laws or market access requirements, it could result in loss of market access or limit offerings in those markets or our customers may refuse to purchase our products, and we could incur costs or face other sanctions, such as restrictions on our products entering certain jurisdictions, fines, and/or civil or criminal sanctions. Environmental regulations may also impact the availability and cost of energy or emissions related to energy consumption which may increase our cost of manufacturing and/or the cost of powering and cooling owned IT infrastructures. In addition, our business is subject to an ever-growing number of laws and regulations addressing privacy and information security, including the use of AI. In particular, we face an increasingly complex global regulatory environment and patchwork of state laws in the U.S., increasing the risks addressing these regulatory requirements and in responding to potential security and data incidents. The increase in aaS offerings may also be impacted by data localization and international data transfer requirements under various privacy laws, including the European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation. Given our significant employee and operational presence in India, the Digital Personal Data Protection Act (which was approved in August 2023) has imposed, and may continue to impose, additional restrictions and compliance costs on us. Furthermore, the rapid development and deployment of tools that leverage AI is also causing governments to consider and implement regulation of AI, even for AI that does not pertain to personal data, which is impacting and may further impact the use and incorporation of AI capabilities in our offerings and in our customer’s demand for such offerings. We have received inquiries, and may be subject to demands, claims, lawsuits, regulatory investigations, and additional inquiries (including those from U.S. or foreign governmental authorities), relating to AI use cybersecurity and data incidents that we have experienced or may in the future experience. If we were to violate or become liable under laws or regulations associated with privacy or security or the use of AI, we could incur substantial costs or be exposed to potential regulatory fines, civil or criminal sanctions, third-party claims, and reputational damage. Our actual or perceived failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations or other obligations relating to these topics could subject us to liability to our customers, data subjects, suppliers, business partners, employees, and others, give rise to legal and/or regulatory action, could damage our reputation or could otherwise materially harm our business, any of which could have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Jurisdictions in which we have significant operations and assets, such as the U.S., China, India, and the E.U., each have exercised and continue to exercise significant influence over many aspects of their domestic economies including, but not limited to fair competition, tax practices, anti-corruption, anti-trust, responsible sourcing and human rights (including the use of conflict minerals), price controls and international trade, which have had and may continue to have an adverse effect on our business operations and financial condition. Contracts with federal, state, provincial, and local governments are subject to a number of challenges and risks that may adversely impact our business. Our contracts with federal, state, provincial, and local governmental customers are subject to various government procurement laws and regulations, required contract provisions, and other requirements relating to contract formation, administration, and performance, as well as local content, manufacturing, information security and security requirements. Any violation of government contracting laws and regulations or contract terms could result in the imposition of various civil and criminal penalties, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments and fines, treble damages, and suspension from future government contracting. Additionally, changes in underlying regulatory requirements that vary across the geographies in which we operate could increase compliance costs and risks. Such failures could also cause reputational damage to our business. In addition, in the US, we will continue to be subject to qui tam litigation brought by private individuals on behalf of the government relating to our government contracts. If we are suspended or disbarred from government work or if our ability to compete for new government contracts is adversely affected, our financial performance could suffer. Government contracts impose additional challenges and risks to our sales efforts. Government demand and payment for our products and services may be impacted by public sector budgetary cycles and funding authorizations, including in connection with an extended government shutdown, with funding reductions, or delays adversely affecting public sector demand for our products and services. Such developments could result in material payment delays, payment reductions, or contract terminations by our governmental customers, which may impact our results of operations and financial condition. These may also adversely impact the results of operations and financial condition of government contractors with whom we 33 conduct business. This may cause those government contractors to become unable to meet their obligations under contracts with us. Unanticipated changes in our tax provisions, the adoption of new tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities could affect our financial performance. We are subject to income and other taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our tax liabilities are affected by the amounts we charge in intercompany transactions for inventory, services, licenses, funding, and other items. We are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. Tax authorities may disagree with our intercompany charges, cross-jurisdictional transfer pricing or other matters, and may assess additional taxes as a result. There can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the amounts ultimately paid upon resolution of audits could be materially different from the amounts previously included in our income tax expense and therefore could have a material impact on our tax provision, net income and cash flows. In addition, our effective tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by acquisitions, changes to our operating structure, changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws, and the discovery of new information in the course of our tax return preparation process. The carrying value of our deferred tax assets is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income. The Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (“OECD”), an international association of 38 countries including the United States, has proposed changes to numerous long-standing tax principles, namely, its Pillar Two framework, which imposes a global minimum corporate tax rate of 15%.  To date, 43 countries have enacted portions, or all, of the OECD proposal and a further 22 countries have drafted, or have announced an intent to draft, legislation enacting the proposed rules. Where enacted, the rules begin to be effective for us in fiscal 2025. Under US GAAP, the OECD Pillar Two rules are considered an alternative minimum tax, and therefore deferred taxes would not be recognized or adjusted for the estimated effects of the future minimum tax. As a result, there was no impact to our fiscal 2024 results. The adoption and effective dates of these rules may vary by country and could increase tax complexity and uncertainty and may adversely affect our provision for income taxes. We currently do not expect a material impact to our fiscal 2025 results. During fiscal 2019, we executed a Termination and Mutual Release Agreement which terminated our Tax Matters Agreement with HP Inc. Because we now have limited indemnity rights from HP Inc., we potentially bear more economic risk for certain potential unfavorable tax assessments. Risks Related to Prior Separations The stock distribution in either or both of the completed separations of our former Enterprise Services business and our former Software segment could result in significant tax liability, and DXC Technology Company or Micro Focus International plc (as applicable) may in certain cases be obligated to indemnify us for any such tax liability imposed on us. The completed separations and mergers of our former Enterprise Services business with DXC Technology Company (“DXC”) (the “Everett Transaction” or “Everett”) and our Software Segment with Micro Focus International plc (“Micro Focus”) (the “Seattle Transaction” or “Seattle”) were conditioned upon the receipt of an opinion from outside counsel regarding the qualification of (i) the relevant distribution and related transactions as a “reorganization” within the meaning of Sections 368(a), 361 and 355 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the “Code”) and (ii) the relevant merger as a “reorganization” within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code. While the Seattle Transaction generally qualified for tax-free treatment for us, Seattle SpinCo and Micro Focus, the acquisition of Seattle SpinCo by Micro Focus resulted in the recognition of gain (but not loss) for U.S. persons who received Micro Focus American Depositary Shares in the Software separation. Each opinion of outside counsel was based upon and relied on, among other things, certain facts and assumptions, as well as certain representations, statements and undertakings of us, Everett SpinCo and CSC, or us, Seattle SpinCo and Micro Focus, as applicable. If any of these representations, statements or undertakings are, or become, inaccurate or incomplete, or if any party breaches any of its covenants in the relevant separation documents, the relevant opinion of counsel may be invalid and the conclusions reached therein could be jeopardized. Notwithstanding the opinions of counsel, the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) could determine that either or both of the distributions should be treated as a taxable transaction if it determines that any of the facts, assumptions, representations, statements or undertakings upon which the relevant opinion of counsel was based are false or have been violated, or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion of counsel. An opinion of counsel is not binding on the IRS and there can be no assurance that the IRS will not assert a contrary position. If the distribution of Everett SpinCo or Seattle SpinCo, as applicable, together with certain related transactions, failed to qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code, in general, we would recognize taxable gain as if we had sold the stock of Everett SpinCo or Seattle SpinCo, as applicable, in a taxable sale for its fair market value, and our stockholders who receive Everett SpinCo shares or Seattle SpinCo shares in the relevant distribution would be subject to tax as if they had received a taxable distribution equal to the fair market value of such shares. 34 We obtained private letter rulings from the IRS regarding certain U.S. federal income tax matters relating to the separation of our Enterprise Services business and Software Segment. Those rulings concluded that certain transactions in those separations are generally tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The conclusions of the IRS private letter rulings were based, among other things, on various factual assumptions we have authorized and representations we have made to the IRS. If any of these assumptions or representations are, or become, inaccurate or incomplete, the validity of the IRS private letter rulings may be affected. Notwithstanding the foregoing, we incurred certain tax costs in connection with the completed separation of our former Enterprise Services business and Software Segment, including non-U.S. tax expenses resulting from the completed separation of our former Enterprise Services business and Software Segment in multiple non-U.S. jurisdictions that do not legally provide for tax-free separations, which may be material. If the completed separation of our former Enterprise Services business or Software Segment (including certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of those separations) are determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we, our stockholders that are subject to U.S. federal income tax and/or DXC and/or Micro Focus could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities. We continue to face a number of risks related to our separation from HP Inc., our former parent, including those associated with ongoing indemnification obligations, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, and shared use of certain intellectual property rights, which could in the future adversely impact our reputation. In connection with our separation from HP Inc. on November 1, 2015 (the “Separation”), Hewlett Packard Enterprise and HP Inc. entered into several agreements that determine the allocation of assets and liabilities between the companies following the Separation and include any necessary indemnifications related to liabilities and obligations. In these agreements, HP Inc. agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities, and we agreed to indemnify HP Inc. for certain liabilities, including cross-indemnities that are designed and intended to place financial responsibility for the obligations and liabilities of our business with us, and financial responsibility for the obligations and liabilities of HP Inc.'s business with HP Inc. We may be obligated to fully indemnify HP Inc. for certain liabilities under the Separation agreements or HP Inc. may not be able to fully cover their indemnification obligations to us under the same Separation agreements. Each of these risks could negatively affect our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. In addition, the terms of the Separation also include licenses and other arrangements to provide for certain ongoing use of intellectual property in the operations of both businesses. For example, through a joint brand holding structure, both Hewlett Packard Enterprise and HP Inc. retain the ability to make ongoing use of certain variations of the legacy Hewlett-Packard and HP branding, respectively. As a result of this continuing shared use of the legacy branding there is a risk that conduct or events adversely affecting the reputation of HP Inc. could also adversely affect our reputation. General Risks Our stock price has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate, which may make future prices of our stock difficult to predict. Investors should not rely on recent or historical trends to predict future stock prices, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Our stock price, like that of other technology companies, can be volatile and can be affected by, among other things, speculation, coverage, or sentiment in the media or the investment community; the announcement and anticipated timing of new, planned or contemplated products, services, technological innovations, acquisitions, divestitures, or other significant transactions by us or our competitors; developments in our as-a-service business model; our perceived progress in integrating acquired companies; our quarterly financial results and comparisons to estimates by the investment community or financial outlook provided by us; the financial results and business strategies of our competitors; inflation; market volatility or downturns caused by outbreaks, epidemics, pandemics, geopolitical tensions or conflicts, or other macroeconomic dynamics; developments relating to pending investigations, claims, and disputes; or the timing and amount of our share repurchases. General or industry specific market conditions or stock market performance or domestic or international macroeconomic and geopolitical factors unrelated to our performance also may affect the price of our stock. Volatility in the price of our securities could result in the filing of securities class action litigation matters, which could result in substantial costs and the diversion of management time and resources. 35

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

For purposes of this Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”) section, we use the terms “Hewlett Packard Enterprise,” “HPE,” “the Company,” “we,” “us,” and “our” to refer to Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company. This section of this Form 10-K generally discusses fiscal 2024 and fiscal 2023 items and year-to-year comparisons between fiscal 2024 and fiscal 2023. Discussions of fiscal 2022 items and year-to-year comparisons between fiscal 2023 and fiscal 2022 that are not included in this Form 10-K can be found in “Part II, Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year October 31, 2023, as filed with the SEC on December 22, 2023, which is available on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. We intend the discussion of our financial condition and results of operations that follows to provide information that will assist the reader in understanding our Consolidated Financial Statements, changes in certain key items in these financial statements from year to year, and the primary factors that accounted for these changes, as well as how certain accounting principles, policies and estimates affect our Consolidated Financial Statements. This discussion should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes that appear elsewhere in this document. This MD&A is organized as follows: • Trends and Uncertainties. A discussion of material events and uncertainties known to management, such as the mixed macroeconomic environment of supply chain constraints (though easing), uneven demand across our portfolio, increased demand for and adoption of new technologies, conservative (though recovering) customer spending environment, persistent inflation, foreign exchange pressures, recent tax developments, and pending merger with Juniper Networks, Inc. (“Juniper Networks”). • Executive Overview. A discussion of our business and a summary of our financial performance and other highlights, including non-GAAP financial measures, affecting the Company in order to provide context to the remainder of the MD&A. • Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates. A discussion of accounting policies and estimates that we believe are important to understanding the assumptions and judgments incorporated in our reported financial results. • Results of Operations. A discussion of the results of operations at the consolidated level is followed by a discussion of the results of operations at the segment level. • Liquidity and Capital Resources. An analysis of changes in our cash flows, financial condition, liquidity, and cash requirements and commitments. • GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliations . Each non-GAAP financial measure has been reconciled to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. This section also includes a discussion of the use, usefulness and economic substance of the non-GAAP financial measures, along with a discussion of material limitations, and compensation for those limitations, associated with the use of non-GAAP financial measures. TRENDS AND UNCERTAINTIES During fiscal 2024, the effects of the evolving macroeconomic environment on demand persisted and certain significant developments impacted our operations as follows: Technological Advancements: We have observed market trends and demand (of customers of various segments and sizes) gravitating towards artificial intelligence (“AI”), hybrid cloud, edge computing, data security capabilities, and related offerings. The volume of data at the edge continues to grow, driven by the proliferation of more devices. The need for a unified cloud experience everywhere has grown, as well, in order to manage the growth of data at the edge. With the abundance of data, there are opportunities to develop AI tools with powerful computational abilities to extract insights and value from the captured data. Increasing demand for AI is also contributing to changes in the competitive landscape. Our major competitors and emerging competitors are expanding their product and service offerings with integrated products and solutions and exerting increased competitive pressure. We expect these market dynamics and trends to continue in the longer term. Macroeconomic Uncertainty: The effect of the evolving macroeconomic environment has been impacting industry-wide demand, as customers take longer to work through prior orders and have been adopting a more conservative approach to discretionary IT spending. This has resulted in uneven demand across our portfolio and geographies, particularly for certain of our hardware offerings, as customers have focused investments on modernizing infrastructure, such as migrating to cloud-based 41 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) offerings, including our own. We expect such mixed macroeconomic environment to largely continue (though ease slightly) and possibly limit revenue growth in the near term. Supply Chain: During fiscal 2024, we experienced supply chain constraints for certain components, including graphics processing units (“GPUs”) and accelerated processing units, but they have since eased, in part due to increased availability of supply and lower material and logistics costs. Logistics costs decreased from previously elevated levels as a result of declines in both expedited shipments and overall rate costs in the freight network. We have, in fact, been experiencing higher-than-normal inventory levels, primarily due to customers transitioning to the next generation of GPUs, our securing supply ahead of demand, and longer customer acceptance timelines on AI-related orders; we expect this trend to continue in the medium term. We have experienced, and expect to continue experiencing, rising input component costs and a competitive pricing environment, which may impact our financial results. We plan to mitigate the impact of these dynamics through continued disciplined cost and pricing management. Recurring Revenue and Consumption Models: We continue to strengthen our core server and storage-oriented offerings and expand our offerings on the HPE GreenLake cloud, to deliver our entire portfolio as-a-service (“aaS”) and become the edge-to-cloud company for our customers and partners. We expect that such flexible consumption model will continue to strengthen our customer relationships and contribute to growth in recurring revenue. Foreign Currency Exposure: We have a large global presence, with more than half of our revenue generated outside of the U.S. As a result, our financial results can be, and particularly in recent periods have been, impacted by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. We utilize a comprehensive hedging strategy intended to mitigate the impact of foreign currency volatility over time, and we adjust pricing when possible to further minimize foreign currency impacts. Recent Tax Developments: The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (“OECD”), an international association of 38 countries including the United States, has proposed changes to numerous long-standing tax principles, namely, its Pillar Two framework, which imposes a global minimum corporate tax rate of 15%. To date, 43 countries have enacted portions, or all, of the OECD proposal and a further 22 countries have drafted, or have announced an intent to draft, legislation enacting the proposed rules. Where enacted, the rules begin to be effective for us in fiscal 2025. Under US GAAP, the OECD Pillar Two rules are considered an alternative minimum tax and therefore deferred taxes would not be recognized or adjusted for the estimated effects of the future minimum tax. As a result, there was no impact to our fiscal 2024 results. The adoption and effective dates of these rules may vary by country and could increase tax complexity and uncertainty and may adversely affect our provision for income taxes. We currently do not expect a material impact to our fiscal 2025 results. The Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) is conducting audits of our fiscal 2017 through 2022 U.S. federal income tax returns. During fiscal 2023, the IRS issued notices of proposed adjustments (“NOPAs”) for 2017, 2018, and 2019 relating to our intercompany transfer pricing. During the first quarter of fiscal 2024, the IRS issued a Revenue Agent Report finalizing their position on the NOPAs for the same issues and same fiscal years. However, we disagreed with the IRS’ adjustments and believe the positions taken on our tax returns are more likely than not to prevail on technical merits and have continued with settlement discussions with the IRS. During the third quarter of fiscal 2024, we submitted a formal settlement offer to the IRS to facilitate the closing of the audit and recorded increased reserves for unrecognized tax benefits of $122 million. The impact of the increase in reserves is almost entirely offset with a valuation allowance release, and the net impact to income tax expense for fiscal 2024 was not material. It is reasonably possible that the IRS audit for fiscal 2017 through 2019 may be concluded in the next 12 months, and it is reasonably possible that existing unrecognized tax benefits related to these years may be reduced by an amount up to $358 million within the next 12 months, the majority of which relates to adjustments to foreign tax credits that carry a full valuation allowance or to the timing of intercompany royalty revenue recognition, neither of which affects the Company’s effective tax rate. Other Trends and Uncertainties: The impacts of trade protection measures, including increases in tariffs and trade barriers, changes in government policies and international trade arrangements, geopolitical volatility (including the ongoing conflict in the Middle East), and global macroeconomic challenges (including the relationship between China and the U.S.), may impact our operations, financial performance, and ability to conduct business in some non-U.S. markets. We monitor and seek to mitigate these risks with adjustments to our manufacturing, supply chain, and distribution networks. 42 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Pending Merger with Juniper Networks, Inc: On January 9, 2024 , we entered into a definitive Agreement and Plan of Merger (the “Merger Agreement”) under which we will acquire Juniper Networks in an all-cash transaction for $40.00 per share (the “Merger”), representing an equity value of approximately $14 billion. On April 2, 2024, Juniper Networks shareholders approved the transaction. The transaction is expected to be funded based on senior unsecured delayed draw term loans from a syndicate of banks, the post-tax proceeds from our sale to Unisplendour International Technology Limited (“UNIS”) of 30% of the total issued share capital of H3C Technologies Co., Limited (“H3C”), the net proceeds (including after repayments of maturing debt) of our September 2024 issuances of senior unsecured notes and the Preferred Stock (as further described in Note 15, “Stockholders’ Equity” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II), and cash on the balance sheet. The closing of the transaction remains subject to receipt of regulatory approvals and satisfaction of other customary closing conditions. For further information about the Merger, see Note 10, “ Acquisitions and Dispositions ” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II, and for further discussion about the risks related to the Merger, see the section titled “Risk Factors” in Item 1A of Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The foregoing summary of the Merger, the adoption of the Merger Agreement, and the transactions contemplated thereby does not purport to be complete and is subject to, and qualified in its entirety by, the full text of the Merger Agreement, which is filed as Exhibit 2.1 to our Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on January 10, 2024. The following Executive Overview, Results of Operations and Liquidity discussions and analysis compare fiscal 2024 to fiscal 2023 , unless otherwise noted. The Capital Resources and, Cash Requirements and Commitments sections present information as of October 31, 2024, unless otherwise noted. EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW Net revenue of $30.1 billion represented an increase of 3.4% (increased 3.3% on a constant currency basis) primarily due to higher average unit prices (“AUPs”) in the Server segment, moderated by lower volume and product mix effect in the Intelligent Edge segment. The gross profit margin of 32.8% (or $9.9 billion) represents a decrease of 2.3 percentage points from the prior-year period due to decline in revenue in the Intelligent Edge segment and higher mix of lower margin products in the Server segment. The operating profit margin of 7.3% was relatively flat as compared to the prior-year period. Financial Results The following table summarizes our consolidated GAAP financial results: 43 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) The following table summarizes our consolidated non-GAAP financial results: (1) For purposes of calculating diluted net EPS, the preferred stock dividends are added back to the net earnings attributable to common stockholders and the diluted weighted average share calculation assumes the preferred stock was converted at issuance or as of the beginning of the reporting period. Each non-GAAP financial measure has been reconciled to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure herein. Please refer to the section “GAAP to non-GAAP Reconciliations” included in this MD&A for these reconciliations, a discussion of the use, usefulness and economic substance of the non-GAAP financial measures, along with a discussion of material limitations, and compensation for those limitations, associated with the use of non-GAAP financial measures. Annualized Revenue Run-rate (“ARR”) Our pivot to aaS continues its strong momentum with the addition of HPE GreenLake cloud services. Our mix of ARR is becoming more software-rich as we build our HPE GreenLake cloud, which is improving our margin profile. We will continue to invest aggressively in HPE GreenLake cloud services to provide a true cloud experience and operating model, whether at the edge, on-premises or across multiple clouds. ARR represents the annualized revenue of all net HPE GreenLake cloud services revenue, related financial services revenue (which includes rental income from operating leases and interest income from finance leases), and software-as-a-service (“SaaS”), software consumption revenue, and other aaS offerings, recognized during a quarter and multiplied by four. We believe that ARR is a metric that allows management to better understand and highlight the potential future performance of our aaS business. We also believe ARR provides investors with greater transparency to our financial information and of the performance metric used in our financial and operational decision making and allows investors to see our results “through the eyes of management.” We use ARR as a performance metric. ARR should be viewed independently of net revenue and is not intended to be combined with it. ARR does not have any standardized definition and is therefore unlikely to be comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies. ARR is not a forecast and the active contracts at the end of a reporting period used in calculating ARR may or may not be extended or renewed by our customers. The following table presents our ARR: The 49% year over year increase in ARR was primarily due to growth in our Hybrid Cloud, Server and Intelligent Edge segments, which was due to an expanding customer installed base, an expanded range of HPE GreenLake Flex Solutions, Server aaS, and Intelligent Edge aaS activity. 44 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Capital Returns to Shareholders Returning capital to our shareholders remains an important part of our capital allocation framework, which also consists of strategic investments. We believe our existing balance of cash and cash equivalents, along with commercial paper and other short-term liquidity arrangements, are sufficient to satisfy our working capital needs, capital asset purchases, dividends, debt repayments, and other liquidity requirements associated with our existing operations. As of October 31, 2024, our cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash were $15.1 billion, compared to $4.6 billion as of October 31, 2023, representing an increase of $10.5 billion. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Our Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”), which requires us to make estimates, judgments, and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, net revenue and expenses, and the disclosure of contingent liabilities. A summary of significant accounting policies and a summary of recent accounting pronouncements applicable to our Consolidated Financial Statements are included in Note 1, “Overview and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II. An accounting policy is deemed to be critical if the nature of the estimate or assumption it incorporates is subject to material level of judgment related to matters that are highly uncertain and changes in those estimates and assumptions are reasonably likely to materially impact our Consolidated Financial Statements. Estimates and judgments are based on historical experience, forecasted events, and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Estimates and judgments may vary under different assumptions or conditions. We evaluate our estimates and judgments on an ongoing basis. We believe the accounting policies below are critical in the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations and require management’s most difficult, subjective, or complex judgments. Revenue Recognition We enter into contracts with customers that may include combinations of products and services, resulting in arrangements containing multiple performance obligations for hardware and software products and/or various services. The majority of our revenue is derived from sales of products and services and the associated support and maintenance, and such revenue is recognized when, or as, control of promised products or services is transferred to the customer at the transaction price. Transaction price is adjusted for variable consideration which may be offered in contracts with customers, partners, and distributors and may include rebates, volume-based discounts, price protection, and other incentive programs. Significant judgment is applied in determining the transaction price as we may be required to estimate variable consideration at the time of revenue recognition. When determining the amount of revenue to recognize, we estimate the expected usage of these programs, applying the expected value or most likely estimate and update the estimate at each reporting period as actual utilization becomes available. Variable consideration is recognized only to the extent that it is probable that a significant reversal of revenue will not occur. We also consider the customers' right of return in determining the transaction price, where applicable. To recognize revenue for the products and services for which control has been transferred, we allocate the transaction price for the contract among the performance obligations on a relative standalone selling price (“SSP”) basis. For products and services sold as a bundle, the SSP is generally not directly observable and requires the Company to estimate SSP based on management judgment by considering available data such as internal margin objectives, pricing strategies, market/competitive conditions, historical profitability data, as well as other observable inputs. For certain products and services, the Company establishes SSP based on the observable price when sold separately in similar circumstances to similar customers. The Company establishes SSP ranges for its products and services and reassesses them periodically. Taxes on Earnings We calculate our current and deferred tax provisions based on estimates and assumptions that could differ from the final positions reflected in our income tax returns. We adjust our current and deferred tax provisions based on our tax returns which are generally filed in the third or fourth quarters of the subsequent fiscal year. 45 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected tax consequences of temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which we expect the differences to reverse. We record a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that we are more likely than not to realize. In determining the need for a valuation allowance, we consider future market growth, forecasted earnings, future sources of taxable income, the mix of earnings in the jurisdictions in which we operate, and prudent and feasible tax planning strategies. In order for us to realize our deferred tax assets, we must be able to generate sufficient taxable income, of the appropriate character, in the jurisdictions in which the deferred tax assets are located, prior to their expiration under applicable tax laws. Our effective tax rate includes the impact of certain undistributed foreign earnings and basis differences for which we have not provided for U.S. federal taxes because we plan to reinvest such earnings and basis differences indefinitely outside the U.S. We will remit non-indefinitely reinvested earnings of our non-U.S. subsidiaries for which deferred U.S. state income and foreign withholding taxes have been provided where excess cash has accumulated and when we determine that it is advantageous for business operations, tax, or cash management reasons. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and approximately 80 other countries, and we are subject to routine corporate income tax audits in many of these jurisdictions. We believe that positions taken on our tax returns are fully supported, but tax authorities may challenge these positions, which may not be fully sustained on examination by the relevant tax authorities. Accordingly, our income tax provision includes amounts intended to satisfy assessments that may result from these challenges. Determining the income tax provision for these potential assessments and recording the related effects requires management judgments and estimates. The amounts ultimately paid on resolution of an audit could be materially different from the amounts previously included in our income tax provision and, therefore, could have a material impact on our Provision for taxes, Net earnings and cash flows. Our accrual for uncertain tax positions is attributable primarily to uncertainties concerning the tax treatment of our international operations, including the allocation of income among different jurisdictions, intercompany transactions and related interest, and uncertain tax positions from acquired companies. For further discussion on taxes on earnings, refer to Note 6, “Taxes on Earnings,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II. Goodwill We review goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level annually on the first day of the fourth quarter, or whenever events or circumstances indicate the carrying amount of goodwill may not be recoverable. We are permitted to conduct a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is necessary to perform a quantitative goodwill impairment test. As of October 31, 2024, our reporting units with goodwill are consistent with the reportable segments identified in Note 2, “Segment Information” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II, with the exception of Server, which contains two reporting units:  Compute and High Performance Computing & AI (“HPC & AI”), and  Corporate Investments and Other which contains two reporting units: Advisory and Professional Services, and legacy Communications and Media Solutions. When performing the goodwill impairment test, we compare the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying amount. An impairment exists if the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. Estimating the fair value of a reporting unit is judgmental in nature and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. We estimate the fair value of our reporting units using a weighting of fair values derived mostly from the income approach and, to a lesser extent, the market approach. Under the income approach, the fair value of a reporting unit is based on discounted cash flow analysis of management's short-term and long-term forecast of operating performance. This analysis includes significant assumptions regarding revenue growth rates, expected operating margins, and timing of expected future cash flows based on market conditions and customer acceptances. The discount rate used is based on the weighted-average cost of capital of comparable public companies adjusted for the relevant risk associated with business specific characteristics and the uncertainty related to the reporting unit's ability to execute on the projected cash flows. Under the market approach, the fair value is based on market multiples of revenue and earnings derived from comparable publicly traded companies with operating and investment characteristics similar to the reporting unit. We weight the fair value derived from the market approach commensurate with the level of comparability of these publicly traded companies to the reporting unit. When market comparables are not meaningful or not available, we estimate the fair value of a reporting unit using the income approach. In addition, we make certain judgments and assumptions in allocating shared assets and liabilities to individual reporting units to determine the carrying amount of each reporting unit. 46 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Annual Goodwill Impairment Review Our annual goodwill impairment analysis, which we performed as of the first day of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2024, did not result in any impairment charges. The excess of fair value over carrying amount for our reporting units ranged from approximately 8% to 198% of the respective carrying amounts. In order to evaluate the sensitivity of the estimated fair value of our reporting units in the goodwill impairment test, we applied a hypothetical 10% decrease to the fair value of each reporting unit. Based on the results of this hypothetical 10% decrease all of the reporting units had an excess of fair value over carrying amount, except for HPC & AI and Hybrid Cloud. The HPC & AI reporting unit has goodwill of $2.0 billion as of October 31, 2024, and excess of fair value over carrying value of 11% as of the annual test date. The HPC & AI business is growing at a very fast pace driven primarily by the AI demand from model builders, but as GPUs represent a large portion of the solutions, the pricing is very competitive and margins are limited. With the growth of AI in enterprise and sovereign customer segments and key strategic differentiators, such as direct liquid cooling, we believe that there is a potential for continued growth over time. Interim Goodwill Impairment Reviews In September 2024, HPE sold 30% of the total issued share capital of H3C to UNIS. The equity investment in H3C primarily benefits the Compute and Hybrid Cloud reporting units. Subsequent to the sale, on September 30, 2024, we performed an interim goodwill impairment analysis for Compute and Hybrid Cloud reporting units. The excess of fair value over carrying amount for these reporting units was 6% for Compute and 5% for Hybrid Cloud. We also applied a hypothetical 10% decrease to the fair value of Compute and Hybrid Cloud, noting that neither had an excess of fair value over carrying amount. The Compute reporting unit has goodwill of $8.2 billion as of October 31, 2024, and excess of fair value over carrying value of 6% as of the September 30, 2024 interim test date. The Compute business is cyclical in nature. Over the last several years, digital transformation drove increased investment to modernize infrastructure. However, in the current macroeconomic and inflationary environment, customers have invested selectively resulting in moderate unit growth and competitive pricing. The Compute business continues to focus on capturing market share while maintaining operating margin, leveraging its strong portfolio of ProLiant Gen11 products. The Hybrid Cloud reporting unit has goodwill of $4.8 billion as of October 31, 2024, and excess of fair value over carrying value of 5% as of the September 30, 2024 interim test date. Although the Hybrid Cloud business is on a positive trajectory, we are managing both a sales model transition and product transition within this business. Our product model transition is to a more cloud-native, software-defined platform with HPE Alletra. Translating this growth to revenue and operating income will take time because a greater mix of high margin business such as ratable software and services, is deferred and recognized in future periods. Our interim 2024 goodwill impairment test performed as of November 1, 2023 based on organizational changes impacting the composition of reporting units as of that date did not result in any impairment charges. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Revenue from our international operations has historically represented, and we expect will continue to represent, a majority of our overall net revenue. As a result, our revenue growth has been impacted, and we expect will continue to be impacted, by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. In order to provide a framework for assessing performance excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, we present the year-over-year percentage change in revenue on a constant currency basis, which assumes no change in foreign currency exchange rates from the prior-year period and does not adjust for any repricing or demand impacts from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. This change in revenue on a constant currency basis is calculated as the quotient of (a) current year revenue converted to U.S. dollars using the prior-year period's foreign currency exchange rates divided by (b) the prior-year period revenue. This information is provided so that revenue can be viewed without the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which is consistent with how management evaluates our revenue results and trends. This constant currency disclosure is provided in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the year-over-year percentage change in revenue on a GAAP basis. Other companies may calculate and define similarly labeled items differently, which may limit the usefulness of this measure for comparative purposes. 47 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Results of operations in dollars and as a percentage of net revenue were as follows: Fiscal 2024 compared with fiscal 2023 Net revenue In fiscal 2024, total net revenue of $30.1 billion represented an increase of $992 million, or 3.4% (increased 3.3% on a constant currency basis). U.S. net revenue increased by $521 million, or 5.0% to $10.9 billion, and net revenue from outside of the U.S. increased by $471 million, or 2.5%, to $19.2 billion. The components of the weighted net revenue change by segment were as follows: 48 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Fiscal 2024 compared with fiscal 2023 From a segment perspective, the primary factors contributing to the change in total net revenue are summarized as follows: • Server net revenue increased $1,844 million, or 12.8%, primarily due to higher AUPs • Hybrid Cloud net revenue decreased $107 million, or 1.9%, primarily due to lower AUPs • Intelligent Edge net revenue decreased $847 million, or 15.7%, primarily due to lower volume and product mix effect • Financial Services net revenue increased $32 million, or 0.9%, primarily due to higher finance income • Corporate Investments and Other net revenue increased $29 million, or 2.9%, primarily due to revenue growth from Advisory and Professional Services (“A & PS”) Fiscal 2023 compared with fiscal 2022 From a segment perspective, the primary factors contributing to the change in total net revenue are summarized as follows: • Server net revenue decreased $1,111 million, or 7.2%, primarily due to lower server unit volume and unfavorable currency fluctuations • Hybrid Cloud net revenue increased $260 million, or 5.0%, primarily due to higher unit volume • Intelligent Edge net revenue increased $1,522 million, or 39.5%, primarily due to increased AUPs and volume and product mix effect • Financial Services net revenue increased $141 million, or 4.2%, primarily due to higher rental revenue from higher average operating leases and higher finance income on finance leases due to an increasing interest rate environment • Corporate Investments and Other net revenue decreased $27 million, or 2.7%, primarily due to unfavorable currency fluctuations Gross Profit Fiscal 2024 total gross profit margin of 32.8% represents a decrease of 2.3 percentage points as compared to the respective prior year period. The decrease was primarily due to decline in revenue in the Intelligent Edge segment and higher mix of lower margin products in the Server segment. Operating expenses Research and development (“R&D”) R&D expense decreased by $103 million, or 4.4%, primarily due to capitalization of software costs, which contributed 4.2 percentage points to the change. Selling, general and administrative (“SG&A”) SG&A expense decreased by $289 million, or 5.6%, primarily due to lower employee costs, which contributed 3.3 percentage points, lower travel and marketing expenses and lower consulting costs, both of which contributed 1.4 percentage points to the change. Transformation programs and costs Our transformation programs consist of the Cost Optimization and Prioritization Plan (launched in 2020) and the HPE Next Plan (launched in 2017). Transformation costs decreased by $190 million, or 67.1%, due to lower charges incurred in the current period as the primary elements of these plans have been substantially completed by the end of fiscal 2023. Refer to Note 3, “Transformation Programs” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II for further discussion. Acquisition, disposition and other related charges Acquisition, disposition and other related charges increased by $135 million or 195.7%, primarily due to costs incurred in connection with the pending acquisition of Juniper Networks. 49 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Interest and other, net Interest and other, net expense increased by $13 million or 12.5%, primarily due to lower gain from sale of certain investments and unfavorable currency fluctuations in the current year and the previous year containing tax indemnification income due to an audit settlement. The increase was partially offset by a decrease in net interest expense and lower loss on equity investments in the current year. Gain on sale of equity interest On September 4, 2024, the Company divested 30% of the total issued share capital of H3C to UNIS. We continue to possess the option to sell the remaining 19% of the total issued share capital of H3C at a later date. In connection with this sale, we recorded a gain on sale of equity interest of $733 million. Earnings from equity interests In fiscal 2024, Earnings from equity interests decreased by $98 million or 40%, primarily due to lower net income earned by H3C and the disposition of 30% of the total issued share capital of H3C, partially offset by lower amortization expense from basis difference in the current period. Provision for taxes For fiscal 2024 and 2023, we recorded income tax expense of $374 million and $205 million, respectively, which reflect effective tax rates of 12.7% and 9.2%, respectively. Our effective tax rate generally differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% due to favorable tax rates associated with certain earnings from our operations in lower tax jurisdictions throughout the world but may also be materially impacted by discrete tax adjustments during the fiscal year. The jurisdictions with favorable tax rates that had the most significant impact on our effective tax rate in the periods presented include Puerto Rico and Singapore. In fiscal 2024, we recorded $43 million of net income tax charges related to items discrete to the year. These amounts primarily included: • $104 million of net income tax charges resulting from the gain on the H3C divestiture, which includes $215 million of U.S. and foreign income tax charges offset by $111 million of income tax benefit for the release of an uncertain tax benefit related to the prior divestiture, partially offset by • $54 million of income tax benefits related to transformation costs, and acquisition, disposition and other related charges and • $11 million of net excess tax benefits related to stock-based compensation. In fiscal 2023, we recorded $131 million of net income tax benefits related to items discrete to the year. These amounts primarily included: • $104 million of income tax benefits related to transformation costs and acquisition, disposition and other related charges and • $19 million of net excess tax benefits related to stock-based compensation. Segment Information Hewlett Packard Enterprise's organizational structure is based on a number of factors that the Chief Operating Decision Maker, who is the CEO, uses to evaluate, view, and run our business operations, which include, but are not limited to, customer base and homogeneity of products and technology. The segments are based on this organizational structure and information reviewed by Hewlett Packard Enterprise's management to evaluate segment results. A description of the products and services for each segment, along with other pertinent information related to Segments can be found in Note 2, “Segment Information,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II. 50 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Segment Results The following provides an overview of our key financial metrics by segment for fiscal 2024 as compared to fiscal 2023: (1) HPE consolidated net revenue excludes inter-segment net revenue. (2) Segment earnings from operations exclude certain unallocated corporate costs and eliminations, stock-based compensation expense, amortization of intangible assets, impairment of goodwill, transformation costs, disaster charges, divestiture related exit costs, and acquisition, disposition and other related charges. Server Fiscal 2024 compared with fiscal 2023 Server net revenue increased by $1,844 million, or 12.8% in actual dollars and constant currency, primarily due to a $1,812 million, or 16.7%, increase in product revenue. The increase in product revenue was primarily due to higher AUPs of $1,769 million, or 16.3%. Server earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue decreased 1.5 percentage points primarily due to an increase in costs of products as a percentage of net revenue, moderated by a decrease in operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue. The increase in costs of products as a percentage of net revenue was primarily due to higher mix of lower margin products and competitive pricing pressure. The decrease in operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue was primarily due to lower total operating expenses as a result of cost containment measures. Fiscal 2023 compared with fiscal 2022 Server net revenue decreased by $1,111 million, or 7.2% (decreased 3.5% on a constant currency basis), primarily due to a $1,061 million, or 8.9%, decrease in product revenue. The decline in product revenue was primarily due to lower server unit volume of $1,281 million, or 10.7%, and unfavorable currency fluctuations of $458 million, or 3.8%. The product revenue decline was moderated by an increase in AUPs of $683 million, or 5.7%, led by higher sales of server configurations with more complex component architectures in our next generation products. Server earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue remained relatively flat. 51 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Hybrid Cloud Fiscal 2024 compared with fiscal 2023 Hybrid Cloud net revenue decreased by $107 million, or 1.9% (decreased 2.0% on a constant currency basis) primarily due to a decrease in AUPs, partially offset by an increase in unit volume. Hybrid Cloud product revenue decreased $267 million, or 8.1%, primarily due to a decrease in AUPs of $831 million, or 25.2%, led by private cloud and storage products, partially offset by a unit volume increase of $543 million or 16.5%, led by private cloud and storage products. Hybrid Cloud services revenue increased by $160 million, or 7.3%, primarily due to a unit volume increase of $275 million, or 12.5%, led by private cloud and infrastructure SaaS. This increase was partially offset by lower AUPs of $107 million, or 4.9%. Hybrid Cloud earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue remained relatively flat as compared to the prior-year period. Fiscal 2023 compared with fiscal 2022 Hybrid Cloud net revenue increased by $260 million, or 5.0% (increased 8.2% on a constant currency basis) primarily due to an increase in unit volume, partially offset by unfavorable currency fluctuations and decrease in AUPs. Hybrid Cloud product revenue increased by $180 million, or 5.8%, primarily due to an increase in unit volume of $371 million or 11.9%, led by private cloud and infrastructure SaaS. The increase in product revenue was moderated by unfavorable currency fluctuations of $130 million or 4.2%, and a decrease in AUPs of $39 million or 1.3%. Hybrid Cloud services revenue increased by $80 million, or 3.8%, primarily due to a unit volume increase of $178 million, or 8.4%, led by private cloud and infrastructure SaaS. The increase in service revenue was partially offset by decrease in AUPs of $43 million or 2.0% and unfavorable currency fluctuations of $40 million or 1.9%. Hybrid Cloud earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue decreased 4.7 percentage points due to an increase in cost of products sold as a percentage of net revenue and an increase in operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue. The increase in cost of products and services as a percentage of net revenue was primarily due to lower margin GreenLake Flex Solutions deals and decrease in storage subscription revenue. The increase in operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue was primarily due to the unfavorable currency fluctuations. Intelligent Edge 52 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Fiscal 2024 compared with fiscal 2023 Intelligent Edge net revenue decreased by $847 million, or 15.7% (decreased 15.9% on a constant currency basis). Product revenue decreased by $1,050 million, or 23.9%, led by lower volume and product mix effect of $876 million, or 19.9%, and lower AUPs of $183 million, or 4.2%. The product revenue decrease was led by switching products and wireless local area network products due to softened demand. Services net revenue increased $203 million, or 20.6%, primarily led by our aaS and attached support service offerings. Intelligent Edge earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue decreased 0.4 percentage points primarily due to increase in operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue, partially offset by a decrease in cost of products and services as a percentage of net revenue. Operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue increased primarily due to scale of net revenue decline, higher employee costs related to acquisitions and investments to enhance Aruba offerings in GreenLake. The decrease in cost of product and services as a percentage of net revenue was primarily due to favorable revenue mix and cost containment measures. Fiscal 2023 compared with fiscal 2022 Intelligent Edge net revenue increased by $1,522 million, or 39.5% (increased 42.5% on a constant currency basis). Product revenue increased by $1,396 million, or 46.5%, led by higher AUPs of $1,284 million, or 42.8%, and a volume and product mix effect of $217 million, or 7.2%, moderated by unfavorable currency fluctuations of $106 million, or 3.5%. The product revenue increase was led by switching and wireless local area network products, which benefited from improvements in the supply availability, and elevated order book levels at the beginning of the period. Services net revenue increased $127 million, or 14.8%, primarily led by our aaS and attached support service offerings. Intelligent Edge earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue increased 10.9 percentage points primarily due to decreases in cost of products and services as a percentage of net revenue and operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue. The decrease in cost of product and services as a percentage of net revenue was primarily due to lower supply chain costs, moderating the decrease was a lower mix of higher-margin support services revenue. Operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue decreased primarily due to our cost containment measures. Financial Services Fiscal 2024 compared with fiscal 2023 FS net revenue increased by $32 million, or 0.9% (increased 0.6% on a constant currency basis) primarily due to higher finance income from higher average finance leases in a higher interest rate environment, along with favorable currency fluctuations, partially offset by lower rental revenue on lower average operating leases and lower asset management lease buyout revenue. FS earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue increased 0.9 percentage points, although the cost of services as a percentage of net revenue and operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue were relatively flat. Fiscal 2023 compared with fiscal 2022 FS net revenue increased by $141 million, or 4.2% (increased 5.4% on a constant currency basis) due primarily to higher rental revenue from higher average operating leases and higher finance income on finance leases due to an increasing interest rate environment, partially offset by lower asset management revenue primarily from lower pre-owned asset sales and unfavorable currency fluctuations. FS earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue decreased 3.5% percentage points due primarily to an increase in cost of services as a percentage of net revenue, while operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue were 53 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) relatively flat. The increase to cost of services as a percentage of net revenue resulted primarily from a combination of higher borrowing costs and higher depreciation expense, partially offset by lower bad debt expense. Financing Volume Financing volume, which represents the amount of financing provided to customers for equipment and related software and services, including intercompany activity, increased by 3.2% in fiscal 2024 as compared to the prior-year period. The increase was primarily driven by higher financing of HPE product sales and services, partially offset by lower financing of third-party product sales and services. Portfolio Assets and Ratios The FS business model is asset intensive and uses certain internal metrics to measure its performance against other financial services companies, including a segment balance sheet that is derived from our internal management reporting system. The accounting policies used to derive FS amounts are substantially the same as those used by the Company. However, intercompany loans and certain accounts that are reflected in the segment balances are eliminated in our Consolidated Financial Statements. The portfolio assets and ratios derived from the segment balance sheets for FS were as follows: (1) Intercompany activity is eliminated in consolidation. (2) Allowance for credit losses for financing receivables includes both the short- and long-term portions. (3) Debt benefiting FS consists of intercompany equity that is treated as debt for segment reporting purposes, intercompany debt, and borrowing- and funding-related activity associated with FS and its subsidiaries. Debt benefiting FS totaled $11.8 billion and $11.6 billion at October 31, 2024 and 2023, respectively, and was determined by applying an assumed debt-to-equity ratio, which management believes to be comparable to that of other similar financing companies. FS equity at October 31, 2024 and 2023, was $1.7 billion and $1.7 billion, respectively. As of October 31, 2024 and 2023, FS net cash and cash equivalents balances were $533 million and $700 million, respectively. Net portfolio assets as of October 31, 2024 increased 3.9% from October 31, 2023. The increase generally resulted from new financing volume exceeding portfolio runoff during the period, along with favorable currency fluctuations. 54 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) FS bad debt expense includes charges to general reserves, specific reserves and write-offs for sales-type, direct-financing and operating leases. FS recorded net bad debt expense of $57 million, $59 million and $82 million in fiscal 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Corporate Investments and Other Fiscal 2024 compared with fiscal 2023 Corporate Investments and Other net revenue increased by $29 million, or 2.9% (increased 4.3% on a constant currency basis) primarily due to revenue growth from A & PS, partially offset by unfavorable currency fluctuations. Corporate Investments and Other loss from operations as a percentage of net revenue decreased 5.3 percenta ge points primarily due to decreases in cost of services as a percentage of net revenue resulting from our cost containment measures, and decreases in operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue due to the scale of net revenue growth and lower total operating expenses. Fiscal 2023 compared with fiscal 2022 Corporate Investments and Other net revenue decreased by $27 million, or 2.7% (increased 2.1% on a constant currency basis) primarily due to unfavorable currency fluctuations. Corporate Investments and Other loss from operations as a percentage of net revenue increased 5.2 percentage points primarily due to increases in cost of services as a percentage of net revenue while operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue remained relatively flat. Cost of services as a percentage of net revenue increased primarily due to the scale of net revenue decline and increases in cost of services due to unfavorable currency fluctuations and higher expenses. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Current Overview We use cash generated by operations as our primary source of liquidity. We believe that internally generated cash flows will be generally sufficient to support our operating businesses, capital expenditures, product development initiatives, acquisitions and disposal activities including legal settlements, restructuring activities, transformation costs, indemnifications, maturing debt, interest payments, and income tax payments, in addition to any future investments, share repurchases, and shareholder dividend payments. We expect to supplement this short-term liquidity, if necessary, by accessing the capital markets, issuing commercial paper, and borrowing under credit facilities made available by various domestic and foreign financial institutions. However, our access to capital markets may be constrained and our cost of borrowing may increase under certain business, market and economic conditions. We anticipate that the funds made available, including the debt funding related to the pending merger with Juniper Networks, proceeds from issuance of the Preferred Stock and proceeds from the sale of 30% of the total issued share capital of H3C, and cash generated from our operations, along with our access to capital markets, will be sufficient to meet our liquidity requirements for at least the next twelve months (including for the payment of consideration to consummate the Juniper Networks transaction) and for the foreseeable future thereafter.  Our liquidity is subject to various risks including the risks identified in the section entitled “Risk Factors” in Item 1A and market risks identified in the section entitled “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” in Item 7A. Our cash balances are held in numerous locations throughout the world, with a substantial amount held in the U.S. as of October 31, 2024. We utilize a variety of planning and financing strategies in an effort to ensure that our worldwide cash is available when and where it is needed. Amounts held outside of the U.S. are generally utilized to support our non-U.S. liquidity needs. Repatriations of amounts held outside the U.S. generally will not be taxable from a U.S. federal tax perspective, but may be subject to state income or 55 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) foreign withholding tax. Where local restrictions prevent an efficient intercompany transfer of funds, our intent is to keep cash balances outside of the U.S. and to meet liquidity needs through ongoing cash flows, external borrowings, or both. We do not expect restrictions or potential taxes incurred on repatriation of amounts held outside of the U.S. to have a material effect on our overall liquidity, financial condition, or results of operations. In connection with the share repurchase program previously authorized by our Board of Directors, during fiscal 2024, we repurchased and settled an aggregate amount of $150 million. As of October 31, 2024, we had a remaining authorization of approximately $0.8 billion for future share repurchases. For more information on our share repurchase program, refer to Note 15, “Stockholders' Equity,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II. On May 23, 2024, we announced plans to divest our Communications Technology Group (“CTG”) business to HCLTech. CTG is included in our Communications and Media Solutions business, which is reported in the Corporate Investments and Other segment. This divestiture includes the platform-based software solutions portions of the CTG portfolio, including systems integration, network applications, data intelligence, and the business support systems groups. As of October 31, 2024, assets and liabilities to be sold have been presented in our Consolidated Balance Sheets as assets and liabilities held for sale. On December 1, 2024, we completed the disposition of CTG. We received net proceeds of $210 million and expect to recognize a gain of approximately $230 million. On January 9, 2024, we entered into the Merger Agreement, under which HPE will acquire Juniper Networks in an all-cash transaction for $40.00 per share, representing an equity value of approximately $14 billion. The transaction was unanimously approved by the boards of directors of both companies. On April 2, 2024, Juniper Networks shareholders approved the transaction. The closing of the transaction remains subject to receipt of regulatory approvals and satisfaction of other customary closing conditions. In connection with the merger, we entered into a commitment letter whereby we obtained a commitment from Citigroup Global Markets Inc., JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Mizuho Bank, Ltd. for a $14.0 billion senior unsecured delayed draw term loan facility, comprised of an $11.0 billion 364-day tranche and a $3.0 billion three-year tranche, subject to customary conditions (the “Term Loan Commitment Letter”). In September 2024, we issued $9.0 billion of senior unsecured notes and $1.5 billion of Preferred Stock, the net proceeds of which we intend to use to fund a portion of the consideration for the acquisition of Juniper Networks and for other general corporate purposes, which may include, among other uses, repaying certain indebtedness of HPE, Juniper Networks and our and its respective subsidiaries. In addition, in furtherance of the Term Loan Commitment Letter, we entered into term loan agreements with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A, Citibank, N.A., and Mizuho Bank, Ltd. for approximately $12.0 billion of senior unsecured delayed draw term loan facilities, comprised of an approximately $9.0 billion 364-day tranche (which was reduced from the original commitment of $11.0 billion, upon receipt and application of approximately $2.0 billion in post-tax proceeds from our sale to UNIS of 30% of the total issued share capital of H3C, as further described below) and a $3.0 billion three-year tranche, subject to customary conditions. We have since further reduced the commitments under the 364-day term loan to $1.0 billion upon receipt and application of certain proceeds from the aforementioned issuance of senior unsecured notes and the Preferred Stock. Unless previously terminated, commitments under both the 364-day term loan and the three-year term loan will terminate upon the earliest of (i) five business days after the Juniper Outside Date (as defined in such term loan agreements), (ii) the occurrence of the closing of the acquisition of Juniper Networks without the funding of any borrowings under either of the term loan agreements, and (iii) the termination of the Merger Agreement by HPE in writing in accordance with its terms. In connection with the entry into the aforementioned 364-day term loan and the three-year term loan, on September 12, 2024, we terminated the Term Loan Commitment Letter. In September 2024, we issued 30 million shares of the Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, for an aggregate purchase price of $1.5 billion, less issuance costs of $38 million. As of October 31, 2024, 30 million shares of the Preferred Stock was outstanding. We intend to use these net proceeds as indicated above. For more information on our Preferred Stock, refer to Note 15, “Stockholders' Equity,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II. Pursuant to the Shareholders' Agreement among our relevant subsidiaries, UNIS, and H3C dated as of May 1, 2016, as amended from time to time, and most recently on October 28, 2022, we delivered a notice to UNIS on December 30, 2022, to exercise our right to put to UNIS, for cash consideration, all of the H3C shares held by us, which represent 49% of the total issued share capital of H3C. On May 26, 2023, our relevant subsidiaries entered into a Put Share Purchase Agreement with UNIS, whereby UNIS has agreed to purchase all of the H3C shares held by us, through our subsidiaries. On May 24, 2024, our relevant subsidiaries entered into (i) an Amended and Restated Put Share Purchase Agreement with UNIS, whereby our relevant subsidiaries shall sell to UNIS 30% of the total issued share capital of H3C for pre-tax cash consideration of approximately $2.1 billion by August 31, 2024 (the “Sale Transaction”), and (ii) an Agreement on Subsequent Arrangements with UNIS, whereby upon closing of the Sale Transaction, our relevant subsidiary shall have a put option to sell to UNIS and 56 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) UNIS shall have a call option to purchase from our relevant subsidiary 19% of the total issued share capital of H3C for pre-tax cash consideration of approximately $1.4 billion between the 16 th month and until the 36 th month after the Sale Transaction. The transactions referenced in clauses (i) and (ii) above, taken together, revise the arrangements governing the aforementioned sale of all of the H3C shares held by us, through our subsidiaries and are subject to certain grace periods and regulatory approvals. On September 4, 2024, pursuant to the Amended and Restated Put Share Purchase Agreement with UNIS, we received $2.1 billion of pre-tax consideration ($2.0 billion post-tax), in connection with the sale to UNIS of 30% of the total issued share capital of H3C. Liquidity Our cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, total debt and available borrowing resources were as follows: (1) Excludes the financing commitment for the Juniper Networks acquisition. The maximum aggregate commitment under this facility is $4.0 billion, however, no balances were outstanding under this facility as of October 31, 2024. (2)     The maximum aggregate borrowing amount of the commercial paper programs and revolving credit facility is $5.75 billion. (3)    The maximum aggregate capacity under the uncommitted lines of credit is $1.5 billion of which $0.6 billion was primarily utilized towards issuances of bank guarantees. The following tables represent the way in which management reviews cash flows: Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities decreased by $87 million for fiscal 2024, as compared to fiscal 2023. The decrease was primarily due to higher cash payouts for variable compensation, unfavorable impacts from financing receivables, and lower cash generated from operations. The decrease was moderated by favorable working capital, as compared to the prior-year period. 57 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Our working capital metrics and cash conversion impacts were as follows: The cash conversion cycle is the sum of DSO and DOS less DPO. Items which may cause the cash conversion cycle in a particular period to differ include, but are not limited to, changes in business mix, changes in payment terms (including extended payment terms to customers or from suppliers), early or late invoice payments from customers or to suppliers, the extent of receivables factoring, seasonal trends, the timing of the revenue recognition and inventory purchases within the period, the impact of commodity costs and acquisition activity. DSO measures the average number of days our receivables are outstanding. DSO is calculated by dividing ending accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts, by a 90-day average of net revenue. Compared to the corresponding three-month period in fiscal 2023, the decrease in DSO by 5 days in the current period was primarily due to higher early collections. DOS measures the average number of days from procurement to sale of our products. DOS is calculated by dividing ending inventory by a 90-day average of cost of goods sold. Compared to the corresponding three-month period in fiscal 2023, the increase in DOS by 33 days in the current period was primarily due to higher inventory levels caused by strategic purchases of key components to support growth in AI systems. DPO measures the average number of days our accounts payable balances are outstanding. DPO is calculated by dividing ending accounts payable by a 90-day average of cost of goods sold. Compared to the corresponding three-month period in fiscal 2023, the increase in DPO by 36 days in the current period was primarily due to higher inventory purchases. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities decreased by $3.2 billion in fiscal 2024, as compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2023. The decrease was primarily due to proceeds from UNIS in connection with the sale of 30% of the total issued share capital of H3C of $2.1 billion, lower net payments made in connection with business acquisitions of $0.6 billion, lower cash utilized in net financial collateral activities of $0.2 billion, and lower investments in property, plant and equipment and software assets, net of sales proceeds of $0.2 billion, as compared to the prior-year period. Financing Activities Net cash provided by financing activities increased by $7.6 billion in fiscal 2024, as compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2023. This was primarily due to higher proceeds from debt issuance (net of issuance costs) of $6.5 billion, proceeds from the issuance of the Preferred Stock (net of issuance costs) of $1.5 billion, and lower share repurchases of $0.3 billion, partially offset by higher repayments of debt of $0.6 billion, as compared to the prior-year period. 58 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Free Cash Flow Free cash flow (“FCF”) represents cash flow from operations less net capital expenditures (investments in property, plant and equipment (“PP&E”) and software assets less proceeds from the sale of PP&E), and adjusted for the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash. FCF increased by $0.1 billion, as compared to the corresponding period in fiscal 2023. This was primarily due to lower net capital expenditures, as compared to the prior-year period. For more information on our FCF, refer to the section entitled “GAAP to non-GAAP Reconciliations” included in this MD&A. For more information on the impact of operating assets and liabilities to our cash flows, see Note 7, “Balance Sheet Details,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II. Capital Resources Debt Levels We maintain debt levels that we establish through consideration of several factors, including cash flow expectations, cash requirements for operations, investment plans (including acquisitions), share repurchase activities, our cost of capital, and targeted capital structure. We maintain a revolving credit facility and two commercial paper programs, “the Parent Programs”, and a wholly-owned subsidiary maintains a third program. In September 2024, we terminated the prior senior unsecured revolving credit facility that was entered into in December 2021, and entered into a new senior unsecured revolving credit facility with an aggregate lending commitment of $5.25 billion for a period of five years. The commitment is comprised of (i) $4.75 billion of commitments available immediately and (ii) $500 million of commitments available from and subject to the closing of the Juniper Networks acquisition and refinancing of Juniper Networks’ credit agreement in connection with the closing of the Juniper Networks acquisition. There have been no changes to our commercial paper programs since October 31, 2023. As noted above, we are also party to two senior unsecured delayed draw term loan facilities, comprised of a $1.0 billion 364-day tranche and a $3.0 billion three-year tranche, subject to customary conditions. Unless previously terminated, commitments under both the 364-day term loan and the three-year term loan will terminate upon the earliest of (i) five business days after the Juniper Outside Date (as defined in such term loan agreements), (ii) the occurrence of the closing of the acquisition of Juniper Networks without the funding of any borrowings under either of the term loan agreements, and (iii) the termination of the Merger Agreement by HPE in writing in accordance with its terms. In December 2023, we filed a shelf registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission that allows us to sell, at any time and from time to time, in one or more offerings, debt securities, preferred stock, common stock, warrants, depository shares, purchase contracts, guarantees or units consisting of any of these securities. Significant funding and liquidity activities for fiscal 2024 were as follows: Debt Issuances: • In September 2024, we issued (i) $1.25 billion of 4.45% Senior Notes due September 25, 2026, (ii) $1.25 billion of 4.40% Senior Notes due September 25, 2027, (iii) $1.75 billion of 4.55% Senior Notes due October 15, 2029, (iv) $1.25 billion of 4.85% Senior Notes due October 15, 2031, (v) $2.0 billion of 5.00% Senior Notes due October 15, 2034, and (vi) $1.5 billion of 5.60% Senior Notes due October 15, 2054. • In June 2024, we issued $818 million of asset-backed debt securities in six tranches with a weighted average interest rate of 5.593% and final maturity date of April 2032. • In January 2024, we issued $796 million of asset-backed debt securities in six tranches with a weighted average interest rate of 5.476% and final maturity date of November 2031. 59 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Debt Repayments: • In October 2024, we redeemed $400 million of 6.102% Senior Notes with an original maturity date of April 1, 2026, utilizing the par call option on the debt, with no redemption penalties. • In October 2024, we repaid $1.6 billion of 5.90% Senior Notes on their original maturity date. • In April 2024, we repaid $1.0 billion of 1.45% Senior Notes on their original maturity date. • During fiscal 2024, we repaid $1,691 million of the outstanding asset-backed debt securities. Our weighted-average interest rate reflects the average effective rate on our borrowings prevailing during the period and reflects the impact of interest rate swaps. For more information on our interest rate swaps, see Note 13, “Financial Instruments,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II. For more information on our available borrowing resources and the impact of operating assets and liabilities to cash flows, see Note 14, “Borrowings,” and Note 7, “Balance Sheet Details,” respectively, to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II. Cash Requirements and Commitments Long-term debt and interest payments on debt As of October 31, 2024, future principal payment obligations on our long-term debt including asset-backed debt securities totaled $17.6 billion of which $4.0 billion is due within one year. As of October 31, 2024, our finance lease obligations, including interest, was $42 million, of which $7 million is to be due within one year. For more information on our debt, see Note 14, “Borrowings,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II. As of October 31, 2024, future interest payments relating to our long-term debt is estimated to be approximately $7.6 billion, of which $0.9 billion is expected to be due within one year. We use interest rate swaps to mitigate the exposure of our fixed rate debt to changes in fair value resulting from changes in interest rates, or hedge the variability of cash flows in the interest payments associated with our variable-rate debt. The impact of our outstanding interest rate swaps as of October 31, 2024 was factored into the calculation of the future interest payments on long-term debt. Operating lease obligations We enter into various leases as a lessee for assets including office buildings, data centers, vehicles, and aviation. As of October 31, 2024, operating lease obligations, net of sublease rental income totaled $1.7 billion, of which $286 million is due within one year. For more information on our leases, see Note 8, “Accounting for Leases as a Lessee,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II. Unconditional purchase obligations Our unconditional purchase obligations are related principally to inventory purchases, software maintenance and support services and other items. Unconditional purchase obligations exclude agreements that are cancellable without penalty. As of October 31, 2024, unconditional purchase obligations totaled $1.3 billion, of which $556 million is due within one year. For more information on our unconditional purchase obligations, see Note 17, “Litigation, Contingencies, and Commitments,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II. Retirement Benefit Plan Funding In fiscal 2024, we anticipate making contributions of $189 million to our non-U.S. pension plans. Our policy is to fund pension plans to meet at least the minimum contribution requirements, as established by various authorities including local government and taxing authorities. Expected contributions and payments to our pension and post-retirement benefit plans are not considered as contractual obligations because they do not represent contractual cash outflows, as they are dependent on numerous factors which may result in a wide range of outcomes. For more information on our retirement and post-retirement benefit plans, see Note 4, “Retirement and Post-Retirement Benefit Plans,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II. 60 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Restructuring Plans As of October 31, 2024, we expect future cash payments of approximately $185 million in connection with our approved restructuring plans, which includes $80 million expected to be paid in fiscal 2025 and $105 million expected to be paid thereafter. Payments for restructuring activities are not considered as contractual obligations, because they do not represent contractual cash outflows and there is uncertainty as to the timing of these payments. For more information on our restructuring activities, see Note 3, “Transformation Programs,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II. Uncertain Tax Positions As of October 31, 2024, we had approximately $186 million of recorded liabilities and related interest and penalties pertaining to uncertain tax positions that could result in a cash payment. These liabilities and related interest and penalties include $2 million expected to be paid within one year. For the remaining amount, we are unable to make a reasonable estimate as to when cash settlement with the tax authorities might occur due to the uncertainties related to these tax matters. Payments of these obligations would result from settlements with taxing authorities. For more information on our uncertain tax positions, see Note 6, “Taxes on Earnings,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As part of our ongoing business, we have not participated in transactions that generate material relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. We have third-party revolving short-term financing arrangements intended to facilitate the working capital requirements of certain customers. For more information on our third-party revolving short-term financing arrangements, see Note 7, “Balance Sheet Details,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II. GAAP TO NON-GAAP RECONCILIATIONS The following tables provide a reconciliation of each non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure for the periods presented: Reconciliation of GAAP gross profit and gross profit margin to non-GAAP gross profit and gross profit margin. 61 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Reconciliation of GAAP earnings from operations and operating profit margin to non-GAAP earnings from operations and operating profit margin. Reconciliation of GAAP net earnings and diluted net earnings per share to non-GAAP net earnings and diluted net earnings per share. (1)    Other adjustments includes non-service net periodic benefit cost and tax indemnification and other adjustments. (2)    For purposes of calculating Non-GAAP diluted net EPS, the preferred stock dividends are added back to the Non-GAAP net earnings attributable to common stockholders and the diluted weighted average share calculation assumes the preferred stock was converted at issuance or as of the beginning of the reporting period. 62 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities to free cash flow. Use of non-GAAP Financial Measures The non-GAAP financial measures presented are net revenue on a constant currency basis (including at the business segment level), non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP gross profit margin, non-GAAP earnings from operations, non-GAAP operating profit margin (non-GAAP earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue), non-GAAP tax rate, non-GAAP net earnings, non-GAAP diluted net earnings per share, and FCF. These non-GAAP financial measures are not computed in accordance with, or as an alternative to, generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to net revenue on a constant currency basis is net revenue. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP gross profit is gross profit. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP gross profit margin is gross profit margin. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP earnings from operations is earnings from operations. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP operating profit margin (non-GAAP earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue) is operating profit margin (earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue). The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP income tax rate is income tax rate. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP net earnings is net earnings. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP diluted net earnings per share is diluted net earnings per share. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to FCF is cash flow from operations. We believe that providing the non-GAAP measures stated above, in addition to the related GAAP measures provides greater transparency to the information used in our financial and operational decision making and allows the reader of our Consolidated Financial Statements to see our financial results “through the eyes” of management. We further believe that providing this information provides investors with a supplemental view to understand our historical and prospective operating performance and to evaluate the efficacy of the methodology and information used by management to evaluate and measure such performance. Disclosure of these non-GAAP financial measures also facilitates comparisons of our operating performance with the performance of other companies in the same industry that supplement their GAAP results with non-GAAP financial measures that may be calculated in a similar manner. Economic Substance of non-GAAP Financial Measures Net revenue on a constant currency basis assumes no change to the foreign exchange rate utilized in the comparable prior-year period. This measure assists investors with evaluating our past and future performance, without the impact of foreign exchange rates, as more than half of our revenue is generated outside of the U.S. We believe that excluding the items mentioned below from the non-GAAP financial measures provides a supplemental view to management and our investors of our consolidated financial performance and presents the financial results of the business without costs that we do not believe to be reflective of our ongoing operating results. Exclusion of these items can have a material impact on the equivalent GAAP measure and cash flows thus limiting the use of such non-GAAP financial measures as analytic tools. See “Compensation for Limitations With Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures” section below for further information. Non-GAAP gross profit and non-GAAP gross profit margin are defined to exclude charges related to the amortization of initial direct costs, stock-based compensation expense, and disaster charges. See below for the reasons management excludes each item: • Stock-based compensation expense consists of equity awards granted based on the estimated fair value of those awards at grant date. Although stock-based compensation is a key incentive offered to our employees, we exclude these charges for the purpose of calculating these non-GAAP measures, primarily because they are non-cash expenses and our internal benchmarking analyses evidence that many industry participants and peers present non-GAAP financial measures excluding stock-based compensation expense. 63 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) • Disaster recoveries include direct costs or recovery of these costs related to the exit of the Company’s businesses in Russia and Belarus. Hewlett Packard Enterprise excludes disaster recoveries from these non-GAAP measures as the specific net recoveries are non-recurring charges and not indicative of the operational performance of our business. • Divestiture related exit costs include expenses associated with certain disposal activities. On May 23, 2024, HPE announced plans to divest the Company’s CTG business, which was completed on December 1, 2024. We consider this divestiture to be a discrete event. We exclude these costs as these expenses are non-recurring exit costs to eliminate stranded costs of this business. In addition, our internal benchmarking analyses evidence that many industry participants and peers present non-GAAP financial measures excluding these charges. Non-GAAP earnings from operations and non-GAAP operating profit margin consist of earnings from operations or earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue excluding the items mentioned above and charges relating to the amortization of intangible assets, transformation costs and acquisition, disposition and other related charges. In addition to the items previously explained above, management excludes these items for the following reasons: • We incur charges relating to the amortization of intangible assets and exclude these charges for purposes of calculating these non-GAAP measures. Such charges are significantly impacted by the timing and magnitude of our acquisitions. We exclude these charges for the purpose of calculating these non-GAAP measures, primarily because they are noncash expenses and our internal benchmarking analyses evidence that many industry participants and peers present non-GAAP financial measures excluding intangible asset amortization. Although this does not directly affect our cash position, the loss in value of intangible assets over time can have a material impact on the equivalent GAAP earnings measure. • Transformation costs represent net costs related to the (i) HPE Next Plan and (ii) Cost Optimization and Prioritization Plan and include restructuring charges, program design and execution costs, costs incurred to transform our IT infrastructure, net gains from the sale of real estate and any impairment charges on real estate identified as part of the initiatives. We exclude these costs as they are discrete costs related to two specific transformation programs that were announced in 2017 and 2020, respectively, as multi-year programs necessary to transform the business and IT infrastructure following material divestiture transactions in 2017 and in response to COVID-19 and an evolving product portfolio in fiscal 2020. The primary elements of the HPE Next and the Cost Optimization and Prioritization Plan have been substantially completed by October 31, 2023. The exclusion of the transformation program costs from our non-GAAP financial measures as stated above is to provide a supplemental measure of our operating results that does not include material HPE Next Plan and Cost Optimization and Prioritization Plan costs as we do not believe such costs to be reflective of our ongoing operating cost structure. Further as our transformation costs for these plans have materially fluctuated since 2017, have been materially declining since 2021 and we do not expect to incur material transformation costs related to these programs beyond fiscal 2024, we believe non-GAAP measures excluding these costs are useful to management and investors for comparing operating performance across multiple periods. • We incur costs related to our acquisition, disposition and other related charges. The charges are direct expenses, such as professional fees and retention costs, most of which are treated as non-cash or non-capitalized expenses. For fiscal 2024, these charges were driven by costs associated with the pending merger with Juniper Networks and the acquisition of Morpheus Data, in addition to prior acquisitions of Axis, Athonet and OpsRamp. For fiscal 2023, these charges were driven by acquisitions of Axis, Zerto, OpsRamp and Athonet. Charges may also include expenses associated with disposal activities including legal and arbitration settlements in connection with certain dispositions. We consider these acquisitions and divestitures to be discrete events. We exclude these costs as these expenses are inconsistent in amount and frequency and are significantly impacted by the timing and nature of our acquisitions and divestitures. In addition, our internal benchmarking analyses evidence that many industry participants and peers present non-GAAP financial measures excluding these charges. Non-GAAP net earnings and non-GAAP diluted net earnings per share consist of net earnings or diluted net earnings per share excluding those same charges mentioned above, as well as other items such as adjustments for equity interests, gain or loss on equity investments, other adjustments, and adjustments for taxes. The Adjustments for taxes line item includes certain income tax valuation allowances and separation taxes, the impact of tax reform, structural rate adjustment, excess tax benefit from stock-based compensation, and adjustments for additional taxes or tax benefits associated with each non-GAAP item. In addition to the items previously explained, management excludes these items for the following reasons: • During the six months ended April 30, 2024, we stopped reporting H3C earnings in our non-GAAP results due to the planned divestiture of the H3C investment. Per the terms of the original Put Share Purchase Agreement, we weren’t anticipating receiving dividends from this investment prospectively. However, on May 24, 2024, we entered into an 64 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Amended and Restated Put Share Purchase Agreement and an Agreement on Subsequent Arrangements, both with UNIS, as described in Note 19 “Equity Interests” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II, which, taken together, revise the arrangements governing the aforementioned sale as previously set forth in the original Put Share Purchase Agreement. On September 4, 2024, we divested 30% of the total issued share capital of H3C, which resulted in a gain of $733 million and is included in the fiscal 2024 adjustment Gain on sale of equity interest. We continue to possess the option to sell the remaining 19% of the total issued share capital of H3C at a later date. For the second half of fiscal 2024, the adjustment for equity interests incorporated the completed divestment of 30% of the total issued share capital of H3C. All periods presented include the amortization of the basis difference in our investment. For fiscal 2023, this adjustment also included our portion of intangible asset impairment charges from H3C. We believe that eliminating these amounts for purposes of calculating non-GAAP financial measures facilitates the evaluation of our current operating performance. • We exclude gains and losses (including impairments) on our non-marketable equity investments because we do not believe they are reflective of normal continuing business operations. These adjustments are reflected in Interest and other, net in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. We believe eliminating these adjustments for the purposes of calculating non-GAAP measures facilitates the evaluation of our current operating performance. • We utilize a structural long-term projected non-GAAP income tax rate in order to provide consistency across the interim reporting periods and to eliminate the effects of items not directly related to our operating structure that can vary in size, frequency and timing. When projecting this long-term rate, we evaluated a three-year financial projection. The projected rate assumes no incremental acquisitions in the three-year projection period and considers other factors including our expected tax structure, our tax positions in various jurisdictions and current impacts from key legislation implemented in major jurisdictions where we operate. For fiscal 2024, we used a projected non-GAAP income tax rate of 15%, which reflects currently available information as well as other factors and assumptions. For fiscal 2023 we used a non-GAAP income tax rate of 14%. The non-GAAP income tax rate could be subject to change for a variety of reasons, including the rapidly evolving global tax environment, significant changes in our geographic earnings mix including due to acquisition activity, or other changes to our strategy or business operations. We will re-evaluate its long-term rate as appropriate. We believe that making these adjustments for purposes of calculating non-GAAP measures, facilitates a supplemental evaluation of our current operating performance and comparisons to past operating results. FCF is defined as cash flow from operations, less net capital expenditures (investments in PP&E and software assets less proceeds from the sale of PP&E), and adjusted for the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash. FCF does not represent the total increase or decrease in cash for the period. Our management and investors can use FCF for the purpose of determining the amount of cash available for investment in our businesses, repurchasing stock and other purposes as well as evaluating our historical and prospective liquidity. Compensation for Limitations With Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures These non-GAAP financial measures have limitations as analytical tools, and these measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. Some of the limitations in relying on these non- GAAP financial measures are that they can have a material impact on the equivalent GAAP earnings measures and cash flows, they may be calculated differently by other companies (limiting the usefulness of those measures for comparative purposes) and may not reflect the full economic effect of the loss in value of certain assets. We compensate for these limitations on the use of non-GAAP financial measures by relying primarily on our GAAP results and using non-GAAP financial measures only as a supplement. We also provide a reconciliation of each non-GAAP financial measure to its most directly comparable GAAP financial measure for this fiscal year and prior periods, and we encourage investors to review those reconciliations carefully. 65