********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

You should carefully consider the following risks and other information in this Form 10-K in evaluating Hewlett Packard Enterprise and its common stock. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. The following risk factors should be read in conjunction with Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation" and the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" of this Form 10-K. Business and Operational Risks We are unable to predict the extent to which the ongoing global COVID-19 pandemic, or other outbreaks, epidemics, pandemics, or public health crises may adversely impact our business operations, financial performance and results of operations. For the past two years, the COVID-19 pandemic and efforts to control its spread have significantly curtailed the movement of people, goods and services worldwide, including in most or all of the regions in which we sell our products and services and conduct our business operations. The pandemic has resulted in, and may continue to or at a later time result in, a global slowdown of economic activity, including travel restrictions, prohibitions of non-essential activities in some cases, disruption and shutdown of businesses and greater uncertainty in global financial markets. Our operations have been affected by a range of external factors related to the COVID-19 pandemic that are not within our control, including the various restrictions imposed by cities, counties, states and countries on our employees, customers, partners and suppliers designed to limit the spread of COVID-19. Although the immediate impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic have been assessed and mitigated, the ultimate extent of the impact of the pandemic, including as a result of possible subsequent outbreaks of COVID-19 or of new variants thereof and measures taken in response thereto, will depend on future developments, which remain highly uncertain and cannot currently be predicted. Based on employee vaccination rates and public health guidance, we have begun a return to most HPE offices on a hybrid basis for most employees, adhering to any government requirements in effect locally. We continue to monitor the situation, including cases within our workforce, and will take action to adjust office attendance policies as circumstances warrant in order to protect the health and safety of employees, contractors, and others who visit our sites. Vaccination requirements or other risk mitigation strategies for site entry and other activities remain in effect in many countries where it is legally permissible to implement such a requirement(s), though discretion to implement such policies has been returned to local executive leadership. The pandemic and its uneven recovery have adversely affected, continue to adversely affect, and we expect may continue to adversely affect, our business, in a variety of ways, including by restricting our operations and sales, marketing and distribution efforts; and disrupting the supply chains of hardware products. In addition, as the COVID-19 pandemic has disrupted the operations of our customers, partners, and suppliers, there have been, and there may continue to be, delays of hardware product shipments from our vendors and out of our manufacturing and logistics operations worldwide as a result of capacity issues. While capacity shortages are beginning to show signs of recovery, they may nevertheless persist, adversely disrupting our business. Additionally, concerns over the economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic have caused extreme volatility in financial and other capital markets, which has adversely impacted, and may continue to adversely impact, our stock price, our ability to access capital markets, and our ability to fund liquidity needs. Outbreaks, epidemics, pandemics, or public health crises may in the future adversely affect, among other things, demand for our products and services; our operations and sales, marketing, and distribution efforts; the supply chains of hardware products and components; our research and development capabilities; our engineering, design, and manufacturing processes; and other important business activities. Outbreaks, epidemics, pandemics, or public health crises may also result in our restriction or suspension of international and/or domestic travel, prohibitions of non-essential activities in some cases, and limit our in-person activities within HPE and with customers. Such outbreaks, epidemics, pandemics, or public health crises may also present operational challenges, such as unanticipated disruptions in services provided through our localized physical infrastructure, which can in turn curtail the functioning of critical components of our IT systems, and adversely affect our ability to fulfill orders, provide services, respond to customer requests and maintain our worldwide business operations. The negative impacts of the global COVID-19 pandemic or other outbreaks, epidemics, pandemics, or public health crises on the broader global economy and related impacts on our or our customers’ business operations and demand for our products and services will depend on future developments and actions taken in response to such events, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted. Additional impacts and risks that we are not currently aware of may arise. We are similarly unable to predict the full extent of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic or other outbreaks, epidemics, pandemics, or public health crises on our customers, partners, and suppliers. To the extent the COVID-19 pandemic or other outbreaks, epidemics, pandemics, or public health crises adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and stock price, they may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks described in this Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K. 16 Business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. Our worldwide operations and supply chain could be disrupted by natural or human-induced disasters including, but not limited to, earthquakes; tsunamis; floods; hurricanes, cyclones or typhoons; fires; other extreme weather conditions; power or water shortages; telecommunications failures; materials scarcity and price volatility; terrorist acts, civil unrest, conflicts or wars; and medical epidemics or pandemics. The impacts and frequency of any of the above could furthermore be exacerbated by climate change, particularly in countries where we operate that have limited infrastructure and disaster recovery resources. We are predominantly self-insured to mitigate the impact of most catastrophic events. Although it is impossible to completely predict the occurrences or consequences of any such events, forecasting disruptive events and building additional resiliency into our operations accordingly will become an increasing business imperative. The occurrence of business disruptions could result in significant losses, seriously harm our revenue, profitability and financial condition, adversely affect our competitive position, increase our costs and expenses, decrease in demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible to provide services or deliver products to our customers or to receive components from our suppliers, create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain, result in the need to impose employee travel restrictions and require substantial expenditures and recovery time in order to fully resume operations. Climate change serves as a risk multiplier increasing both the frequency and severity of natural disasters that may affect our worldwide business operations. Our corporate headquarters is located in Spring, Texas, which suffers from floods, hurricanes, and other extreme weather, and a portion of our research and development activities are located in California, which suffers from drought conditions and catastrophic wildfires, each affecting the health and safety of our employees. In California, to mitigate wildfire risk, electric utilities have been periodically deploying public safety power shutoffs, which affects electricity reliability to our facilities and our communities. In 2017, our principal worldwide IT data centers in Houston were flooded due to Hurricane Harvey. Since then, HPE has increased its resiliency through site selection and infrastructure technological investments to mitigate and adapt to physical risks from climate change. While we seek to mitigate our business risks associated with climate change through such efforts, we may be unsuccessful in doing so as there are inherent climate-related risks wherever business is conducted. Furthermore, climate change may reduce the availability or increase the cost of insurance for these negative impacts of natural disasters by contributing to an increase in the incidence and severity of such natural disasters. The manufacture of product components, the final assembly of our products and other critical operations are concentrated in certain geographic locations, including the United States, Puerto Rico, Czech Republic, Mexico, China, Malaysia, Taiwan, and Singapore. We also rely on major logistics hubs, which are strategically located near manufacturing facilities in the major regions and in proximity to HPE's distribution channels and customers. Our operations could be adversely affected if manufacturing, logistics or other operations in these locations are disrupted for any reason, including natural disasters, IT system failures, military actions or economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, regulatory, or political issues. Other critical business operations and some of our suppliers are located in California and Asia, near major earthquake faults known for seismic activity. The ultimate impact on us, our significant suppliers and our general infrastructure of being located near vulnerable locations is continuing to be assessed. Our transition to a software consumption-based business model may adversely affect our business, operating results and free cash flow. We are currently transitioning to an as-a-service company, providing our entire portfolio through a range of software consumption-based, pay-per-use and as-a-service offerings. We will also continue to provide our hardware and software in a capital expenditure and license-based model, ultimately giving our customers choices in consuming HPE products and services in a traditional or as-a-service offering. Such business model changes entail significant risks and uncertainties, and we may be unable to complete the transition to a software consumption-based business model or manage the transition successfully and in a timely manner, and our ability to accurately forecast our future operating results may be adversely affected.  Additionally, we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of the software consumption transition, even if we successfully complete the transition. The transition to a software consumption-based business model also means that our historical results, especially those achieved before we began the transition, may not be indicative of our future results. Further, as customer demand for our software consumption-based business model offerings increases, we will experience differences in the timing of revenue recognition between our traditional offerings (for which revenue is generally recognized at the time of delivery) and our as-a-service offerings (for which revenue is generally recognized ratably over the term of the arrangement). In addition, the transition to an as-a-service company is expected to require incremental capital requirements, resulting in a negative impact to cash flows in the near term, and may require us to dedicate additional resources, including sales and marketing costs. Furthermore, we anticipate needing to continually adapt our go-to-market structure, to better align with the software consumption-based business model. We must adapt our sales processes for new sales and marketing approaches, including those required by our shift to software consumption-based services and other changes resulting from the pandemic. Changing our go-to-market structure may affect employee compensation models and ultimately our ability to retain employees. 17 There is no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement these adjustments in a timely or cost-effective manner, or that we will be able to realize all or any of the expected benefits from such adjustments. Further, our software consumption offerings could subject us to increased risk of liability related to the provision of services as well as operational, technical, legal or other costs. We depend on third-party suppliers, and our financial results could suffer if we fail to manage our supplier relationships properly. Our operations depend on our ability to anticipate our needs for components, products and services, as well as our suppliers' abilities to deliver sufficient quantities of quality components, products and services at reasonable prices and in time for us to meet critical schedules for the delivery of our own products and services. Given the wide variety of solutions that we offer, the large and diverse distribution of our suppliers and contract manufacturers, and the long lead times required to manufacture, assemble and deliver certain solutions, problems could arise in production, planning and inventory management that could seriously harm our business. In addition, our ongoing efforts to optimize the efficiency of our supply chain could cause supply disruptions and be more expensive, time-consuming and resource-intensive than expected. Furthermore, certain of our suppliers may decide to discontinue conducting business with us. Other supplier problems that we could face include component shortages, excess supply, and contractual, relational and labor risks, each of which is described below. • Component shortages. We have been and are currently experiencing delays and shortages of certain components as a result of strong demand and capacity constraints due to economic changes resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, disruptions in the operations of component suppliers, and other problems experienced by suppliers or problems faced during the transition to new suppliers. As shortages or delays persist, the price of certain components has increased, and we may be exposed to quality issues and delivery delays. We may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build products or provide services in a timely manner in the quantities needed or according to our specifications. Accordingly, our business and financial performance could suffer if we lose time-sensitive sales, incur additional freight costs or are unable to pass on price increases to our customers. If we cannot adequately address supply issues, we might have to reengineer some product or service offerings, which could result in further costs and delays. • Excess supply. In order to secure components for our products or services, at times we may make advance payments to suppliers or enter into long term agreements, non-cancelable commitments, or other inventory management arrangements with vendors. In addition, we may purchase components strategically in advance of demand to take advantage of favorable pricing or to address concerns about the availability of future components. If we fail to anticipate customer demand properly, a temporary oversupply could result in excess or obsolete components, which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. • Contractual terms. As a result of binding long-term price or purchase commitments with vendors, we may be obligated to purchase components or services at prices that are higher than those available in the current market and be limited in our ability to respond to changing market conditions. If we commit to purchasing components or services for prices in excess of the then-current market price, we may be at a disadvantage to competitors who have access to components or services at lower prices, our gross margin could suffer, and we could incur additional charges relating to inventory obsolescence. Any of these developments could adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. • Contingent workers. We also rely on third-party suppliers for the provision of contingent workers, and our failure to manage our use of such workers effectively could adversely affect our results of operations. We have been exposed to various legal claims relating to the status of contingent workers in the past and could face similar claims in the future. We may be subject to shortages, oversupply or fixed contractual terms relating to contingent workers. Our ability to manage the size of, and costs associated with, the contingent workforce may be subject to additional constraints imposed by local laws. • Single-source suppliers. We obtain certain components from single-source suppliers due to technology, availability, price, quality, scale or customization needs. Replacing a single-source supplier could delay production of some products as replacement suppliers may initially be unable to meet demand or be subject to other output limitations. For some components, such as customized components, alternative sources either may not exist or may be unable to produce the quantities of those components necessary to satisfy our production requirements. In addition, we sometimes purchase components from single-source suppliers under short-term agreements that contain favorable pricing and other terms but that may be unilaterally modified or terminated by the supplier with limited notice and with little or no penalty. The performance of such single-source suppliers under those agreements (and the renewal or extension of those agreements upon similar terms) may affect the quality, quantity, and price of our components. The loss of a single-source supplier, the deterioration of our relationship with a single-source supplier, or any unilateral modification to the contractual terms under which we are supplied components by a single-source supplier could adversely affect our business and financial performance. 18 While our restructuring plans are substantially complete, their implementation periods are ongoing, and it is possible that we may not achieve all of the expected benefits of such restructuring plans. We have announced and have been implementing, restructuring plans, including the HPE Next initiative (whereby we are simplifying our operating model and streamlining our offerings, business processes and business systems) and the cost optimization and prioritization plan, in order to realign our cost structure due to the changing nature of our business and to achieve operating efficiencies that we expect to reduce costs, as well as simplify our organizational structure, upgrade our IT infrastructure and redesign business processes. While our restructuring plans are substantially complete, their implementation periods are ongoing, and it is possible that we may not be able to maintain all the cost savings and benefits that were attained in connection with our restructurings. Additionally, as a result of restructuring initiatives, we may experience a loss of continuity, loss of accumulated knowledge and/or inefficiency during transitional periods. Reorganization and restructuring can require a significant amount of management and other employees' time and focus, which may divert attention from operating and growing our business. If we fail to sustain all of the expected benefits of restructuring, it could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. For more information about our restructuring plans, the HPE Next initiative and the cost optimization and prioritization plan, see Note 3, "Transformation Programs", to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II. Any failure by us to identify, manage and complete acquisitions and subsequent integrations, divestitures and other significant transactions successfully could harm our financial results, business and prospects. As part of our strategy, we may acquire businesses, divest businesses or assets, enter into strategic alliances and joint ventures, and make investments to further our business (collectively, "business combination and investment transactions"), and also handle any post-closing issues, such as integration. For example, in September 2020, we acquired Silver Peak Systems, Inc., an SD-WAN industry leader and in September 2019, we acquired Cray Inc., a global supercomputer leader. In April 2017 and September 2017, we spun off our Enterprise Services and Software businesses, respectively. See also the risk factors below under the heading "Risks Related to Prior Separations." Risks associated with business combination and investment transactions include the following, any of which could adversely affect our financial results, including our effective tax rate: • We may not successfully combine product or service offerings or fully realize all of the anticipated benefits of any particular business combination and investment transaction, which may result in (1) failure to retain employees, customers, distributors, and suppliers; (2) increase in unanticipated delays or failure to meet contractual obligations which may cause financial results to differ from expectations; and (3) significant increase in costs and expenses, including those related to severance pay, early retirement costs, employee benefit costs, charges from the elimination of duplicative facilities and contracts, inventory adjustments, assumed litigation and other liabilities, legal, accounting and financial advisory fees, and required payments to executive officers and key employees under retention plans. • Our ability to conduct due diligence with respect to business combination and investment transactions, and our ability to evaluate the results of such due diligence, is dependent upon the veracity and completeness of statements and disclosures made or actions taken by third parties or their representatives. We may fail to identify significant issues with the acquired company's product quality, financial disclosures, accounting practices or internal control deficiencies or all of the factors necessary to estimate reasonably accurate costs, timing and other matters. • In order to complete a business combination and investment transaction, we may issue common stock, potentially creating dilution for our existing stockholders or we may enter into financing arrangements, which could affect our liquidity and financial condition. • For an acquisition or other combination, the acquisition partner may have differing or inadequate cybersecurity and data protection controls, which could impact our exposure to data security incidents and potentially increase anticipated costs or time to integrate the business. • Business combination and investment transactions may lead to litigation, which could impact our financial condition and results of operations. • We have incurred and will incur additional depreciation and amortization expense over the useful lives of certain assets acquired in connection with business combination and investment transactions and, to the extent that the value of goodwill or intangible assets acquired in connection with a business combination and investment transaction becomes impaired, we may be required to incur additional material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. • For a divestiture, we may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely manner, or we may dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less desirable than we had anticipated. • The impact of divestitures on our revenue growth may be larger than projected, as we may experience greater dis-synergies than expected. If we do not satisfy pre-closing conditions and necessary regulatory and governmental 19 approvals on acceptable terms, it may prevent us from completing the transaction. Dispositions may also involve continued financial involvement in the divested business, such as through continuing equity ownership, guarantees, indemnities or other financial obligations. Under these arrangements, performance by the divested businesses or other conditions outside of our control could affect our future financial results. • Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it difficult or discourage an acquisition of Hewlett Packard Enterprise if our Board of Directors deems it to be undesirable. Provisions such as indemnification, meeting requirements, and blank check stock authorizations could deter or delay hostile takeovers, proxy contests, or changes in control or management of Hewlett Packard Enterprise. Management's attention or other resources may be diverted during business combination and investment transactions and further impacted if we fail to successfully complete or integrate business combination and investment transactions that further our strategic objectives. System security risks, data protection incidents, cyberattacks and systems integration issues could disrupt our internal operations or IT services provided to customers, and any such disruption could reduce our revenue, increase our expenses, damage our reputation and adversely affect our stock price. As a leading technology firm, we are exposed to attacks from criminals, nation state actors and activist hackers (collectively, "malicious parties") who have been able to circumvent or bypass our cyber security measures. Although some of these attacks have caused disruptions or exposure of information, so far, these attacks have not resulted in material losses to HPE, nor have any of HPE's consumers, customers, or employees informed HPE that these attacks resulted in material harm to them. It is possible that future attacks may result in material misappropriation, system disruptions or shutdowns, malicious alteration, or destruction of our confidential or personal information or that of third parties. Malicious parties also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, ransomware, and other malicious software programs that attack our products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products, including within our cloud-based environments and offerings. Malicious parties may compromise our manufacturing supply chain and the systems or networks of other third parties on whom we rely, and as such, may embed malicious software or hardware in our products for use in compromising our customers. Geopolitical tensions or conflicts, such as the ongoing conflict between Russia and Ukraine, may create a heightened risk of such cyberattacks or exacerbate system vulnerabilities, especially in light of our hybrid work environment. In addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including flaws that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the system. The costs to us to eliminate or alleviate cyber or other security problems, including bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs, and other security vulnerabilities, could be significant, and our efforts to address these problems may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, cessation of service, and loss of existing or potential customers that may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions. We manage and store various proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data relating to our business. In addition, our business may process, store and transmit customer data, including commercially sensitive and personal data, subject to the European General Data Protection Regulation, the California Consumer Privacy Act, the California Privacy Rights Act, and other privacy laws. With our business increasingly providing as-a-service offerings, malicious parties could target such services, potentially resulting in an increased risk of compromise of customer data and regulatory exposure. Incidents involving our cyber or physical security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure, or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information, sensitive, confidential, or personal data about us, our clients, or our customers, including the potential loss or disclosure of such information or data as a result of fraud, trickery, or other forms of deception, could expose us, our customers or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in regulatory fines, litigation, and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation, or otherwise harm our business. We also could lose existing or potential customers of services or other IT solutions or incur significant expenses in connection with our customers' system failures or any actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products and services. In addition, the cost and operational consequences of managing an incident and implementing further data protection measures could be significant. Portions of our IT infrastructure also have experienced, and may experience, interruptions, delays or cessations of service or produce errors in connection with systems integration or migration work that takes place from time to time. We may not be successful in implementing new systems and transitioning data, which could cause business disruptions and be more expensive, time-consuming, disruptive and resource intensive. Furthermore, our data centers depend on predictable and reliable energy and networking capabilities, the cost or availability of which could be adversely affected or disrupted by a variety of factors, including but not limited to the effects of climate change. Such disruptions could adversely impact our ability to fulfill orders and respond to customer requests and interrupt other processes. Delayed sales, lower margins, or lost customers resulting from these disruptions could reduce our revenue, increase our expenses, damage our reputation, and adversely affect our stock price. 20 If we cannot successfully execute our go-to-market strategy and continue to develop, manufacture and market innovative products, services, and solutions, our business and financial performance may suffer. Our long-term strategy is focused on leveraging our portfolio of hardware, software and services as we deliver global edge-to-cloud platform as-a-service to help customers accelerate outcomes by unlocking value from all of their data, everywhere. HPE delivers unique, open and intelligent technology solutions, including those utilizing machine learning and artificial intelligence capabilities, with a consistent experience across all clouds and edge computing platforms. To successfully execute this strategy, we must address business model shifts and optimize go-to-market execution by improving cost structure, aligning sales coverage with strategic goals, improving channel execution and strengthening our capabilities in our areas of strategic focus, while continuing to pursue new product innovation that builds on our strategic capabilities in areas such as cloud and data center computing, software-defined networking, converged storage, high-performance compute, and wireless networking. Any failure to successfully execute this strategy, including any failure to invest sufficiently in strategic growth areas, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The process of developing and improving an edge-to-cloud platform as-a-service solution and enhancing existing hardware and software products, services, and solutions is complex, costly and uncertain, and any failure by us to anticipate customers' changing needs and emerging technological trends accurately could significantly harm our market share, results of operations and financial condition. For example, as the transition to an environment characterized by cloud-based computing and software being delivered as-a-service progresses, we must continue to successfully develop and deploy cloud-based solutions for our customers. We must make long-term investments, develop or obtain and protect appropriate intellectual property, and commit significant research and development and other resources before knowing whether our predictions will accurately reflect customer demand for our products, services, and solutions. Should such efforts fail to produce actionable insights or our products not perform as promised, our business results may be adversely affected. Any failure to accurately predict technological and business trends, control research and development costs or execute our innovation strategy could harm our business and financial performance. Our research and development initiatives may not be successful in whole or in part, including research and development projects which we have prioritized with respect to funding and/or personnel. Having developed an edge-to-cloud platform product in HPE GreenLake, we must be able to continue to scale quickly while also managing costs and preserving margins. To accomplish this, we must accurately forecast volumes, mixes of products and configurations that meet customer requirements, and we may not succeed at doing so within a given product's life cycle or at all. Our HPE GreenLake edge-to-cloud platform faces competition from peer companies with their own cloud platform offerings, and to succeed, we will need to compete effectively across numerous factors. Any delay in the development, production or marketing of a new product, service or solution, including new features of the HPE GreenLake edge-to-cloud platform, could result in our offerings being late to reach the market, which could further harm our competitive position. If we cannot continue to produce quality products and services, our reputation, business and financial performance may suffer . In the course of conducting our business, we must adequately address quality issues associated with our products, services, and solutions, including defects in our engineering, design, and manufacturing processes and unsatisfactory performance under service contracts, as well as defects in third-party components included in our products and unsatisfactory performance or even malicious acts by third-party contractors or subcontractors or their employees. In order to address quality issues, we work extensively with our customers and suppliers and engage in product testing to determine the causes of problems and to develop and implement appropriate solutions. However, the products, services, and solutions that we offer are complex, and our regular testing and quality control efforts may not be effective in controlling or detecting all quality issues or errors, particularly with respect to faulty components manufactured by third parties. If we are unable to determine the cause, find an appropriate solution or offer a temporary fix (or "patch") to address quality issues with our products, we may delay shipment to customers, which could delay revenue recognition and receipt of customer payments and could adversely affect our revenue, cash flows, and profitability. In addition, after products are delivered, quality issues may require us to repair or replace such products. Addressing quality issues can be expensive and may result in additional warranty, repair, replacement and other costs, adversely affecting our financial performance. If new or existing customers have difficulty operating our products or are dissatisfied with our services or solutions, our results of operations could be adversely affected, and we could face possible claims if we fail to meet our customers' expectations. In addition, quality issues can impair our relationships with new or existing customers and adversely affect our brand and reputation, which could, in turn, adversely affect our results of operations. Issues in the development and use of artificial intelligence may result in reputational harm or liability. We currently incorporate AI capabilities into certain of our offerings, and our research into and continued development of such capabilities remain ongoing. As with many innovations, AI presents risks, challenges, and unintended consequences that could affect its adoption, and therefore our business. AI algorithms may be flawed. Datasets may be insufficient or contain 21 biased information. Ineffective or inadequate AI development or deployment practices by us or others could result in incidents that impair the acceptance of AI solutions or cause harm to individuals or society. These deficiencies and other failures of AI systems could subject us to competitive harm, regulatory action, legal liability, and brand or reputational harm. Some AI scenarios present ethical issues, and while we aim to use AI ethically and attempt to predict and anticipate ethical issues presented by its use, we may be unsuccessful in identifying or resolving issues before they arise. If we enable or offer AI solutions that are controversial because of their impact on human rights, privacy, employment, or other social, economic, or political issues, we may experience brand or reputational harm. If we fail to manage the distribution of our products and services properly, our business and financial performance could suffer. We use a variety of distribution methods to sell our products and services around the world, including both direct and indirect (distributors and resellers) sales to enterprise accounts and consumers. Successfully managing the interaction of our direct and indirect channel efforts to reach various potential customer segments for our products and services is a complex process. Moreover, since each distribution method has distinct risks and gross margins, our failure to implement the most advantageous balance in the delivery model for our products and services could adversely affect our revenue and gross margins and therefore our profitability. Our financial results could be materially adversely affected due to distribution channel conflicts or if the financial conditions of our channel partners were to weaken. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by any conflicts that might arise between our various distribution channels or the loss or deterioration of any alliance or distribution arrangement. Moreover, some of our wholesale distributors may have insufficient financial resources and may not be able to withstand changes in business conditions, including economic weakness, industry consolidation, and market trends. Many of our significant distributors operate on narrow margins and have been negatively affected by business pressures in the past. Considerable trade receivables that are not covered by collateral or credit insurance are outstanding with our distribution channel partners. Revenue from indirect sales could suffer, and we could experience disruptions in distribution, if our distributors' financial conditions, abilities to borrow funds in the credit markets or operations weaken. Our inventory management is complex, as we continue to sell a significant mix of products through distributors. We must manage both owned and channel inventory effectively, particularly with respect to sales to distributors, which involves forecasting demand and pricing challenges. Distributors may increase orders during periods of product shortages, cancel orders if their inventory is too high or delay orders in anticipation of new products. Distributors also may adjust their orders in response to the supply of our products and the products of our competitors and seasonal fluctuations in end-user demand. Our reliance upon indirect distribution methods may reduce our visibility into demand and pricing trends and issues, and therefore make forecasting more difficult. If we have excess or obsolete inventory, we may have to reduce our prices and write down inventory. Moreover, our use of indirect distribution channels may limit our willingness or ability to adjust prices quickly and otherwise to respond to pricing changes by competitors. We also may have limited ability to estimate future product rebate redemptions in order to price our products effectively. In order to be successful, we must attract, retain, train, motivate, develop, and transition key employees, and failure to do so could seriously harm us. In order to be successful, we must attract, retain, train, motivate, develop, and transition qualified executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical, development, sales, marketing, and IT support positions. In order to attract and retain executives and other key employees in a competitive marketplace, we must provide a competitive compensation package, including cash- and equity-based compensation. Certain equity-based incentive awards for certain executives contain conditions relating to our stock price performance and our long-term financial performance that make the future value of those awards uncertain. If the anticipated value of such equity-based incentive awards does not materialize, if our equity-based compensation otherwise ceases to be viewed as a valuable benefit, if our total compensation package is not viewed as being competitive, or if we do not obtain the stockholder approval needed to continue granting equity-based incentive awards in the amounts we believe are necessary, our ability to attract, retain, and motivate executives and key employees could be weakened. Our failure to successfully hire executives and key employees or the loss of any executives and key employees could have a significant impact on our operations. Further, changes in our management team may be disruptive to our business, and any failure to successfully transition and assimilate key new hires or promoted employees could adversely affect our business and results of operations. As competition for highly skilled employees in our industry has grown increasingly intense, we have experienced, and may continue to experience, higher than anticipated levels of employee attrition. These risks to attracting and retaining the necessary talent may be exacerbated by recent labor constraints and inflationary pressures on employee wages and benefits. 22 Failure to meet ESG expectations or standards or achieve our ESG goals could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, or stock price. There has been an increased focus from regulators and stakeholders on ESG matters, including greenhouse gas emissions and climate-related risks; diversity, equity, and inclusion; responsible sourcing and supply chain; human rights and social responsibility; and corporate governance and oversight. Given our commitment to ESG, we actively manage these issues and have established and publicly announced certain goals, commitments, and targets which we may refine or even expand further in the future. These goals, commitments, and targets reflect our current plans and aspirations and are not guarantees that we will be able to achieve them. Evolving stakeholder expectations and our efforts and ability to manage these issues, provide updates on them, and accomplish our goals, commitments, and targets present numerous operational, regulatory, reputational, financial, legal, and other risks, any of which may be outside of our control or could have a material adverse impact on our business, including on our reputation and stock price. Further, there is uncertainty around the accounting standards and climate-related disclosures associated with emerging laws and reporting requirements and the related costs to comply with the emerging regulations. Our failure or perceived failure to achieve our ESG goals, maintain ESG practices, or comply with emerging ESG regulations that meet evolving regulatory or stakeholder expectations could harm our reputation, adversely impact our ability to attract and retain customers and talent, and expose us to increased scrutiny from the investment community and enforcement authorities. Our reputation also may be harmed by the perceptions that our stakeholders have about our action or inaction on ESG-related issues. Damage to our reputation and loss of brand equity may reduce demand for our products and services and thus have an adverse effect on our future financial results, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation and could also reduce our stock price. Industry Risks We operate in an intensely competitive industry, and competitive pressures could harm our business and financial performance. We encounter aggressive competition from numerous and varied competitors in all areas of our business, and our competitors have targeted and are expected to continue targeting our key market segments. We compete primarily on the basis of our technology, innovation, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, reputation, distribution, product range and ease of use, account relationships, customer training, service and support, and security of our offerings. If our products, services, support, and cost structure do not enable us to compete successfully based on any of those criteria, our results of operations and business prospects could be harmed. We have a large portfolio of products and services and must allocate our financial, personnel and other resources across all of our products and services while competing with companies that have smaller portfolios or specialize in one or more of our product or service lines. As a result, we may invest less in certain areas of our business than our competitors do, and our competitors may have greater financial, technical, and marketing resources available to them compared to the resources allocated to our products and services that compete against their products and services. Industry consolidation may also affect competition by creating larger, more homogeneous and potentially stronger competitors in the markets in which we operate. Additionally, our competitors may affect our business by entering into exclusive arrangements with our existing or potential customers or suppliers. Companies with whom we have vertical relationships in certain areas may be or become our competitors in other areas. In addition, companies with whom we have vertical relationships also may acquire or form relationships with our competitors, which could reduce their business with us. If we are unable to effectively manage these complicated relationships with vertical partners, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. We face aggressive price competition and may continue to do so. As a consequence of inflation and higher supply chain and manufacturing costs, we have been increasing the prices of many of our products and services to maintain or improve our revenue and gross margin. In addition, competitors who have a greater presence in some of the lower-cost markets in which we compete, or who can obtain better pricing, more favorable contractual terms and conditions, or more favorable allocations of products and components during periods of limited supply may be able to offer lower prices than we are able to offer. Our cash flows, results of operations, and financial condition may be adversely affected by these and other industry-wide pricing pressures. Because our business model is based on providing innovative and high-quality products and services, we may spend a proportionately greater amount of our revenues on research and development than some of our competitors. If we cannot proportionately decrease our cost structure (apart from research and development expenses) on a timely basis in response to competitive price pressures, our gross margin and, therefore, our profitability could be adversely affected. In addition, if our pricing and other facets of our offerings are not sufficiently competitive, or if there is an adverse reaction to our product 23 decisions, we may lose market share in certain areas, which could adversely affect our financial performance and business prospects. Even if we are able to maintain or increase market share for a particular product, its financial performance could decline because the product is in a maturing industry or market segment or contains technology that is becoming obsolete. For example, our Storage business unit is experiencing the effects of a market transition towards software defined and public cloud, which has led to a decline in demand for our traditional storage products. Financial performance could decline due to increased competition from other types of products. International Risks Due to the international nature of our business, political or economic changes and the laws and regulatory regimes applying to international transactions or other factors could harm our future revenue, costs and expenses, and financial condition. Our business and financial performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions and the demand for technology hardware, software and services in the markets in which we compete. Economic weakness and uncertainty may adversely affect demand for our products, services, and solutions, may result in increased expenses due to higher allowances for doubtful accounts and potential goodwill and asset impairment charges, and may make it more difficult for us to manage inventory and make accurate forecasts of revenue, gross margin, cash flows, and expenses. Economic weakness and uncertainty could cause our expenses to vary materially from our expectations. Any financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets or any significant financial services institution failures could negatively impact our treasury operations, as the financial condition of such parties may deteriorate rapidly and without notice in times of market volatility and disruption. Poor financial performance of asset markets combined with lower interest rates and the adverse effects of fluctuating currency exchange rates could lead to higher pension and post-retirement benefit expenses. Interest and other expenses could vary materially from expectations depending on changes in interest rates, borrowing costs, currency exchange rates, and costs of hedging activities and the fair value of derivative instruments. For example, in response to increasing inflation, the U.S. Federal Reserve, along with central banks around the world, have been raising interest rates and signaled expectations of additional rate increases. It is difficult to predict the impact of such events on us, our third-party partners or customers or economic markets more broadly, which have been and will continue to be highly dependent upon the actions of governments and businesses in response to macroeconomic events, and the effectiveness of those actions. Such actions may impact our ability, desire, or the timing of seeking funding for various investment opportunities. Economic downturns also may lead to restructuring actions and associated expenses. Further, ongoing U.S. federal government spending priorities may limit demand for our products, services, and solutions from organizations that receive funding from the U.S. government, and could negatively affect macroeconomic conditions in the United States, which could further reduce demand for our products, services, and solutions. Our business and financial performance also could be adversely affected by changes in U.S. trade policy, U.S. export controls and sanctions, and U.S. regulations concerning imports, as well as international laws and regulations relating to global trade. Current U.S. government trade policy includes the imposition of tariffs on certain foreign goods, including information and communication technology products. These measures have materially increased costs for certain goods imported into the United States. This in turn could require us to materially increase prices to our customers which may reduce demand, or, if we are unable to increase prices, result in lowering our margin on products sold. U.S. government trade policy has resulted in, and could result in more, U.S. trading partners adopting responsive trade policy making it more difficult or costly for us to export our products to those countries. Similarly, changes in regulations relating to exports could prevent us from exporting products to certain locations or customers entirely. In addition, changes in requirements relating to making foreign direct investments could increase our cost of doing business in certain jurisdictions, prevent us from shipping products to particular countries or markets, affect our ability to obtain favorable terms for components, increase our operating costs or lead to penalties or restrictions. Sales outside the United States constituted approximately 67% of our net revenue in fiscal 2022. Our future business and financial performance could suffer due to a variety of international factors, including: • ongoing instability or changes in a country's or region's economic or political conditions, including inflation, recession, interest rate fluctuations, and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts, including uncertainties and instability in economic and market conditions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, the ongoing conflict between Russia and Ukraine, and the relationship between China and the U.S.; • inflationary pressures, such as those the market is currently experiencing, which may increase costs for materials, supplies, and services; • adverse or uncertain macroeconomic conditions, including fears of a global economic downturn or recession; 24 • network security, privacy, and data sovereignty concerns, which could make foreign customers reluctant to purchase products and services from U.S.-based technology companies; • longer collection cycles and financial instability among customers; • local labor conditions and regulations, including local labor issues faced by specific suppliers and OEMs, or changes to immigration and labor law policies which may adversely impact our access to technical and professional talent; • managing our geographically dispersed workforce; • differing technology standards or customer requirements; • local content and manufacturing requirements, which could impact our ability to sell into those markets; • difficulties associated with repatriating earnings in restricted countries, and changes in tax laws; and • fluctuations in freight costs, limitations on shipping and receiving capacity, and other disruptions in the transportation and shipping infrastructure at important geographic points of exit and entry for our products and shipments. The factors described above also could disrupt our product and component manufacturing and key suppliers located outside of the United States. For example, we rely on suppliers in Asia for product assembly and manufacture. The ongoing conflict between Russia and Ukraine has impacted business and financial performance in that region. HPE is proceeding with an exit of our remaining business in Russia and Belarus, while closely monitoring and analyzing the trade restrictions imposed against Russia and Belarus by the United States, the European Union (the “EU”), and several other jurisdictions to ensure HPE’s compliance with applicable laws. We cannot provide any assurance that such exit will be efficient or uninterrupted, which may negatively impact our operational expenses due to increased relocation costs or impact service delivery in such geographies. We implement policies, procedures, and training designed to facilitate compliance with anti-corruption laws around the world, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act. But in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, people may engage in business practices prohibited by anti-corruption laws. Our employees and third parties we work with may take actions in violation of our policies, and those actions could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation. We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Currencies other than the U.S. dollar, including the euro, the Japanese yen and British pound can have an impact on our results as expressed in U.S. dollars. Currency volatility contributes to variations in our sales of products and services in impacted jurisdictions. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, most notably the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against the euro, could adversely affect our revenue growth in future periods. In addition, currency variations can adversely affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside of the United States and margins on sales of products that include components obtained from suppliers located outside of the United States. From time to time, we may use forward contracts and options designated as cash flow hedges to protect against foreign currency exchange rate risks. The effectiveness of our hedges depends on our ability to accurately forecast future cash flows, which is particularly difficult during periods of uncertain demand for our products and services and highly volatile exchange rates. We may incur significant losses from our hedging activities due to factors such as demand volatility and currency variations. In addition, certain or all of our hedging activities may be ineffective, may expire and not be renewed or may not offset any or more than a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from currency variations. Losses associated with hedging activities also may impact our revenue and to a lesser extent our cost of sales and financial condition. Intellectual Property Risks Our financial performance may suffer if we cannot continue to develop, license, or enforce the intellectual property rights on which our businesses depend. We rely upon patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret, and other intellectual property laws in the United States, similar laws in other countries, and agreements with our employees, customers, suppliers, and other parties, to establish and maintain intellectual property rights in the products and services we sell, provide, or otherwise use in our operations. However, any of our intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated, infringed, or circumvented, or such intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to permit us to take advantage of current market trends or to otherwise provide competitive advantages. Further, the laws of certain countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Therefore, in certain jurisdictions we may be unable to protect our proprietary technology adequately against unauthorized third-party copying or use; this, too, could adversely affect our ability to sell products or services and our competitive position. 25 Our products and services depend in part on intellectual property and technology licensed from third parties. Much of our business and many of our products rely on key technologies developed or licensed by third parties. For example, many of our software offerings are developed using software components or other intellectual property licensed from third parties, including through both proprietary and open source licenses. These third-party software components may become obsolete, defective, or incompatible with future versions of our products, or our relationship with the third party may deteriorate, or our agreements with the third party may expire or be terminated. We may face legal or business disputes with licensors that may threaten or lead to the disruption of inbound licensing relationships. In order to remain in compliance with the terms of our licenses, we must carefully monitor and manage our use of third-party software components, including both proprietary and open source license terms that may require the licensing or public disclosure of our intellectual property without compensation or on undesirable terms. Additionally, some of these licenses may not be available to us in the future on terms that are acceptable or that allow our product offerings to remain competitive. Our inability to obtain licenses or rights on favorable terms could have a material effect on our business, including our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, it is possible that as a consequence of a merger or acquisition, third parties may obtain licenses to some of our intellectual property rights or our business may be subject to certain restrictions that were not in place prior to such transaction. Because the availability and cost of licenses from third parties depends upon the willingness of third parties to deal with us on the terms we request, there is a risk that third parties who license to our competitors will either refuse to license us at all, or refuse to license us on terms equally favorable to those granted to our competitors. Consequently, we may lose a competitive advantage with respect to these intellectual property rights or we may be required to enter into costly arrangements in order to terminate or limit these rights. Third-party claims of intellectual property infringement, including patent infringement, are commonplace in the IT industry and successful third-party claims may limit or disrupt our ability to sell our products and services. Third parties may claim that we or customers indemnified by us are infringing upon their intellectual property rights.  Patent assertion entities frequently purchase intellectual property assets for the purpose of extracting infringement settlements. If we cannot license, or replace, allegedly infringed intellectual property on reasonable terms, our operations could be adversely affected. Even if we believe that intellectual property claims are without merit, they can be time-consuming and costly to defend against and may divert management's attention and resources away from our business. Claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to redesign affected products, discontinue certain product offerings, enter into costly settlement or license agreements, pay costly damage awards, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from importing, marketing, or selling certain of our products. Even if we have an agreement to indemnify us against such costs, the indemnifying party may be unable or unwilling to uphold its contractual obligations to us. Financial Risks Failure to maintain a satisfactory credit rating could adversely affect our liquidity, capital position, borrowing costs, and access to capital markets. We currently maintain investment grade credit ratings with Moody's Investors Service, Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, and Fitch Ratings Services. Despite these investment grade credit ratings, any future downgrades could increase the cost of borrowing under any indebtedness we may incur, reduce market capacity for our commercial paper, or require the posting of additional collateral under our derivative contracts. Additionally, increased borrowing costs, including those arising from a credit rating downgrade, can potentially reduce the competitiveness of our financing business. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our credit ratings, and any additional actual or anticipated changes or downgrades in our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under review for a downgrade, may have a negative impact on our liquidity, capital position, and access to capital markets. Our debt obligations may adversely affect our business and our ability to meet our obligations and pay dividends. In addition to our current total carrying debt, we may also incur additional indebtedness in the future. This collective amount of debt could have important adverse consequences to us and our investors, including: • requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make principal and interest payments; • making it more difficult to satisfy other obligations; • increasing the risk of a future credit ratings downgrade of our debt, which could increase future debt costs and limit the future availability of debt financing; • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • reducing the cash flows available to fund capital expenditures and other corporate purposes and to grow our business; • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; and 26 • limiting our ability to borrow additional funds as needed or take advantage of business opportunities as they arise, pay cash dividends or repurchase our common stock. Recent quantitative tightening by the U.S. Federal Reserve, along with other central banks around the world, may affect our short-term ability or desire to incur debt. To the extent that we incur additional indebtedness, the risks described above could increase. In addition, our actual cash requirements in the future may be greater than expected. Our cash flow from operations may not be sufficient to service our outstanding debt or to repay our outstanding debt as it becomes due, and we may not be able to borrow money, sell assets, or otherwise raise funds on acceptable terms, or at all, to service or refinance our debt. The revenue and profitability of our operations have historically varied, which makes our future financial results less predictable. Our revenue, gross margin, and profit vary among our diverse products and services, customer groups, and geographic markets and therefore, will likely be different in future periods than our historical results. Our revenue depends on the overall demand for our products and services. Delays or reductions in IT spending by our customers or potential customers could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services, which could result in a significant decline in revenue. In addition, revenue declines in some of our businesses may affect revenue in our other businesses as we may lose cross-selling opportunities. Overall gross margins and profitability in any given period are dependent partially on the product, service, customer, and geographic mix reflected in that period's net revenue. The conflict between Russia and Ukraine and the trade sanctions imposed by the U.S., the EU, and other countries in response have negatively impacted our operations and financial performance in both countries. There could be additional negative impacts to our net revenues, earnings, and cash flows should the situation escalate beyond its current scope, including, among other potential impacts, economic recessions in certain neighboring countries or globally, due to inflationary pressures and supply chain cost increases or the geographic proximity of the war relative to the rest of Europe. Furthermore, the relationship between China and the U.S., and any subsequent action that may be taken by either country, may negatively impact our operations and financial performance. There could be additional uncertainty surrounding the enforceability of contract obligations, as well as the timing and form of payments from China. Competition, lawsuits, investigations, increases in component and manufacturing costs that we are unable to pass on to our customers, component supply disruptions, and other risks affecting our businesses may have a significant impact on our overall gross margin and profitability. Variations in fixed cost structure and gross margins across business units and product portfolios may lead to significant operating profit volatility on a quarterly or annual basis. In addition, newer geographic market opportunities may be relatively less profitable due to our investments associated with entering those markets and local pricing pressures, and we may have difficulty establishing and maintaining the operating infrastructure necessary to support the high growth rate associated with some of those markets. Market trends, industry shifts, competitive pressures, commoditization of products, increased component or shipping costs, regulatory impacts, and other factors may result in reductions in revenue or pressure on gross margins of certain segments in a given period, which may lead to adjustments to our operations. Moreover, our efforts to address the challenges facing our business could increase the level of variability in our financial results because the rate at which we are able to realize the benefits from those efforts may vary from period to period. Our uneven sales cycle and supply chain disruptions make planning and inventory management difficult and future financial results less predictable. In some of our businesses, our quarterly sales have periodically reflected a pattern in which a disproportionate percentage of each quarter's total sales occurs towards the end of the quarter. This uneven sales pattern makes predicting revenue, earnings, cash flow from operations, and working capital for each financial period difficult, increases the risk of unanticipated variations in our quarterly results and financial condition, and places pressure on our inventory management and logistics systems. If predicted demand is substantially greater than orders, there may be excess inventory. Alternatively, if orders substantially exceed predicted demand, we may not be able to fulfill all of the orders received in each quarter and such orders may be canceled. Depending on when they occur in a quarter, developments such as a systems failure, component pricing movements, component shortages, or global logistics disruptions, could adversely impact our inventory levels and results of operations in a manner that is disproportionate to the number of days in the quarter affected. We experience some seasonal trends in the sale of our products that also may produce variations in our quarterly results and financial condition. Many of the factors that create and affect seasonal trends are beyond our control. Separately, supply chain shortages and constraints have, in some instances, resulted in increases to the costs of production of our hardware products that we may not be able to pass on to our customers. We have, in some instances, responded to such constraints by committing to higher inventory purchases and balances relative to our historical positions in order to secure manufacturing capacity. While these measures have been taken to shorten lead times to deliver products to customers, they may 27 also result in excess or obsolete components in the future if the demand for our products is less than we anticipate, which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. We make estimates and assumptions in connection with the preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements and any changes to those estimates and assumptions could adversely affect our results of operations. In connection with the preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements, we use certain estimates and assumptions based on historical experience and other factors. Our most critical accounting estimates are described in the section entitled "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." In addition, as discussed in Note 1, "Overview and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies—Use of Estimates" and Note 17, "Litigation and Contingencies," to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II, we make certain estimates, including decisions related to provisions for legal proceedings and other contingencies. While we believe that these estimates and assumptions are reasonable under the circumstances, they are subject to significant uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. Should any of these estimates and assumptions change or prove to have been incorrect, it could adversely affect our results of operations. Regulatory Risks Our business is subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that could result in costs or other sanctions that adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are subject to various federal, state, local, and foreign laws and regulations such as those concerning environmental protection. For example, we face increasing complexity related to product design; the use of regulated, hazardous, and scarce materials; the associated energy consumption and efficiency related to the use of products; the transportation and shipping of products; climate change regulations; and the reuse, recycling and/or disposal of products and their components at end-of-use or useful life as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to our transition to a more circular economy. A significant portion of our hardware revenues come from international sales. Any changes to current environmental legal requirements, such as the EU's Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive, the EU's Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive,  China's regulation on Management Methods for Controlling Pollution Caused by Electronic Information Products, the EU's Lot 9 regulation on product energy efficiency, and India's regulation on e-waste collection and recycling, among others, may increase our cost of doing business internationally and impact our hardware revenues from the EU, China, India and/or other countries proposing or adopting similar environmental legal requirements. In addition, other ESG-related laws, regulations, treaties, and similar initiatives and programs are being proposed, adopted, and implemented throughout the world (including, but not limited to, the European Commission’s proposal on Corporate Sustainability Due Diligence). If we were to violate or become liable under environmental or certain ESG-related laws or if our products become non-compliant with such laws or market access requirements, it could result in loss of market access or limit offerings in those markets or our customers may refuse to purchase our products, and we could incur costs or face other sanctions, such as restrictions on our products entering certain jurisdictions, fines, and/or civil or criminal sanctions. Environmental regulations may also impact the availability and cost of energy or emissions related to energy consumption which may increase our cost of manufacturing and/or the cost of powering and cooling owned IT infrastructures. In addition, our business is subject to an ever-growing number of laws addressing privacy and information security. In particular, we face an increasingly complex regulatory environment as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the security of our offerings. The increase in as-a-service offerings may also be impacted by data localization and international data transfer requirements under various privacy laws, including those arising from the Schrems II ruling in Europe. If we were to violate or become liable under laws or regulations associated with privacy or security, we could incur substantial costs or face other sanctions. Our potential exposure includes regulatory fines and civil or criminal sanctions third-party claims and reputational damage. Failure to comply with government contracting regulations could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our contracts with federal, state, provincial, and local governmental customers are subject to various government procurement laws and regulations, required contract provisions, and other requirements relating to contract formation, administration, and performance, as well as manufacturing content and security requirements. Any violation of government contracting laws and regulations or contract terms could result in the imposition of various civil and criminal penalties, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments and fines, treble damages, and suspension from future government contracting. Such failures could also cause reputational damage to our business. In addition, we will continue to be subject to qui tam litigation brought by private individuals on behalf of the government relating to our government contracts. If we are suspended or disbarred from government work or if our ability to compete for new government contracts is adversely affected, our financial performance could suffer. 28 Unanticipated changes in our tax provisions, the adoption of new tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities could affect our financial performance. We are subject to income and other taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our tax liabilities are affected by the amounts we charge in intercompany transactions for inventory, services, licenses, funding, and other items. We are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. Tax authorities may disagree with our intercompany charges, cross-jurisdictional transfer pricing or other matters, and may assess additional taxes as a result. There can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the amounts ultimately paid upon resolution of audits could be materially different from the amounts previously included in our income tax expense and therefore could have a material impact on our tax provision, net income and cash flows. In addition, our effective tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by changes to our operating structure, changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws, and the discovery of new information in the course of our tax return preparation process. The carrying value of our deferred tax assets is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, an international association of 34 countries including the United States, has proposed changes to numerous long-standing tax principles. These proposals, if finalized and adopted by the associated countries, would impose a global minimum corporate tax rate of 15%, could increase tax complexity and uncertainty, and may adversely affect our provision for income taxes. During fiscal 2019, we executed a Termination and Mutual Release Agreement which terminated our Tax Matters Agreement with HP Inc. Because we now have limited indemnity rights from HP Inc., we potentially bear more economic risk for certain potential unfavorable tax assessments. On August 16, 2022, the U.S. government enacted the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (the “Inflation Reduction Act”) into law, which includes a new corporate alternative minimum tax (the "Corporate AMT"), beginning in fiscal 2024, of 15% on the adjusted financial statement income (“AFSI”) of corporations with average AFSI exceeding $1.0 billion over a three-year period and an excise tax of 1% tax on the fair market value of net stock repurchases made after December 31, 2022. The impact of this provision will be dependent on the extent of share repurchases made in future periods. We are evaluating the Corporate AMT and its potential impact on our future U.S. tax expense, cash taxes, and effective tax rate, as well as any other impacts the Inflation Reduction Act may have on our financial position and results of operations. Risks Related to Prior Separations The stock distribution in either or both of the completed separations of our former Enterprise Services business and our former Software segment could result in significant tax liability, and DXC Technology Company or Micro Focus International plc (as applicable) may in certain cases be obligated to indemnify us for any such tax liability imposed on us. The completed separations and mergers of our former Enterprise Services business with DXC Technology Company ("DXC") (the "Everett Transaction" or "Everett") and our Software Segment with Micro Focus International plc ("Micro Focus") (the "Seattle Transaction" or "Seattle") were conditioned upon the receipt of an opinion from outside counsel regarding the qualification of (i) the relevant distribution and related transactions as a "reorganization" within the meaning of Sections 368(a), 361 and 355 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the "Code"); and (ii) the relevant merger as a "reorganization" within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code. While the Seattle Transaction generally qualified for tax-free treatment for us, Seattle SpinCo and Micro Focus, the acquisition of Seattle SpinCo by Micro Focus resulted in the recognition of gain (but not loss) for U.S. persons who received Micro Focus American Depositary Shares in the Software separation. Each opinion of outside counsel was based upon and relied on, among other things, certain facts and assumptions, as well as certain representations, statements and undertakings of us, Everett SpinCo and CSC, or us, Seattle SpinCo and Micro Focus, as applicable. If any of these representations, statements or undertakings are, or become, inaccurate or incomplete, or if any party breaches any of its covenants in the relevant separation documents, the relevant opinion of counsel may be invalid and the conclusions reached therein could be jeopardized. Notwithstanding the opinions of counsel, the Internal Revenue Service (the "IRS") could determine that either or both of the distributions should be treated as a taxable transaction if it determines that any of the facts, assumptions, representations, statements or undertakings upon which the relevant opinion of counsel was based are false or have been violated, or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion of counsel. An opinion of counsel is not binding on the IRS and there can be no assurance that the IRS will not assert a contrary position. If the distribution of Everett SpinCo or Seattle SpinCo, as applicable, together with certain related transactions, failed to qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Code, in general, we would recognize taxable gain as if we had sold the stock of Everett SpinCo or Seattle SpinCo, as applicable, in a taxable sale for its fair market value, and our stockholders who receive Everett SpinCo shares or Seattle SpinCo 29 shares in the relevant distribution would be subject to tax as if they had received a taxable distribution equal to the fair market value of such shares. We obtained private letter rulings from the IRS regarding certain U.S. federal income tax matters relating to the separation of our Enterprise Services business and Software Segment. Those rulings concluded that certain transactions in those separations are generally tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The conclusions of the IRS private letter rulings were based, among other things, on various factual assumptions we have authorized and representations we have made to the IRS. If any of these assumptions or representations are, or become, inaccurate or incomplete, the validity of the IRS private letter rulings may be affected. Notwithstanding the foregoing, we incurred certain tax costs in connection with the completed separation of our former Enterprise Services business and Software Segment, including non-U.S. tax expenses resulting from the completed separation of our former Enterprise Services business and Software Segment in multiple non-U.S. jurisdictions that do not legally provide for tax-free separations, which may be material. If the completed separation of our former Enterprise Services business or Software Segment (including certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of those separations) are determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we, our stockholders that are subject to U.S. federal income tax and/or DXC and/or Micro Focus could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities. Under the tax matters agreements entered into by us with Everett SpinCo and CSC, and with Seattle SpinCo and Micro Focus, Everett SpinCo and Seattle SpinCo generally would be required to indemnify us for any taxes resulting from the relevant separation (and any related costs and other damages) to the extent such amounts resulted from (i) certain actions taken by, or acquisitions of capital stock of, Everett SpinCo or Seattle SpinCo, as applicable (excluding actions required by the documents governing the relevant separation), or (ii) any breach of certain representations and covenants made by Everett SpinCo or Seattle SpinCo, as applicable. Any such indemnity obligations could be material. We continue to face a number of risks related to our separation from HP Inc., our former parent, including those associated with ongoing indemnification obligations, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, and shared use of certain intellectual property rights, which could in the future adversely impact our reputation. In connection with our separation from HP Inc. on November 1, 2015 (the "Separation"), Hewlett Packard Enterprise and HP Inc. entered into several agreements that determine the allocation of assets and liabilities between the companies following the Separation and include any necessary indemnifications related to liabilities and obligations. In these agreements, HP Inc. agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities, and we agreed to indemnify HP Inc. for certain liabilities, including cross-indemnities that are designed and intended to place financial responsibility for the obligations and liabilities of our business with us, and financial responsibility for the obligations and liabilities of HP Inc.'s business with HP Inc. We may be obligated to fully indemnify HP Inc. for certain liabilities under the Separation agreements or HP Inc. may not be able to fully cover their indemnification obligations to us under the same Separation agreements. Each of these risks could negatively affect our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. In addition, the terms of the Separation also include licenses and other arrangements to provide for certain ongoing use of intellectual property in the operations of both businesses. For example, through a joint brand holding structure, both Hewlett Packard Enterprise and HP Inc. retain the ability to make ongoing use of certain variations of the legacy Hewlett-Packard and HP branding, respectively. As a result of this continuing shared use of the legacy branding there is a risk that conduct or events adversely affecting the reputation of HP Inc. could also adversely affect the reputation of Hewlett Packard Enterprise. General Risks Our stock price has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate, which may make future prices of our stock difficult to predict. Investors should not rely on recent or historical trends to predict future stock prices, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Our stock price, like that of other technology companies, can be volatile and can be affected by, among other things, speculation, coverage, or sentiment in the media or the investment community; the announcement of new, planned or contemplated products, services, technological innovations, acquisitions, divestitures, or other significant transactions by us or our competitors; developments in our transformation programs or in our transition to an as-a-service business model; our quarterly financial results and comparisons to estimates by the investment community or financial outlook provided by us; the financial results and business strategies of our competitors; inflation; market volatility or downturns caused by outbreaks, epidemics, pandemics, geopolitical tensions or conflicts, or other macroeconomic dynamics; developments relating to pending investigations, claims, and disputes; or the timing and amount of our share repurchases. General or industry specific market conditions or stock market performance or domestic or international macroeconomic and geopolitical factors unrelated to Hewlett Packard Enterprise's performance also may affect the price of Hewlett Packard Enterprise's stock. Volatility in the price of our securities could result in the filing of securities class action litigation matters, which could result in substantial costs and the diversion of management time and resources. 30

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

For purposes of this Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A") section, we use the terms "Hewlett Packard Enterprise", "HPE", "the Company", "we", "us", and "our" to refer to Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company. References in the MD&A section to "former Parent" refer to HP Inc. This section of this Form 10-K generally discusses fiscal 2022 and fiscal 2021 items and year-to-year comparisons between fiscal 2022 and fiscal 2021. Discussions of fiscal 2020 items and year-to-year comparisons between fiscal 2021 and fiscal 2020 that are not included in this Form 10-K can be found in "Part II,  Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2021, as filed with the SEC on December 10, 2021, which is available on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. We intend the discussion of our financial condition and results of operations that follows to provide information that will assist the reader in understanding our Consolidated Financial Statements, changes in certain key items in those financial statements from year to year, and the primary factors that accounted for those changes, as well as how certain accounting principles, policies and estimates affect our Consolidated Financial Statements. This discussion should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes that appear elsewhere in this document. This MD&A is organized as follows: • Trends and Uncertainties. A discussion of material events and uncertainties known to management, such as the ongoing macroeconomic environment of supply chain constraints and inflationary pressures, our managed exit from Russia and Belarus, recent tax legislation, and other events. • Executive Overview. A discussion of our business and a summary of our financial performance and other highlights, including non-GAAP financial measures, affecting the Company in order to provide context to the remainder of the MD&A. • Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates. A discussion of accounting policies and estimates that we believe are important to understanding the assumptions and judgments incorporated in our reported financial results. • Results of Operations. A discussion of the results of operations at the consolidated level is followed by a discussion of the results of operations at the segment level. • Liquidity and Capital Resources. An analysis and discussion of changes in our cash flows, financial condition, liquidity, and cash requirements and commitments. • GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation . Each non-GAAP financial measure has been reconciled to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure therein. This section also includes a discussion of the usefulness of non-GAAP financial measures, and material limitations associated with the use of non-GAAP financial measures. 34 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) TRENDS AND UNCERTAINTIES The overall demand environment continues to improve but remains impacted by industry-wide supply constraints, which  contributed to a challenging supply chain environment, and inflationary pressures, both of which have been driving up material, logistics, and overall costs. The pandemic-related lockdowns in China we experienced in the first half of the fiscal period alleviated somewhat in the second half of the fiscal period. The challenging supply chain environment moderated our full-year revenue growth, elevated costs, and delayed certain unit shipments, resulting in part in a higher level of backlog and related inventory at the end of the current period as compared to the end of the prior-year period. To address the challenging supply chain environment, we are taking proactive measures such as guiding certain customer demand to specific products, enhancing component engineering design, and multi-sourcing with indirect procurement. We expect the supply chain environment to continue to present challenges in the near term. Additionally, we are experiencing a challenging foreign exchange environment, which has moderated our revenue and earnings growth. We expect the unfavorable foreign exchange effects and inflationary trend to continue in the longer term. We expect the substantial completion of our HPE Next and cost optimization and prioritization restructuring plans coupled with related cost reduction measures, and operational efficiencies, to moderate the impact of unfavorable foreign exchange effects and inflationary pressures in fiscal 2023. Russia/Ukraine Conflict T he conflict between Russia and Ukraine and the related sanctions imposed by the U.S., European Union ("EU"), and other countries in response have negatively impacted our operations in both countries and increased economic and political uncertainty across the world. In response to the sanctions imposed, in February 2022, we suspended all new sales and shipments to Russia and Belarus and implemented compliance measures to address the continuously changing regulatory landscape. Based on a further assessment of business risks and needs, in June 2022, we determined that it is no longer tenable to maintain operations in Russia and Belarus and have been proceeding with an orderly, managed exit of our remaining business in these countries. In fiscal 2021, our operations in Russia and Belarus accounted for approximately 2% of our total net revenue. During fiscal 2022, we recorded total pre-tax charges of $161 million primarily related to expected credit losses of financing and trade receivables, employee severance, and abandoned assets, $99 million of which was included in Financing cost, $12 million in Cost of services, and $50 million in Disaster charges in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. We will continue monitoring the social, political, regulatory, and economic environment in Russia and Ukraine, and will consider further actions as appropriate. More broadly, there could be additional adverse impacts to our net revenues, earnings, and cash flows should the situation continue or escalate geopolitical tensions and the impacts of recession, inflation, and supply chain pressures, both regionally and globally. Recent U.S. Tax Legislation On August 16, 2022, the U.S. government enacted the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (the “Inflation Reduction Act”) into law. The Inflation Reduction Act includes a new corporate alternative minimum tax (the “Corporate AMT”) of 15% on the adjusted financial statement income (“AFSI”) of corporations with average AFSI exceeding $1.0 billion over a three-year period. The Corporate AMT is effective for the Company beginning in fiscal 2024. We are evaluating the Corporate AMT and its potential impact on our future U.S. tax expense, cash taxes, and effective tax rate. Additionally, the Inflation Reduction Act imposes an excise tax of 1% tax on the fair market value of net stock repurchases made after December 31, 2022. The impact of this provision will be dependent on the extent of share repurchases made in future periods. Other Trends and Uncertainties We are in the process of addressing many challenges facing our business. One set of challenges include dynamic and accelerating market trends, such as the market shift of workloads to cloud-related information technology ("IT") infrastructure business models, emergence of software-defined architectures and converged infrastructure functionality, and growth in IT consumption models. Certain of our legacy hardware server and storage businesses face challenges as customers migrate to cloud-based offerings and reduce their purchases of hardware products. Therefore, the demand environment for traditional server and storage products is challenging, and lower traditional compute and storage unit volume is impacting support attach opportunities within the associated services organization. 35 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Another set of challenges relates to changes in the competitive landscape. Our major competitors are expanding their product and service offerings with integrated products and solutions, our business-specific competitors are exerting increased competitive pressure in targeted areas and are entering new markets, our emerging competitors are introducing new technologies and business models, and our alliance partners in some businesses are increasingly becoming our competitors. A third set of challenges relates to business model changes and our go-to-market execution. We provide our customers with a choice between traditional consumption models or software consumption-based, pay-per-use and as-a-service offerings across our entire portfolio of HPE products and services. Additionally, the global pandemic has accelerated several trends relevant to the Company. First, the exponential increase of data at the edge driven by the proliferation of devices. Second, the need for a cloud experience everywhere to manage the growth of data at the edge. Third, data growth is creating new opportunities with the need to quickly extract value from the captured data. Enterprises have embraced multi-cloud strategies, as they recognize the need for different cloud environments for different types of data and workloads. Increasingly, customers want to digitally transform, while preserving capital and eliminating operating expense, by paying only for the IT they use. In response to the aforementioned challenges, we are accelerating our development and innovation efforts in the areas of our strategic focus, including the Intelligent Edge and HPC & AI businesses, while at the same time, strengthening our core Compute and Storage businesses, by investing in key areas of growth and accelerating our as-a-service pivot to become the edge-to-cloud company for our customers and partners with our HPE GreenLake edge-to-cloud platform. During the fiscal period, we announced significant advancements to our HPE GreenLake edge-to-cloud platform, our flagship hybrid offering that enables organizations to modernize all their applications and data, from edge to cloud and supports multi-cloud experiences everywhere – including clouds that live on-premises, at the edge, in a colocation facility, and in a public cloud. The platform advancements included a unified operating experience with one view of all services edge to cloud along with convergence with the Aruba Central cloud service, twelve new cloud services including network as-a-service, data services, high performance computing functions, compute operations management, and availability of the HPE GreenLake edge-to-cloud platform in the online marketplaces of several leading distributors. We also launched HPE GreenLake for Private Cloud Enterprise, which is a private cloud experience for traditional and cloud-native workloads. These updates strengthen the HPE GreenLake edge-to-cloud platform and help customers drive their data modernization needs. The following Executive Overview, Results of Operations and Liquidity discussions and analysis compare fiscal 2022 to fiscal 2021, unless otherwise noted. The Capital Resources and, Cash Requirements and Commitments sections present information as of October 31, 2022, unless otherwise noted. EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW Net revenue of $28.5 billion represented an increase of 2.6% (increased 5.1% on a constant currency basis) as robust demand reflected by a high order backlog was moderated by a combination of unfavorable currency fluctuations, ongoing supply chain constraints, and lower revenue from Russia. The net revenue increase was led by effective pricing management in server products and strong demand for networking products. The gross profit margin of 33.4% (or $9.5 billion) represents a decrease of 0.3 percentage points and was primarily driven by a combination of supply chain constraints and related cost increases, higher costs in HPC & AI, and unfavorable currency fluctuations. Moderating the gross profit decrease was pricing discipline and strong cost management in server products. The operating profit margin of 2.7%, represents a decrease of 1.4 percentage points primarily due to goodwill impairment charges for the HPC & AI and Software businesses. The decrease in o perating profit margin was primarily moderated by lower transformation costs. We generated $4.6 billion of cash flow from operations and $1.8 billion of free cash flows primarily due to improved working capital management. 36 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Financial Results The following table summarizes our consolidated GAAP financial results: The following table summarizes our consolidated non-GAAP financial results: Each non-GAAP financial measure has been reconciled to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure herein. Please refer to the section "GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliations" included in this MD&A for these reconciliations, usefulness of non-GAAP financial measures, and material limitations associated with the use of non-GAAP financial measures. Annualized Revenue Run-rate ("ARR") Our pivot to as-a-service continues its strong momentum with the addition of HPE GreenLake Cloud Services. Our mix of ARR is becoming more software-rich as we build our HPE GreenLake edge-to-cloud platform, which is improving our margin profile. On the innovation front, we announced a transformative new data storage services platform that brings our cloud operations model to wherever data lives by unifying data operations. The platform will be available through HPE GreenLake Central and includes a new data services cloud console and a suite of software subscription services that simplifies and automates global infrastructure at scale. We will continue to invest aggressively in HPE GreenLake Cloud Services to provide a true cloud experience and operating model, whether at the edge, on-premises or across multiple clouds. ARR represents the annualized revenue of all net HPE GreenLake edge-to-cloud platform services revenue, related financial services revenue (which includes rental income from operating leases and interest income from finance leases), and software-as-a-service, software consumption revenue, and other as-a-service offerings, recognized during a quarter and multiplied by four. We use ARR as a performance metric. ARR should be viewed independently of net revenue and is not intended to be combined with it. 37 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) The following presents our ARR as of October 31, 2022 and 2021: The 17% year over year increase in ARR represents growth from our HPE GreenLake edge-to-cloud platform and related financial services. The growth in the HPE GreenLake edge-to-cloud platform was due to an expanding customer installed base moderated by unfavorable currency fluctuations, supply chain constraints and related installation delays. At the segment level, the growth is led by Storage as-a-service including Zerto and Intelligent Edge as-a-service activity. Returning capital to our shareholders remains an important part of our capital allocation framework, which also consists of strategic investments. We believe our existing balance of cash and cash equivalents, along with commercial paper and other short-term liquidity arrangements, are sufficient to satisfy our working capital needs, capital asset purchases, dividends, debt repayments, and other liquidity requirements associated with our existing operations. As of October 31, 2022, our cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash were $4.76 billion, compared to $4.33 billion as of October 31, 2021, representing an increase of $0.43 billion. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Our Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP"), which requires us to make estimates, judgments, and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, net revenue and expenses, and the disclosure of contingent liabilities. A summary of significant accounting policies and a summary of recent accounting pronouncements applicable to our Consolidated Financial Statements are included in Note 1, "Overview and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies", to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II. An accounting policy is deemed to be critical if the nature of the estimate or assumption it incorporates is subject to material level of judgment related to matters that are highly uncertain and changes in those estimates and assumptions are reasonably likely to materially impact our Consolidated Financial Statements. Estimates and judgments are based on historical experience, forecasted events, and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Estimates and judgments may vary under different assumptions or conditions. We evaluate our estimates and judgments on an ongoing basis. We believe the accounting policies below are critical in the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations and require management’s most difficult, subjective, or complex judgments. Revenue Recognition We enter into contracts with customers that may include combinations of products and services, resulting in arrangements containing multiple performance obligations for hardware and software products and/or various services. The majority of our revenue is derived from sales of products and services and the associated support and maintenance, and such revenue is recognized when, or as, control of promised products or services is transferred to the customer at the transaction price. Transaction price is adjusted for variable consideration which may be offered in contracts with customers, partners, and distributors and may include rebates, volume-based discounts, cooperative marketing, price protection, and other incentive programs. Significant judgment is applied in determining the transaction price as we may be required to estimate variable consideration at the time of revenue recognition. When determining the amount of revenue to recognize, we estimate the expected usage of these programs, applying the expected value or most likely estimate and update the estimate at each reporting period as actual utilization becomes available. Variable consideration is recognized only to the extent that it is probable that a significant reversal of revenue will not occur. We also consider the customers' right of return in determining the transaction price, where applicable. 38 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) To recognize revenue for the products and services for which control has been transferred, we allocate the transaction price for the contract among the performance obligations on a relative standalone selling price ("SSP") basis. We establish SSP for most of our products and services based on the observable price of the products or services when sold separately in similar circumstances to similar customers. When the SSP is not directly observable, we estimate SSP based on management judgment by considering available data, such as internal margin objectives, pricing strategies, market/competitive conditions, historical profitability data, as well as other observable inputs. We establish SSP ranges for our products and services and reassesses them periodically. Taxes on Earnings We calculate our current and deferred tax provisions based on estimates and assumptions that could differ from the final positions reflected in our income tax returns. We adjust our current and deferred tax provisions based on our tax returns which are generally filed in the third or fourth quarters of the subsequent fiscal year. We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected tax consequences of temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which we expect the differences to reverse. We record a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that we are more likely than not to realize. In determining the need for a valuation allowance, we consider future market growth, forecasted earnings, future sources of taxable income, the mix of earnings in the jurisdictions in which we operate, and prudent and feasible tax planning strategies.  In order for us to realize our deferred tax assets, we must be able to generate sufficient taxable income in the jurisdictions in which the deferred tax assets are located. Our effective tax rate includes the impact of certain undistributed foreign earnings and basis differences for which we have not provided for U.S. federal taxes because we plan to reinvest such earnings and basis differences indefinitely outside the U.S. We will remit non-indefinitely reinvested earnings of our non-U.S. subsidiaries for which deferred U.S. state income and foreign withholding taxes have been provided where excess cash has accumulated and when we determine that it is advantageous for business operations, tax, or cash management reasons. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and approximately 90 other countries, and we are subject to routine corporate income tax audits in many of these jurisdictions. We believe that positions taken on our tax returns are fully supported, but tax authorities may challenge these positions, which may not be fully sustained on examination by the relevant tax authorities. Accordingly, our income tax provision includes amounts intended to satisfy assessments that may result from these challenges. Determining the income tax provision for these potential assessments and recording the related effects requires management judgments and estimates. The amounts ultimately paid on resolution of an audit could be materially different from the amounts previously included in our income tax provision and, therefore, could have a material impact on our (Provision) benefit for taxes, Net earnings (loss) and cash flows. Our accrual for uncertain tax positions is attributable primarily to uncertainties concerning the tax treatment of our international operations, including the allocation of income among different jurisdictions, intercompany transactions and related interest, and uncertain tax positions from acquired companies. For further discussion on taxes on earnings, refer to Note 6, "Taxes on Earnings", to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II. Goodwill We review goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level annually on the first day of the fourth quarter, or whenever events or circumstances indicate the carrying amount of goodwill may not be recoverable. We are permitted to conduct a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is necessary to perform a quantitative goodwill impairment test. As of October 31, 2022, our reporting units with goodwill are consistent with the reportable segments identified in Note 2, "Segment Information" to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II, with the exception of Corporate Investments and Other which contains three reporting units, Software, CMS and A & PS. When performing the goodwill impairment test, we compare the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying amount. An impairment exists if the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. Estimating the fair value of a reporting unit is judgmental in nature and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. We estimate the fair value of our reporting units using a weighting of fair values derived mostly from the income approach and, to a lesser extent, the market approach, with the exception of the Software reporting unit which uses a weighting derived mostly from the market approach. Under the income approach, the fair value of a reporting unit is based on discounted cash flow analysis of management's short-term and long-term forecast of operating performance. This analysis includes significant assumptions 39 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) regarding revenue growth rates, expected operating margins, and timing of expected future cash flows based on market conditions and customer acceptances. The discount rate used is based on the weighted-average cost of capital of comparable public companies adjusted for the relevant risk associated with business specific characteristics and the uncertainty related to the reporting unit's ability to execute on the projected cash flows. Under the market approach, the fair value is based on market multiples of revenue and earnings derived from comparable publicly traded companies with operating and investment characteristics similar to the reporting unit. We weight the fair value derived from the market approach commensurate with the level of comparability of these publicly traded companies to the reporting unit. When market comparables are not meaningful or not available, we estimate the fair value of a reporting unit using the income approach. In addition, we make certain judgments and assumptions in allocating shared assets and liabilities to individual reporting units to determine the carrying amount of each reporting unit. Our fiscal 2022 annual goodwill impairment analysis resulted in impairment charges for goodwill related to the HPC & AI and Software reporting units. There was no impairment of goodwill for our other reporting units. The decline in the fair value of the HPC & AI reporting unit below its carrying value resulted from changes in expected future cash flows as compared to our fiscal 2021 long-term plan due to the continuation of supply chain constraints, and other operational challenges as well as an increase in cost of capital. Prior to the quantitative goodwill impairment test, we tested the recoverability of long-lived assets and other assets of the HPC & AI reporting unit and concluded that such assets were not impaired. As a result, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $815 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2022. The HPC & AI reporting unit has remaining goodwill allocated of $2.9 billion as of October 31, 2022 and an excess of fair value over carrying value of net assets of 0% as of the annual test date. The HPC & AI business is facing challenges reflected in the results for the year ended October 31, 2022. The challenges are primarily related to supply chain constraints and other operational challenges impacting our ability to achieve certain customer acceptance milestones required for revenue recognition and resulting cost increases associated with fulfilling contracts over longer than originally anticipated timelines. We currently believe these challenges will be successfully addressed when supply chain constraints ease. If the global macroeconomic or geopolitical conditions worsen, projected revenue growth rates or operating margins decline, weighted average cost of capital increases, or if we have significant or sustained decline in our stock price, it is possible our estimates about the HPC & AI reporting unit's ability to successfully address the current challenges may change, which could result in the carrying value of the HPC & AI reporting unit exceeding its estimated fair value and potential impairment charges. The decline in the fair value of the Software reporting unit resulted primarily from a decline in market multiples. Prior to the quantitative goodwill impairment test, we tested the recoverability of long-lived assets and other assets of the Software reporting unit and concluded that such assets were not impaired. As a result, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of $90 million in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2022. The Software reporting unit has remaining goodwill allocated of $123 million as of October 31, 2022 and an excess of fair value over carrying value of net assets of 0% as of the annual test date. As noted above, the Software reporting unit relies significantly on the market approach, which is impacted by market volatility. If global macroeconomic or geopolitical conditions worsen and cause a further decline in equity market or if revenue expectations are not met, this could result in the carrying value of the Software reporting unit exceeding its estimated fair value and potential impairment charges. The excess of fair value over carrying amount for our reporting units, excluding HPC & AI and Software, ranged from approximately 22% to 142% of the respective carrying amounts. In order to evaluate the sensitivity of the estimated fair value of our other reporting units in the goodwill impairment test, we applied a hypothetical 10% decrease to the fair value of each reporting unit. Based on the results of this hypothetical 10% decrease, all of the other reporting units had an excess of fair value over carrying amount. Contingencies We are subject to the possibility of losses from various contingencies. Significant judgment is necessary to estimate the probability and amount of a loss, if any, from such contingencies. An accrual is made when it is probable that a liability has been incurred or an asset has been impaired and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. We review these matters at least quarterly and adjust these liabilities to reflect the impact of negotiations, settlements, rulings, advice of legal counsel, and other updated information and events, pertaining to a particular case. Based on our experience, we believe that any damage amounts claimed in the specific litigation and contingency matters further discussed in Note 17, "Litigation and Contingencies", to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II, are 40 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) not a meaningful indicator of our potential liability. Litigation is inherently unpredictable. However, we believe we have valid defenses with respect to legal matters pending against us. Nevertheless, cash flows or results of operations could be materially affected in any particular period by the resolution of one or more of these contingencies. We believe we have recorded adequate provisions for any such matters and, as of October 31, 2022, it was not reasonably possible that a material loss had been incurred in connection with such matters in excess of the amounts recognized in our financial statements. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Revenue from our international operations has historically represented, and we expect will continue to represent, a majority of our overall net revenue. As a result, our revenue growth has been impacted, and we expect will continue to be impacted, by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. In order to provide a framework for assessing performance excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, we present the year-over-year percentage change in revenue on a constant currency basis, which assumes no change in foreign currency exchange rates from the prior-year period and does not adjust for any repricing or demand impacts from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. This change in revenue on a constant currency basis is calculated as the quotient of (a) current year revenue converted to U.S. dollars using the prior-year period's foreign currency exchange rates divided by (b) the prior-year period revenue. This information is provided so that revenue can be viewed without the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which is consistent with how management evaluates our revenue results and trends. This constant currency disclosure is provided in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the year-over-year percentage change in revenue on a GAAP basis. Other companies may calculate and define similarly labeled items differently, which may limit the usefulness of this measure for comparative purposes. Results of operations in dollars and as a percentage of net revenue were as follows: 41 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Fiscal 2022 compared with fiscal 2021 Net revenue In fiscal 2022, total net revenue of $28.5 billion, increased by $0.7 billion, or 2.6% (increased 5.1% on a constant currency basis). U.S. net revenue increased by $0.6 billion or 6.5% to $9.4 billion, while net revenue from outside of the U.S. increased by $0.1 billion or 0.7% to $19.1 billion. From a segment perspective, net revenue increased across many of our segments due to the improved demand environment led by revenue growth of 11%, 4%, and 0.3% in Intelligent Edge, Compute, and HPC & AI, respectively, and decreased 7%, 2%, 1% in Corporate Investments and Other, Financial Services, and Storage, respectively. The components of the weighted net revenue change by segment were as follows: Gross Profit For the twelve months ended October 31, 2022, the total gross profit margin of 33.4%, represents a decrease of 0.3 percentage points compared to the prior-year period. The decrease was primarily driven by a combination of supply chain constraints and related cost increases, higher costs in HPC & AI, and unfavorable currency fluctuations, with costs from expected credit losses related to exiting our Russia and Belarus businesses adding to the overall decline. Moderating the gross profit decrease was pricing discipline and strong cost management in server products. Operating expenses Research and development ("R&D") R&D expense increased by $66 million, or 3% due primarily to higher overall employee compensation expense, which contributed 1.8 percentage points to the change, and a combination of higher facilities expense, training and travel expenses, and software expenditures, which in total contributed 1.3 percentage points to the change. Selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") SG&A expense increased by $12 million, or 0.2% due primarily to higher travel expense as the economy reopens and COVID-19 restrictions ease, higher software expenditures, and the release of bad debt reserves in the prior-year period, which contributed 1.2 percentage points, 0.5 percentage points and 0.3 percentage points to the change, respectively. The increase was partially offset by a combination of lower employee cost driven by lower variable compensatio n expense and cost savings from our transformation programs which in total contributed 1.9 percentage points to the change. Additionally, the overall increase in SG&A expense was moderated across various expense categories by favorable currency fluctuations. Amortization of intangible assets Amortization expense decreased by $61 million, or 17% due to certain intangible assets associated with prior acquisitions reaching the end of their amortization periods moderated by an increase in amortization expense in the current period resulting 42 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) from recent acquisitions. Additionally, the decrease in the current fiscal period was due to certain write-offs taken in the prior fiscal period. Impairment of goodwill Impairment of goodwill for fiscal 2022 represents a partial goodwill impairment charge of $905 million recorded in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2022, as it was determined that the fair value of the HPC & AI and Software reporting units was below the carrying value of their net assets. Refer to Note 11, "Goodwill and Intangible Assets" to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II for more information. Transformation programs and costs Our transformation programs consist of the cost optimization and prioritization plan (launched in 2020) and the HPE Next initiative (launched in 2017). Transformation costs decreased by $457 million, or 49% due primarily to lower restructuring charges recorded in the current fiscal period as restructuring actions related to employee severance, infrastructure, and other under the cost optimization and prioritization plan are approaching completion primarily in fiscal 2023. For a further discussion, refer to Note 3, “Transformation Programs" to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II. Interest and other, net Interest and other, net expense decreased by $23 million due primarily to early debt redemption costs incurred in the prior-year period, while in the current-year period a combination of higher gains from the sale of certain assets, lower interest expense from lower average borrowings, and increased interest income from higher interest rates contributed to the net expense decline. This decline was moderated by the current period containing lower gains from equity investments and unfavorable currency fluctuations. Tax indemnification and related adjustments We record changes in certain pre-separation tax liabilities for which we shared joint and several liability with HP Inc. and for which we were indemnified under the Termination and Mutual Release Agreement within Tax indemnification and related adjustments. We also record changes to certain pre-separation and pre-divestiture tax liabilities and tax receivables for which we remain liable on behalf of the separated or divested business, but which may not be subject to indemnification. We recorded Tax indemnification and related adjustments expense of $67 million and income of $65 million in fiscal 2022 and 2021, respectively. Tax indemnification and related adjustments in fiscal 2022 resulted from changes in certain pre-separation tax liabilities, for which we partially shared joint and several liability with HP Inc. and for which we were indemnified under the Termination and Mutual Release Agreement, and changes to certain pre-divestiture tax liabilities and tax receivables. Tax indemnification and related adjustments in fiscal 2021 primarily included the impacts of a Brazilian Supreme Court decision received regarding the base on which two social contribution taxes in Brazil ("PIS" and "COFINS") are imposed. As a result of this decision, the Company is entitled to recover credits and associated interest related to the overpayment of these transaction taxes imposed between 2005 and 2019 to be used to offset future Brazilian tax liabilities. As such, we have recorded benefits of $17 million and $80 million, both net of taxes, for the recovery of PIS and COFINS, respectively, during fiscal 2021, of which $25 million was included in Net revenue, $10 million related to interest income was included in Interest and other, net, and $80 million related to pre-separation liabilities was included in Tax indemnification and related adjustments. The corresponding income taxes of $18 million as a result of this recovery were included in (Provision) benefit for taxes in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. Non-service net periodic benefit credit Non-service net periodic benefit credit represents the components of net periodic pension benefit costs, other than service cost, for the Hewlett Packard Enterprise defined benefit pension and post-retirement benefit plans such as interest cost, expected return on plan assets, and the amortization of prior plan amendments and actuarial gains or losses. The credit also includes the impact of any plan settlements, curtailments, or special termination benefits. 43 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Non-service net periodic benefit credit increased by $64 million due primarily to lower amortized actuarial losses, partially offset by higher interest cost due to higher discount rates and lower expected returns on assets in the current period. Litigation judgment Litigation judgment represents the $2.35 billion settlement we received in October 2021 in relation to the Itanium litigation judgment. The gain was recognized as other income and presented as a Litigation judgment in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings in the prior-year perio d. For further discussion, refer to Note 17, “Litigation and Contingencies" to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II. Earnings from equity interests Earnings from equity interests primarily represents our 49% interest in H3C Technologies and the amortization of our interest in a basis difference. Earnings from equity interests increased by $35 million due primarily to lower amortization expense from basis difference and higher net income earned by H3C in the current period, partially offset by gains from certain venture investments in the prior-year period. (Provision) benefit for taxes For fiscal 2022 and 2021, we recorded income tax expense of $8 million and $160 million, respectively, which reflect effective tax rates of 0.9% and 4.5%, respectively. Our effective tax rate generally differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% due to favorable tax rates associated with certain earnings from our operations in lower tax jurisdictions throughout the world but may also be materially impacted by discrete tax adjustments during the fiscal year. Our tax rate for fiscal 2022 also included the effects of the non-deductible goodwill impairment. The jurisdictions with favorable tax rates that had the most significant impact on our effective tax rate in the periods presented include Puerto Rico and Singapore. In fiscal 2022, we recorded $454 million of net income tax benefits related to items discrete to the year. These amounts primarily included: • $150 million of income tax benefits related to releases of foreign valuation allowances, • $99 million of income tax benefits related to transformation costs and acquisition, disposition and other related charges, • $43 million of income tax benefits related to the settlement of U.S. tax audit matters, • $42 million of income tax benefits related to the release of U.S. passive foreign tax credit valuation allowance, • $30 million of income tax benefits related to the change in pre-separation tax liabilities, primarily those for which the Company shared joint and several liability with HP Inc. and for which the Company was indemnified by HP Inc. • $27 million of income tax benefits related to the utilization of capital losses which had a full valuation allowance, • $12 million of income tax benefits as a result of the fiscal 2021 U.S. tax return filing primarily from the decrease in Global Intangible Low Taxed Income, and • $11 million of net income tax benefits related to settlements and ongoing discussions in foreign tax audit matters. In fiscal 2021, we recorded $294 million of net income tax benefits related to items discrete to the year. These amounts primarily included: • $180 million of income tax benefits related to transformation costs and acquisition, disposition and other related charges, • $157 million of income tax benefits related to releases of foreign valuation allowances, • $39 million of income tax benefits related to tax rate changes on deferred taxes, • $32 million of income tax benefits related to the change in pre-separation tax liabilities, primarily those for which we shared joint and several liability with HP Inc. and for which we were indemnified by HP Inc. • These benefits were partially offset by $337 million of net income tax charges associated with income from the Itanium litigation judgment, against which $244 million of income tax attributes previously subject to a valuation allowance were utilized, resulting in a net tax expense of $93 million. 44 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Segment Information Hewlett Packard Enterprise's organizational structure is based on a number of factors that the Chief Operating Decision Maker ("CODM"), who is the Chief Executive Officer ("CEO"), uses to evaluate, view and run our business operations, which include, but are not limited to, customer base and homogeneity of products and technology. The segments are based on this organizational structure and information reviewed by Hewlett Packard Enterprise's management to evaluate segment results. A description of the products and services for each segment, along with other pertinent information related to Segments can be found in Note 2, "Segment Information", to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II. Segment Results The following provides an overview of our key financial metrics by segment for fiscal 2022, as compared to fiscal 2021: (1) HPE consolidated net revenue excludes inter-segment net revenue. (2) Segment earnings from operations exclude certain unallocated corporate costs and eliminations, stock-based compensation expense, amortization of initial direct costs, amortization of intangible assets, impairment of goodwill, transformation costs, disaster charges and acquisition, disposition and other related charges. Compute Fiscal 2022 compared with fiscal 2021 Compute net revenue increased by $458 million, or 3.7% (increased 6.0% on a constant currency basis) primarily due to higher average unit prices resulting from a combination of increased sales of server configurations with more complex component architectures in our next generation products and disciplined pricing actions. The net revenue increase was moderated by unfavorable currency fluctuations and lower unit shipments resulting from supply constraints due to the challenging supply chain environment. As a result, we ended the period with a high level of order backlog. Compute experienced product revenue growth in the rack and synergy server categories moderated by a revenue decline due to certain products approaching their end-of-life. Services net revenue declined primarily due to lower revenue from Russia and the impact of delayed hardware shipments on services contracts. Compute earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue increased 3.2 percentage po ints due to decreases in costs of products and services as a percentage of net revenue and operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue. The decrease in costs of products and services as a percentage of net revenue was primarily due to pricing discipline and strong cost management partially offset by unfavorable currency fluctuations and the impact of supply chain constraints and related costs. 45 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) The decrease in operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue was primarily due to cost reduction measures and lower variable compensation expense. HPC & AI Fiscal 2022 compared with fiscal 2021 HPC & AI net revenue increased by $8 million or 0.3% (increased 1.9% on a constant currency basis) as a result of growth in HPC led by Converged Edge Systems (formerly known as Edge Compute) and in Data Solutions. The increase was moderated by a decline in net revenue from HPE Cray products as a result of supply chain constraints and other operational challenges impacting the achievement of certain customer acceptance milestones required for revenue recognition. The increase in net revenue was also moderated by lower services revenue due primarily to an unfavorable portfolio mix of service offerings and unfavorable currency fluctuations. HPC & AI earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue decrease d 7.0 per centage points primarily due to increases in cost of products and services as a percentage of net revenue and operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue. The increase in cost of products and services as a percentage of net revenue was due primarily to higher operational costs, supply chain constraints and related cost increases, and lower revenue from higher-margin services. The increase in operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue was primarily due to higher investments in research and development which focus on high-performance computing and AI solutions, including integrating such solutions into our HPE GreenLake edge-to-cloud platform, partially offset by lower variable compensation expense. Storage Fiscal 2022 compared with fiscal 2021 Storage net revenue decreased by $49 million, or 1.0% (increased 0.5% on a constant currency basis) due primarily to unfavorable currency fluctuations and supply chain constraints. Net revenue declined in Storage products moderated by an increase in Storage services. The decline in Storage products was led by declines in HPE 3PAR, as we transition to its next generation of product platforms, such as HPE Alletra and HPE Primera products, and lower traditional storage revenue. The increase in Storage services was led by Zerto Services and higher subscription services as we continue our transition to more services-intensive, and software-rich offerings, partially offset by lower support services revenue. Storage earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue decr eased 1.8 perce ntage points as cost of products and services as a percentage of net revenue remained unchanged and operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue increased. Cost of products and services as a percentage of net revenue remained unchanged as the impact of increased sales of higher- margin Zerto products was moderated by supply chain constraints and related costs, which unfavorably impacted the mix of certain higher-margin products, and unfavorable currency fluctuations. The increase in operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue was due primarily to higher investments in research and development and SG&A, focused on as-a-service offerings, partially offset by lower variable compensation expense. 46 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Intelligent Edge Fiscal 2022 compared with fiscal 2021 Intelligent Edge net revenue increased by $372 million, or 11.3% (increased 14.0% on a constant currency basis) primarily due to a robust demand environment, reflected in a high backlog, which continues to be impacted by supply constraints resulting from a challenging supply chain environment. Net revenue increased in both Intelligent Edge products and services but was moderated by unfavorable currency fluctuations. The increase in product revenue was primarily driven by the wireless local area network ("WLAN") business, partially offset by declines in the Switching business due to material constraints. Growth in services revenue was led by higher attached support services and our as-a-service offerings. Intelligent Edge earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue decreased 0.5 percentage points primarily due to an increase in cost of products and services as a percentage of net revenue partially offset by a decrease in operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue. The increase in cost of product and services as a percentage of net revenue was primarily due to supply chain constraints and related costs and unfavorable currency fluctuations. Operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue decreased primarily due to lower variable compensation expense and an increase in the scale of net revenue. Financial Services Fiscal 2022 compared with fiscal 2021 FS net revenue decreased by $62 million, or 1.8% (increased 1.7% on a constant currency basis) due primarily to unfavorable currency fluctuations, partially offset by higher asset management revenue from pre-owned equipment sales, lease buyouts, and remarketing equipment sales. FS earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue increased 0.4 percentage points due primarily to lower cost of services as a percentage of net revenue and operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue. The decrease to cost of services as a percentage of net revenue resulted primarily from a combination of lower depreciation expense and bad debt. The decrease in operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue was due primarily to lower employee cost driven by lower variable compensation expense. The provision for expected credit losses due to the Company's exit from its Russia and Belarus businesses for the year ended October 31, 2022, was excluded from segment operating results. Financing Volume 47 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Financing volume, which represents the amount of financing provided to customers for equipment and related software and services, including intercompany activity, increased by 1.4% in fiscal 2022 as compared to the prior-year period. The increase was primarily driven by higher financing associated with third-party product sales and related service offerings, partially offset by unfavorable currency fluctuations and lower financing of HPE product sales and related service offerings. Portfolio Assets and Ratios The FS business model is asset intensive and uses certain internal metrics to measure its performance against other financial services companies, including a segment balance sheet that is derived from our internal management reporting system. The accounting policies used to derive FS amounts are substantially the same as those used by the Company. However, intercompany loans and certain accounts that are reflected in the segment balances are eliminated in our Consolidated Financial Statements. The portfolio assets and ratios derived from the segment balance sheets for FS were as follows: (1) Intercompany activity is eliminated in consolidation. (2) Allowance for credit losses for financing receivables includes both the short- and long-term portions. (3) Debt benefiting FS consists of intercompany equity that is treated as debt for segment reporting purposes, intercompany debt, and borrowing- and funding-related activity associated with FS and its subsidiaries. Debt benefiting FS totaled $11.5 billion and $11.9 billion at October 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, and was determined by applying an assumed debt-to-equity ratio, which management believes to be comparable to that of other similar financing companies. FS equity at October 31, 2022 and 2021, was $1.6 billion and $1.7 billion, respectively. As of October 31, 2022 and 2021, FS net cash and cash equivalents were $923 million and $898 million, respectively. Net portfolio assets as of October 31, 2022 decreased 5.8% from October 31, 2021. The decrease generally resulted from unfavorable currency fluctuations, partially offset by new financing volume exceeding portfolio runoff during the period. FS bad debt expense includes charges to general reserves, specific reserves and write-offs for sales-type, direct-financing and operating leases. FS recorded net bad debt expense of $82 million, $95 million and $93 million in fiscal 2022, 2021 and 2020, respectively. As of October 31, 2022, FS experienced a decrease in billed finance receivables compared to October 31, 2021, which included a limited impact to collections from customers as a result of the pandemic, and customers from Russia. We are currently unable to fully predict the extent to which the pandemic and our exit from Russia and Belarus businesses may adversely impact future collections of our receivables. 48 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Corporate Investments and Other Fiscal 2022 compared with fiscal 2021 Corporate Investments and Other net revenue decreased by $101 million, or 7.4% (decreased 0.4% on a constant currency basis) due to unfavorable currency fluctuations. Corporate Investments and Other loss from operations as a percentage of net revenue increased 0.3 percentage points due primarily to lower cost of services as a percentage of net revenue and an increase in operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue. The decrease in cost of services as a percentage of net revenue was due primarily to improved service delivery efficiencies in A & PS and lower variable compensation expense largely offset by a lower mix of higher margin license revenue in Software . The increase in operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue was due primarily to the scale of the net revenue decline partially offset by lower variable compensation expense. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Current Overview We use cash generated by operations as our primary source of liquidity. We believe that internally generated cash flows will be generally sufficient to support our operating businesses, capital expenditures, product development initiatives, acquisitions and disposal activities including legal settlements, restructuring activities, transformation costs, indemnifications, maturing debt, interest payments, and income tax payments, in addition to any future investments, share repurchases, and stockholder dividend payments. We expect to supplement this short-term liquidity, if necessary, by accessing the capital markets, issuing commercial paper, and borrowing under credit facilities made available by various domestic and foreign financial institutions. However, our access to capital markets may be constrained and our cost of borrowing may increase under certain business, market and economic conditions. We anticipate that the funds made available and cash generated from operations along with our access to capital markets will be sufficient to meet our liquidity requirements for at least the next twelve months and for the foreseeable future thereafter. We continue to monitor the severity and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic and its impact on the U.S. and other global economies, the capital markets, consumer behavior, our businesses, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our liquidity is subject to various risks including the risks identified in the section entitled "Risk Factors" in Item 1A and market risks identified in the section entitled "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk" in Item 7A. Our cash balances are held in numerous locations throughout the world, with a substantial amount held outside the U.S as of October 31, 2022. We utilize a variety of planning and financing strategies in an effort to ensure that our worldwide cash is available when and where it is needed. Amounts held outside of the U.S. are generally utilized to support our non-U.S. liquidity needs. Repatriations of amounts held outside the U.S. generally will not be taxable from a U.S. federal tax perspective, but may be subject to state income or foreign withholding tax. Where local restrictions prevent an efficient intercompany transfer of funds, our intent is to keep cash balances outside of the U.S. and to meet liquidity needs through ongoing cash flows, external borrowings, or both. We do not expect restrictions or potential taxes incurred on the repatriation of amounts held outside of the U.S. to have a material effect on our overall liquidity, financial condition or results of operations. In connection with the share repurchase program previously authorized by our Board of Directors, during fiscal 2022, we repurchased and settled an aggregate amount of $0.5 billion. As of October 31, 2022, we had a remaining authorization of $1.4 billion for future share repurchases. For more information on our share repurchase program, refer to Note 15, "Stockholders' Equity", to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II. 49 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) On April 22, 2022, we entered into an amendment with Unisplendour Corporation (“UNIS”) and H3C Technologies Co. Limited (“H3C”) to the Shareholder Agreement previously entered into between the parties as of May 1, 2016. The amendment extended the Shareholder Agreement to October 31, 2022, the latest date upon which we could put to UNIS all or part of the H3C shares held by us, at a price of 15.0 times the last twelve months net income of H3C. On October 28, 2022, we entered into a subsequent amendment to the aforementioned Shareholder Agreement to further extend to December 31, 2022, the latest date upon which we may put to UNIS all or part of the H3C shares held by us, at a price of 15.0 times the last twelve months (measured from April 30, 2022) net income of H3C. Liquidity Our cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, total debt and available borrowing resources were as follows: (1) The maximum aggregate borrowing amount of the commercial paper programs and revolving credit facility is $5.75 billion. The tables below represent the way in which management reviews cash flows: Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities decrease d by $1.3 billion for fiscal 2022, as compared to fiscal 2021. The decrease was primarily due to $2.2 billion of after-tax cash resulting from a litigation judgment in the prior-year period, lower variable compensation accruals, and favorable hedging positions moderated by improved working capital and a decrease in financing receivables, as compared to the prior-year period. Our working capital metrics and cash conversion impacts were as follows: The cash conversion cycle is the sum of DSO and DOS less DPO. Items which may cause the cash conversion cycle in a particular period to differ include, but are not limited to, changes in business mix, changes in payment terms (including extended payment terms to customers or from suppliers), early or late invoice payments from customers or to suppliers, the 50 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) extent of receivables factoring, seasonal trends, the timing of sales and inventory purchases within the period, the impact of commodity costs and acquisition activity. DSO measures the average number of days our receivables are outstanding. DSO is calculated by dividing ending accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts, by a 90-day average of net revenue. For the three-month period ending October 31, 2022, as compared to the corresponding prior-year period, DSO decreased by 2 days due primarily to favorable billings linearity, higher early collections and receivables factoring, partially offset by extended payment terms. DOS measures the average number of days from procurement to sale of our product. DOS is calculated by dividing ending inventory by a 90-day average of cost of goods sold. For the three-month period ending October 31, 2022, as compared to the corresponding prior-year period, DOS in creased by 6 days due primarily to higher levels of inventory resulting from a combination of supply chain constraints, positioning of inventory to fulfill planned future shipments, and strategic purchases of certain key components. DPO measures the average number of days our accounts payable balances are outstanding. DPO is calculated by dividing ending accounts payable by a 90-day average of cost of goods sold. For the three-month period ending October 31, 2022, as compared to the corresponding prior-year period, DPO increased by 21 days due primarily to proactive measures we have taken to secure key materials for future shipments and a larger proportion of vendors with longer payment terms. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities decreased by $0.7 billion in fiscal 2022, as compared to fiscal 2021. The change was primarily due to a combinaton of lower payments in connection with business acquisitions of $0.5 billion, lower cash utilized in net financial collateral activities of $0.3 billion and higher proceeds from the sale of investments, net of purchases of $0.3 billion, partially offset by higher cash utilized for investment in property, plant and equipment, net of sales proceeds of $0.4 billion, as compared to the prior-year period. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities decreased by $1.6 billion in fiscal 2022, as compared to fiscal 2021. The decrease was due primarily to lower net debt repayments of $1.9 billion and higher cash utilized for share repurchases of $0.3 billion, as compared to the prior-year period. Free Cash Flow Free cash flow represents cash flow from operations, excluding the impact of $2.2 billion in proceeds received in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021 from a one-time Itanium litigation judgment, less net capital expenditures (investments in property, plant and equipment (“PP&E”) less proceeds from the sale of PP&E), and adjusted for the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash. Free cash flow increased by $0.2 billion in fiscal 2022, as compared to fiscal 2021, due to higher cash generated from operating activities (excluding a one-time litigation judgment) led by improved net working capital management, moderated by increased cash used for investments in property, plant and equipment, net of sales proceeds. 51 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Our improved free cash flow and cash position help to ensure we have ample liquidity to run operations, continuing to invest in our business to drive growth and return capital to shareholders. For more information on the impact from operating assets and liabilities to cash flows, see Note 7, "Balance Sheet Details", to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II. Capital Resources Debt Levels We maintain debt levels that we establish through consideration of a number of factors, including cash flow expectations, cash requirements for operations, investment plans (including acquisitions), share repurchase activities, our cost of capital, and targeted capital structure. We maintain a revolving credit facility and two commercial paper programs, "the Parent Programs", and a wholly-owned subsidiary maintains a third program. In December 2021, we terminated our prior senior unsecured revolving credit facility and entered into a new senior unsecured revolving credit facility with an aggregate commitment of $4.75 billion for a period of five years. There have been no changes to our commercial paper programs since October 31, 2021. In December 2020, we filed a shelf registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission that allows us to sell, at any time and from time to time, in one or more offerings, debt securities, preferred stock, common stock, warrants, depository shares, purchase contracts, guarantees or units consisting of any of these securities. As of October 31, 2022 and 2021, no borrowings were outstanding under our revolving credit facility. As of October 31, 2022 and 2021, no borrowings were outstanding under the Parent Programs, and $542 million and $705 million, respectively, were outstanding under our subsidiary’s program. During fiscal 2022, we issued $3.2 billion and repaid $3.2 billion of commercial paper. Our weighted-average interest rate reflects the average effective rate on our borrowings prevailing during the period and reflects the impact of interest rate swaps. For more information on our interest rate swaps, see Note 13, "Financial Instruments", to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II. For more information on our available borrowing resources and the impact of operating assets and liabilities to cash flows, see Note 14, "Borrowings", and Note 7, "Balance Sheet Details", respectively, to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II. Cash Requirements and Commitments Long-term debt and interest payments on debt As of October 31, 2022, future principal payment obligations on our long-term debt including asset-backed debt securities totaled $11.9 billion, of which $3.9 billion is due within one year. As of October 31, 2022, our finance lease obligations, including interest, was $55 million, of which $7 million is to be due within one year. For more information on our debt, see Note 14, "Borrowings", to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II. As of October 31, 2022, future interest payments relating to our long-term debt is estimated to be approximately $3.6 billion, of which $0.5 billion is expected to be due within one year. We use interest rate swaps to mitigate the exposure of our fixed rate debt to changes in fair value resulting from changes in interest rates, or hedge the variability of cash flows in the interest payments associated with our variable-rate debt. The impact of our outstanding interest rate swaps as of October 31, 2022 was factored into the calculation of the future interest payments on long-term debt. 52 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Operating lease obligations We enter into various leases as a lessee for assets including office buildings, data centers, vehicles, and aviation. As of October 31, 2022, operating lease obligations, net of sublease rental income totaled $1.1 billion, of which $171 million is due within one year. These amounts included uncommenced operating leases as of October 31, 2022, and did not reflect imputed interest adjustments. For more information on our leases, see Note 8, "Accounting for Leases as a Lessee", to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II. Unconditional purchase obligations Our unconditional purchase obligations are related principally to inventory purchases, software maintenance and support services and other items. Unconditional purchase obligations exclude agreements that are cancellable without penalty. As of October 31, 2022, unconditional purchase obligations totaled $1.6 billion, of which $449 million is due within one year. For more information on our unconditional purchase obligations, see Note 19, "Commitments", to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II. Retirement Benefit Plan Funding In fiscal 2023, we anticipate making contributions of $170 million to our non-U.S. pension plans. Our policy is to fund pension plans to meet at least the minimum contribution requirements, as established by various authorities including local government and taxing authorities. Expected contributions and payments to our pension and post-retirement benefit plans are not considered as contractual obligations because they do not represent contractual cash outflows, as they are dependent on numerous factors which may result in a wide range of outcomes. For more information on our retirement and post-retirement benefit plans, see Note 4, "Retirement and Post-Retirement Benefit Plans", to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II. Restructuring Plans As of October 31, 2022, we expect future cash payments of approximately $460 million in connection with our approved restructuring plans, which includes $330 million expected to be paid in fiscal 2023 and $130 million expected to be paid thereafter. Payments for restructuring activities are not considered as contractual obligations, because they do not represent contractual cash outflows and there is uncertainty as to the timing of these payments. For more information on our restructuring activities, see Note 3, "Transformation Programs", to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II. Uncertain Tax Positions As of October 31, 2022, we had approximately $297 million of recorded liabilities and related interest and penalties pertaining to uncertain tax positions. These liabilities and related interest and penalties include $29 million expected to be paid within one year. For the remaining amount, we are unable to make a reasonable estimate as to when cash settlement with the tax authorities might occur due to the uncertainties related to these tax matters. Payments of these obligations would result from settlements with taxing authorities. For more information on our uncertain tax positions, see Note 6, "Taxes on Earnings", to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As part of our ongoing business, we have not participated in transactions that generate material relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. We have third-party revolving short-term financing arrangements intended to facilitate the working capital requirements of certain customers. For more information on our third-party revolving short-term financing arrangements, see Note 7, "Balance Sheet Details", to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II. 53 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) GAAP TO NON-GAAP RECONCILIATIONS The following tables provide a reconciliation of each non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure for the periods presented: Reconciliation of GAAP gross profit and gross profit margin to non-GAAP gross profit and gross profit margin. Reconciliation of GAAP earnings from operations and operating profit margin to non-GAAP earnings from operations and operating profit margin. 54 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Reconciliation of GAAP net earnings and diluted net earnings per share to non-GAAP net earnings and diluted net earnings per share. (1) During fiscal year ended 2022, the Company recorded total pre-tax charges of $161 million, primarily related to the Company's exit from its Russia and Belarus businesses. Additionally, in fiscal 2022, Disaster charges included a recovery of $2 million related to COVID-19. Refer to Note 1, "Overview and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II, for further information. (2) Represents the amortization of basis difference adjustments related to the H3C divestiture. Reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities to free cash flow. 55 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Non-GAAP financial measures The non-GAAP financial measures presented are net revenue on a constant currency basis, non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP gross profit margin, non-GAAP earnings from operations, non-GAAP operating profit margin (non-GAAP earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue), non-GAAP net earnings, non-GAAP diluted net earnings per share, and free cash flow. These non-GAAP financial measures are used by management for purposes of evaluating our historical and prospective financial performance, as well as evaluating our performance relative to our competitors. These non-GAAP financial measures are not computed in accordance with, or as an alternative to, generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to net revenue on a constant currency basis is net revenue. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP gross profit is gross profit. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP gross profit margin is gross profit margin. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP earnings from operations is earnings from operations. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP operating profit margin (non-GAAP earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue) is operating profit margin (earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue). The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP net earnings is net earnings. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP diluted net earnings per share is diluted net earnings per share. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to free cash flow is cash flow from operations. Net revenue on a constant currency basis assumes no change in the foreign exchange rate from the prior-year period. Non-GAAP gross profit and non-GAAP gross profit margin is defined to exclude charges related to the amortization of initial direct costs, stock-based compensation expense and disaster charges. Non-GAAP earnings from operations and non-GAAP operating profit margin (non-GAAP earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue) consist of earnings from operations excluding any charges related to the amortization of initial direct costs, amortization of intangible assets, impairment of goodwill, transformation costs, disaster charges, stock-based compensation expense and acquisition, disposition and other related charges. Non-GAAP net earnings and non-GAAP diluted net earnings per share consist of net earnings or diluted net earnings per share excluding those same charges, as well as items such as tax indemnification and related adjustments, non-service net periodic benefit credit, litigation judgment, early debt redemption costs, earnings from equity interests, certain income tax valuation allowances and separation taxes, the impact of tax reform, structural rate adjustment and excess tax benefit from stock-based compensation. In addition, non-GAAP net earnings and non-GAAP diluted net earnings per share are adjusted by the amount of additional taxes or tax benefits associated with each non-GAAP item. We believe that excluding the items mentioned above from these non-GAAP financial measures allows management to better understand our consolidated financial performance in relation to the operating results of our segments. Management believes excluding these items facilitates a more meaningful evaluation of our current operating performance in comparison to our peers. These non-GAAP financial measures have limitations as analytical tools, and these measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. Some of the limitations in relying on these non-GAAP financial measures are that they can have a material impact on the equivalent GAAP earnings measures and cash flows, they may be calculated differently by other companies and may not reflect the full economic effect of the loss in value of certain assets. We compensate for these limitations on the use of non-GAAP financial measures by relying primarily on our GAAP results and using non-GAAP financial measures only as a supplement. We also provide a reconciliation of each non-GAAP financial measure to its most directly comparable GAAP measure. We believe that providing net revenue on a constant currency basis, non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP gross profit margin, non-GAAP earnings from operations, non-GAAP operating profit margin, non-GAAP net earnings, non-GAAP diluted net earnings per share and free cash flow, in addition to the related GAAP measures provides greater transparency to the information used in our financial and operational decision making and allows the reader of our Consolidated Financial Statements to see our financial results “through the eyes” of management. 56