********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

You should carefully consider the following risks and other information in this Form 10-K in evaluating Hewlett Packard Enterprise and its common stock. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. The following risk factors should be read in conjunction with Part II, Item 7, “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation” and the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” of this Form 10-K. Business and Operational Risks If we cannot successfully execute our go-to-market strategy, including our ongoing transition to an aaS consumption-based business model, our business, operating results, and financial performance may suffer. Our long-term strategy is focused on leveraging our portfolio of hardware, software, and services as we deliver global edge-to-cloud platform as-a-service to help customers accelerate outcomes by unlocking value from all of their data, everywhere. We continue our transition to an aaS company, to provide our entire portfolio through a range of subscription and consumption-based, pay-per-use, and aaS offerings. We will also continue to provide our hardware and software in a capital expenditure and license-based model, giving our customers choices in consuming HPE products and services. To successfully execute this strategy and transition, we must continue to improve cost structure, align sales coverage with strategic goals, improve channel execution and strengthen our capabilities in our areas of strategic focus, while continuing to pursue new product innovation that builds on our strategic capabilities in areas such as edge computing, hybrid cloud, artificial intelligence, data center networking, network security and high-performance compute. We must make sufficient long-term investments in strategic growth areas, such as developing, obtaining, and protecting appropriate intellectual property and committing significant R&D and other resources before knowing whether our projections will reasonably reflect customer demand for our solutions. Should such efforts fail to produce actionable insights, or our offerings not perform as designed or promised, we may be unable to manage or complete the transition successfully or in a timely manner, not realize all of the anticipated benefits of the transition (even if we complete it), and our business results and financial condition may be adversely affected.  Furthermore, such incremental capital requirements may negatively impact cash flows in the near term, and may require us to dedicate additional resources, including sales and marketing costs. The process of improving our HPE GreenLake edge-to-cloud platform’s aaS solutions and enhancing existing hardware, software, and cloud-based solutions is complex, costly, and uncertain, and any failure by us to anticipate customers’ changing needs and emerging technological trends accurately, to invest sufficiently in strategic growth areas, or to otherwise successfully execute this strategy could significantly harm our market share, results of operations, and financial performance. Having developed a cloud platform product in HPE GreenLake, we must be able to continue to scale quickly, while also managing costs and preserving margins, which means accurately forecasting volumes, mixes of products, and configurations that meet customer requirements, which we may not succeed at doing. Our HPE GreenLake edge-to-cloud platform faces competition from peer companies with their own cloud platform offerings, and any delay in the development, production, or marketing of a new product, service or solution, including new features of the HPE GreenLake edge-to-cloud platform, could result in our offerings being late to reach the market, which could further harm our competitive position. Furthermore, we anticipate needing to continually adapt our go-to-market structure with new sales and marketing approaches, to better align with the software consumption-based business model. Changing our go-to-market structure may affect employee compensation models and ultimately our ability to retain employees. There is no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement these adjustments in a timely or cost-effective manner, or that we will be able to realize all or any of the expected benefits from them. These solutions generally are multiyear agreements, which result in recurring revenue streams over the term of the arrangement. As customer demand for our software consumption-based offerings increases, we will experience differences in the timing of revenue recognition between our traditional offerings (for which revenue is generally recognized at the time of delivery) and our aaS offerings (for which revenue is generally recognized ratably over the term of the arrangement). As such, our financial results and growth depend, in part, on customers continuing to purchase our services and solutions over the contract life on the agreed terms. Additionally, transition to this business model also means that our historical results, especially those from before the transition, may not be indicative of future results, which may adversely affect our ability to accurately forecast our future operating results. Further, these contracts allow customers to take actions, such as requesting rate reductions, reducing the use of our services and solutions or terminating a contract early, which may adversely affect our recurring revenue and profitability. Further, our software consumption offerings could subject us to increased risk of liability related to the provision of services as well as operational, technical, legal or other costs. We depend on third-party suppliers, and our financial results could suffer if we fail to manage our supplier relationships properly. Our operations depend on our ability to anticipate our needs for components, products, and services, as well as our suppliers’ abilities to deliver sufficient quantities of quality components, products, and services at reasonable prices and in time for us to meet critical schedules for the delivery of our own products and services. Given the wide variety of solutions that we 17 offer, the large and diverse distribution of our suppliers and contract manufacturers, and the long lead times required to manufacture, assemble, and deliver certain solutions, problems have, from time to time in the past, arisen, and could in the future arise, in production, planning, and inventory management that could harm our business. In addition, our ongoing efforts to optimize the efficiency of our supply chain could cause supply disruptions and be more expensive, time-consuming, and resource-intensive than expected. Furthermore, certain of our suppliers have at times decided, and may in the future decide, to discontinue conducting business with us. Other supplier problems that we have faced, and could again face in the future, include component shortages, excess supply, and contractual, relational, and labor risks, each of which is described below. • Component shortages . We have been experiencing delays and shortages of certain components as a result of strong demand and capacity constraints caused by insufficient capacity to meet unanticipated demand from emerging markets, and other problems experienced by suppliers or problems faced during the transition to new suppliers. Though we have seen easing of industry-wide supply constraints, we expect discreet constraints to continue, the duration of which remains uncertain. In the past, we have experienced shortages or delays, which led to higher prices of certain components and exposure to quality issues and delivery delays, which may occur again in the future. We may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices, of acceptable quality, or at all, to build products or provide services in a timely manner in the quantities needed or according to our specifications. Accordingly, our business and financial performance could suffer from a loss of time-sensitive sales, additional freight costs incurred, or the inability to pass on price increases to our customers. If we cannot adequately address supply issues, we may have to reengineer some product or service offerings, which could result in further costs and delays. • Excess supply . In order to secure components for our products or services, at times we may make advance payments to suppliers or enter into long term agreements, non-cancellable commitments, or other inventory management arrangements with vendors. In addition, we may purchase components strategically in advance of demand to take advantage of favorable pricing or to address concerns about the availability of future components. If we fail to anticipate customer demand properly, a temporary oversupply could result in excess or obsolete components, which has at times adversely impacted and could in the future adversely impact our business and financial performance. • Contractual terms . As a result of binding long-term price or purchase commitments with vendors, we may be obligated to purchase components or services at prices that are higher than those available in the current market and be limited in our ability to respond to changing market conditions. If we commit to purchasing components or services for prices in excess of the then-current market price, we may be at a disadvantage to competitors who have access to components or services at lower prices, our gross margin could suffer, and we could incur charges relating to inventory obsolescence. • Contingent workers . We also rely on third-party suppliers for the provision of contingent workers, and our failure to manage our use of such workers effectively could adversely affect our results of operations. We have been exposed to various legal claims relating to the status of contingent workers in the past and could face similar claims in the future. We may be subject to shortages, oversupply or fixed contractual terms relating to contingent workers. Our ability to manage the size and cost of our contingent workforce may be subject to additional constraints imposed by local laws. • Single-source suppliers . We obtain certain components from single-source suppliers due to technology, availability, price, quality, scale, or customization needs. Certain of such suppliers have, in the past decided, and may in the future decide, to discontinue manufacturing components used in our products, which may cause us to discontinue certain products, incur additional costs to redesign our products so as not to incorporate such discontinued components, or incur time and expense to find replacement suppliers. Replacing a single-source supplier has at times delayed, and could delay, production of some products as replacement suppliers may initially be unable to meet demand or be subject to other output limitations. For some components, such as customized components, alternative sources either may not exist or may be unable to produce the quantities of those components necessary to satisfy our production requirements. In addition, we sometimes purchase components from single-source suppliers under short-term agreements that contain favorable pricing and other terms but that may be unilaterally modified or terminated by the supplier with limited notice and with little or no penalty. The performance of such single-source suppliers under those agreements (and the renewal or extension of those agreements upon similar terms) may affect the quality, quantity, and price of our components. The loss of a single-source supplier, the deterioration of our relationship with a single-source supplier, or any unilateral modification to the contractual terms under which we are supplied components by a single-source supplier could adversely affect our business and financial performance. System security risks, data protection incidents, cyberattacks and systems integration issues could disrupt our internal operations or IT services provided to customers, and any such disruption could reduce our revenue, increase our expenses, damage our reputation, and adversely affect our stock price. As a leading technology firm, we are exposed to attacks from criminals, nation state actors, malicious insiders, and activist hackers (collectively, “malicious parties”) who have at times been able to circumvent or bypass our cyber security measures. Although some of these attacks have caused disruptions or exposure of information, so far, these attacks have not resulted in material impacts to HPE, nor have any of HPE’s consumers, customers, or employees informed HPE that these 18 attacks resulted in material harm to them. It is possible that future attacks may result in material misappropriation, system disruptions or shutdowns, malicious alteration, or destruction of our confidential or personal information or that of third parties. Further, there has been an increase in the frequency and sophistication of such attacks, and we expect these activities to continue to increase. Malicious parties also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, ransomware, and other malicious software programs that attack our products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products, including within our cloud-based environments and offerings. Further, cyber-attacks or incidents have in the past gone, and could in the future go, undetected in our environments for a period of time. Given our broad and diverse network environment, resource limitations, and operational constraints, we have in the past failed, and may in the future fail, to patch certain security vulnerabilities in time to prevent successful disruptions of our infrastructure or expose information. Malicious parties may compromise our manufacturing supply chain and the systems or networks of other third parties on whom we rely, and as such, may embed malicious software or hardware in our products, thereby compromising our customers. Geopolitical tensions or conflicts, such as the ongoing conflicts between Russia and Ukraine or Israel and Hamas, may create a heightened risk of such cyberattacks or exacerbate system vulnerabilities, considering our continued hybrid work environment. In addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including flaws that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the system. The costs associated with cybersecurity tools and infrastructure and fierce competition for scarce cybersecurity and IT talent have at times limited, and may in the future limit, our ability to efficiently identify, eliminate, or remediate cyber or other security vulnerabilities or problems or enact changes to minimize the attack surface of our network. Furthermore, our efforts to address these problems may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, cessation of service, and loss of existing or potential customers that may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions. Additional impacts from cybersecurity incidents could include remediation costs to our customers, suppliers, or distributors, such as liability for stolen assets or information, repairs of system damage, and incentives for continued business; lost revenue resulting from the unauthorized use of proprietary information or the failure to retain or attract business partners following an incident; increased insurance premiums; and damage to our competitiveness, stock price, and long-term shareholder value. We manage and store various proprietary information, intellectual property, and sensitive or confidential data relating to our business. In addition, our business may process, store, and transmit customer data, including commercially sensitive and personal data, subject to the European General Data Protection Regulation, the California Consumer Privacy Act, and other privacy laws and regulations related to the handling of personal data. With our business increasingly providing aaS offerings, malicious parties could target such services, potentially resulting in an increased risk of compromise of customer data and regulatory exposure. Incidents involving our cyber or physical security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure, or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information, intellectual property, or sensitive, confidential, or personal data about us, our clients, or our customers, including the potential loss or disclosure of such data as a result of fraud, trickery, or other forms of deception, could expose us, our customers, or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information; result in regulatory fines, litigation, and potential liability for us; damage our brand and reputation; or otherwise harm our business. We also could lose existing or potential customers of services or other IT solutions or incur significant expenses in connection with our customers’ system failures or any actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products and services. In addition, the cost and operational consequences of managing an incident and implementing further data protection measures could be significant. Additionally, we have at times experienced, and may experience, other security issues that are not results of any action or attack from malicious parties, whether due to employee or insider error or malfeasance, system errors or vulnerabilities in our or other parties’ systems. Portions of our IT infrastructure also have experienced, and may experience, interruptions, delays, or cessations of service or produce errors in connection with systems integration or migration work that takes place from time to time. We may not be successful in implementing new systems and transitioning data, which could cause business disruptions and be more expensive, time-consuming, disruptive, and resource intensive. Furthermore, our data centers depend on predictable and reliable energy and networking capabilities, the cost or availability of which could be adversely affected or disrupted by a variety of factors, including but not limited to the effects of climate change. Such disruptions could adversely impact our ability to fulfill orders and respond to customer requests and interrupt other processes. Delayed sales, lower margins, or lost customers resulting from these events could reduce our revenue, increase our expenses, and adversely affect our reputation and stock price. While we seek to identify and remediate vulnerabilities in our products, services, IT systems, controls, and software that could be exploited by any malicious parties, we may not be aware of all such vulnerabilities, and we have at times failed, and may fail, to anticipate, detect, identify, and/or remediate such vulnerabilities before they are exploited. There is no guarantee that a series of issues may not be determined to be material in the aggregate at a future date even if they may not be material individually at the time of their occurrence. Business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. Our worldwide operations and supply chain could be disrupted by natural or human-induced disasters including, but not limited to, earthquakes; tsunamis; floods; hurricanes, cyclones or typhoons; fires; other extreme weather conditions; power or 19 water shortages; telecommunications failures; materials scarcity and price volatility; terrorist acts, civil unrest, conflicts or wars; and health epidemics or pandemics. The impacts and frequency of any of the above could be further exacerbated by climate change, particularly in countries where we operate that have limited infrastructure and disaster recovery resources. While we are predominantly self-insured to mitigate the impact of most catastrophic events, the occurrence of business disruptions could, among other impacts, harm our revenue, profitability, and financial condition; adversely affect our competitive position; increase our costs and expenses; make it difficult or impossible to provide our offerings to our customers or to receive components from our suppliers; create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain; or require substantial expenditures and recovery time in order to fully resume operations. Public health crises, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, and the measures taken in response to such events have in the past negatively impacted, and may again in the future negatively impact, our operations and workforce, as well as those of our partners, customers and suppliers. Additionally, concerns over the economic impact of such events have, from time to time, caused increased volatility in financial and other capital markets, adversely impacting our stock price, our ability to access the capital markets, and our ability to fund liquidity needs, and may do so again in the future. The negative impacts of any such events on business operations and demand for our offerings will depend on future developments and actions taken in response to such events, which may be outside our control, highly uncertain, and cannot be predicted at this time. The manufacture of product components, the final assembly of our products and other critical operations are concentrated in certain geographic locations, including the United States, Puerto Rico, Czech Republic, Mexico, China, Malaysia, Taiwan, South Korea, and Singapore. We also rely on major logistics hubs, which are strategically located near manufacturing facilities in the major regions and in proximity to HPE’s distribution channels and customers. Other critical business operations and some of our suppliers are located in California and Asia, near major earthquake faults known for seismic activity. Our operations could be adversely affected if manufacturing, logistics, or other operations in these locations are disrupted for any reason, including those enumerated above, as they have been in the past by natural disasters and public health issues in the United States, Puerto Rico, and China.  To the extent such disruptions adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, and stock price, they may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks described in this Item 1A of Part I of this Form 10-K. Any failure by us to identify, manage and complete acquisitions and subsequent integrations, divestitures and other significant transactions successfully could harm our financial results, business and prospects. As part of our strategy, we may acquire businesses, divest businesses or assets, enter into strategic alliances and joint ventures, and make investments to further our business (collectively, “business combination and investment transactions”), and also handle any post-closing issues, such as integration. For example, among other acquisitions and subsequent integrations, in June 2023, we acquired Athonet, a private cellular network technology provider, in May 2023, we acquired OpsRamp, Inc., an IT operations management company, in March 2023, we acquired Axis Security, a cloud security provider, in September 2020, we acquired Silver Peak Systems, Inc., an SD-WAN industry leader and in September 2019, we acquired Cray Inc., a global supercomputer leader. In April 2017 and September 2017, we spun off our Enterprise Services and Software businesses, respectively. See also the risk factors below under the heading “Risks Related to Prior Separations.” Risks associated with business combination and investment transactions include the following, any of which could adversely affect our financial results, including our effective tax rate: • We may not successfully combine product or service offerings or fully realize all of the anticipated benefits of any particular business combination and investment transaction, which may result in (1) failure to retain employees, customers, distributors, and suppliers; (2) increase in unanticipated delays or failure to meet contractual obligations which may cause financial results to differ from expectations; and (3) significant increase in costs and expenses, including those related to severance pay, early retirement costs, employee benefit costs, charges from the elimination of duplicative facilities and contracts, inventory adjustments, assumed litigation and other liabilities, legal, accounting and financial advisory fees, and required payments to executive officers and key employees under retention plans. • Our ability to conduct due diligence with respect to business combination and investment transactions, and our ability to evaluate the results of such due diligence, is dependent upon the veracity and completeness of statements and disclosures made or actions taken by third parties or their representatives. We may fail to identify significant issues with the acquired company’s product quality, financial disclosures, accounting practices or internal control deficiencies or all of the factors necessary to estimate reasonably accurate costs, timing and other matters. • In order to complete a business combination and investment transaction, we may issue common stock, potentially creating dilution for our existing stockholders or we may enter into financing arrangements, which could affect our liquidity and financial condition. • For an acquisition or other combination, the acquisition partner may have differing or inadequate cybersecurity and data protection controls, which could impact our exposure to data security incidents and potentially increase anticipated costs or time to integrate the business. 20 • Business combination and investment transactions may lead to litigation, which could impact our financial condition and results of operations. • We have incurred and will incur additional depreciation and amortization expense over the useful lives of certain assets acquired in connection with business combination and investment transactions and, to the extent that the value of goodwill or intangible assets acquired in connection with a business combination and investment transaction becomes impaired, we may be required to incur additional material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. • For a divestiture, we may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely manner, or we may dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less desirable than we had anticipated. • The impact of divestitures on our revenue growth may be larger than projected, as we may experience greater dis-synergies than expected. If we do not satisfy pre-closing conditions and necessary regulatory and governmental approvals on acceptable terms, it may prevent us from completing the transaction. Dispositions may also involve continued financial involvement in the divested business, such as through continuing equity ownership, guarantees, indemnities or other financial obligations. Under these arrangements, performance by the divested businesses or other conditions outside of our control could affect our future financial results. • Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it difficult or discourage an acquisition of Hewlett Packard Enterprise if our Board of Directors deems it to be undesirable. Provisions such as indemnification, meeting requirements, and blank check stock authorizations could deter or delay hostile takeovers, proxy contests, or changes in control or management of Hewlett Packard Enterprise. Management’s attention or other resources may be diverted during business combination and investment transactions and further impacted if we fail to successfully complete or integrate business combination and investment transactions that further our strategic objectives. If we fail to manage the distribution of our products and services properly, our business and financial performance could suffer. We use a variety of distribution methods to sell our products and services around the world, including both direct and indirect sales to end-users. Successfully managing the interaction of our direct and indirect channel efforts to reach various potential customer segments for our products and services is a complex process. Moreover, since each distribution method has distinct risks and gross margins, our failure to implement the most advantageous balance in the delivery model for our products and services could adversely affect our revenue and gross margins and therefore our profitability. Our financial results could be materially adversely affected due to distribution channel conflicts or if the financial conditions of our channel partners were to weaken. Our results of operations may be adversely affected by any conflicts that might arise between our various distribution channels or the loss or deterioration of any alliance or distribution arrangement. Moreover, some of our wholesale distributors may have insufficient financial resources and may not be able to withstand changes in business conditions, including economic weakness, industry consolidation, and market trends. Considerable trade receivables that are not covered by collateral or credit insurance are outstanding with our distribution channel partners. Revenue from indirect sales could suffer, and we could experience disruptions in distribution, if our distributors’ financial conditions, abilities to borrow funds in the credit markets or operations weaken. Our inventory management is complex, as we continue to sell a significant mix of products through distributors. We must manage both owned and channel inventory effectively, particularly with respect to sales to distributors, which involves forecasting demand and pricing challenges. Distributors have in the past adjusted orders during periods of product shortages, and may do so in the future, in addition to cancelling orders if their inventory is too high or delaying orders in anticipation of new products. Distributors also may adjust their orders in response to the supply of our products and the products of our competitors and seasonal fluctuations in end-user demand. Our reliance upon indirect distribution methods may reduce our visibility into demand and pricing trends and issues, and therefore make forecasting more difficult. If we have excess or obsolete inventory, we may have to reduce our prices and write down inventory. Moreover, our use of indirect distribution channels may limit our willingness or ability to adjust prices quickly and otherwise to respond to pricing changes. We also may have limited ability to estimate future product rebate redemptions in order to price our products effectively. In order to be successful, we must attract, retain, train, motivate, develop, and transition key employees, and failure to do so could seriously harm us. In order to be successful, we must attract, retain, train, motivate, develop, and transition qualified executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical, development, sales, marketing, and IT support positions. In order to attract and retain executives and other key employees in a competitive marketplace, we must provide a competitive compensation package, including cash and equity-based compensation. These are particularly important considering our recent segment realignment, as we shift our growth strategy to capture the market opportunity presented by hybrid cloud. Certain equity-based incentive awards for certain executives contain conditions relating to our stock price performance and our long- 21 term financial performance that make the future value of those awards uncertain. If the anticipated value of such equity-based incentive awards does not materialize, if our equity-based compensation otherwise ceases to be viewed as a valuable benefit, if our total compensation package is not viewed as being competitive, or if we do not obtain the stockholder approval needed to continue granting equity-based incentive awards in the amounts we believe are necessary, our ability to attract, retain, and motivate executives and key employees could be weakened. Our failure to successfully hire executives and key employees or the loss of any executives and key employees could have a significant impact on our operations and our ability to execute our strategy. Further, changes in our management team may be disruptive to our business, and any failure to successfully transition and assimilate key new hires or promoted employees could adversely affect our business and results of operations. As competition for highly skilled employees in our industry has grown increasingly intense, we have experienced, and may in the future experience, higher than anticipated levels of employee attrition, which has resulted in increased costs to hire new employees with the desired skills and may do so again in the future. In addition, significant or prolonged turnover or revised hiring priorities may negatively impact our operations and culture, as well as our ability to successfully maintain our processes and procedures, including due to the loss of historical, technical, and other expertise.  These risks to attracting and retaining the necessary talent may be exacerbated by recent labor constraints and inflationary pressures on employee wages and benefits. Failure to meet ESG expectations or standards or achieve our ESG goals could adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition, or stock price. There has been an increased focus from regulators and stakeholders on ESG matters. Given our commitment to ESG, we actively manage these issues and have established and publicly announced certain goals, commitments, and targets which we may refine or even expand further in the future. These goals, commitments, and targets reflect our current plans and aspirations, are based on available data and estimates, and are not guarantees that we will be able to achieve them. Moreover, actions or statements that we may take based on expectations, assumptions, or third-party information that we currently believe to be reasonable may subsequently be determined to be erroneous or be subject to misinterpretation. Initiatives to address such ESG issues may be costly and may not have the desired effect. Evolving stakeholder expectations and our efforts and ability to manage these issues and accomplish our goals, commitments, and targets present numerous operational, regulatory, reputational, financial, legal, and other risks, any of which may be outside of our control or could have adverse impacts on our business, including on our stock price. Further, there is uncertainty around the accounting standards and climate-related disclosures associated with emerging laws and reporting requirements and the related costs to comply with the emerging regulations. Our failure or perceived failure to achieve our ESG goals, maintain ESG practices, or comply with emerging ESG regulations that meet evolving regulatory or stakeholder expectations could harm our reputation, adversely impact our ability to attract and retain customers and talent, and expose us to increased scrutiny from the investment community and enforcement authorities. Our reputation also may be harmed by the perceptions that our stakeholders have about our action or inaction on certain ESG-related issues, or because they may disagree with our goals and initiatives. Damage to our reputation and loss of brand equity may reduce demand for our products and services and thus have an adverse effect on our future financial performance, as well as require additional resources to rebuild our reputation. Issues in the development and use of artificial intelligence may result in reputational harm or liability. We currently incorporate AI capabilities into certain of our offerings, and our research into and continued development of such capabilities remain ongoing. As with many innovations, AI presents risks, challenges, and unintended consequences that could affect its adoption, and therefore our business. AI algorithms and training methodologies may be flawed. Ineffective or inadequate AI development or deployment practices by us or others could result in incidents that impair the acceptance of AI solutions or cause harm to individuals or society. These deficiencies and other failures of AI systems could subject us to competitive harm, regulatory action, legal liability, and brand or reputational harm. If we enable or offer AI solutions that are controversial because of their impact on human rights, privacy, employment, or other social, economic, or political issues, we may experience competitive, brand, or reputational harm or legal and/or regulatory action. Further, incorporating AI gives rise to litigation risk and risk of non-compliance and unknown cost of compliance, as AI is an emerging technology for which the legal and regulatory landscape is not fully developed (including potential liability for breaching intellectual property or privacy rights or laws). While new AI initiatives, laws, and regulations are emerging and evolving, what they ultimately will look like remains uncertain, and our obligation to comply with them could entail significant costs, negatively affect our business, or entirely limit our ability to incorporate certain AI capabilities into our offerings. Additionally, leveraging AI capabilities to potentially improve internal functions and operations presents further risks and challenges. While we aim to use AI ethically and attempt to identify and mitigate ethical or legal issues presented by its use, we may be unsuccessful in identifying or resolving issues before they arise. The use of AI to support business operations carries inherent risks related to data privacy and security, such as intended, unintended, or inadvertent transmission of proprietary or sensitive information, as well as challenges related to implementing and maintaining AI tools, such as developing and maintaining appropriate datasets for such support. Further, dependence on AI without adequate safeguards to make certain 22 business decisions may introduce additional operational vulnerabilities by impacting our relationships with customers, partners, and suppliers; by producing inaccurate outcomes based on flaws in the underlying data; or other unintended results. Risks arising from climate change and the transition to a lower-carbon economy may impact our business Climate change serves as a risk multiplier that could increase both the frequency and severity of natural disasters that may affect our worldwide business operations and those of suppliers and customers. Our corporate headquarters is located in Spring, Texas, which suffers from floods, hurricanes, and other extreme weather, and a portion of our research and development activities are located in California, which suffers from drought conditions and catastrophic wildfires, each affecting the health and safety of our employees. In California, to mitigate wildfire risk, electric utilities have, at times periodically deployed, and may in the future, periodically deploy public safety power shutoffs, which affect electricity reliability to our facilities and our communities. Certain sites located in the United States, Middle East, China, and India experience exposure to extreme heat and water stress, which could potentially jeopardize the health and well-being of our employees, consequently impacting our operations. While we seek to mitigate the business risks associated with climate change through site selection, infrastructure technological investments and robust environmental programs, this may require us to incur substantial costs, and we may be unsuccessful in doing so as there are inherent climate-related risks wherever business is conducted. Furthermore, climate change may reduce the availability or increase the cost of insurance for these negative impacts of natural disasters by contributing to an increase in the incidence and severity of such natural disasters. The increasing concern over climate change could also result in transition risks, such as shifting customer preferences or compliance risks from changing regulatory and legal requirements. Changing customer preferences may result in increased demands for sustainable solutions, products, and services, which may cause us to incur additional costs, invest more in R&D, or make other changes to other operations to respond to such demands, which could adversely affect our financial results. We may also confront higher electricity prices as the grid decarbonizes, and higher costs for supplies or components that comply with certain environmental regulatory thresholds, potentially impacting our margins or the pricing of our offerings. If we fail to manage these and other transition risks in an effective manner, customer demand for our solutions, products, and services could diminish, and our profitability could suffer. If we cannot continue to produce quality products and services, our reputation, business, and financial performance may suffer. In the course of conducting our business, we must adequately address quality issues associated with our products, services, and solutions, including defects in our engineering, design, and manufacturing processes and unsatisfactory performance under service contracts, as well as defects in third-party components included in our products and unsatisfactory performance or even malicious acts by third-party contractors or subcontractors or their employees. In order to address quality issues, we work extensively with our customers and suppliers and engage in product testing to determine the causes of problems and to develop and implement appropriate solutions. However, the products, services, and solutions that we offer are complex, and our regular testing and quality control efforts may not be effective in controlling or detecting all quality issues or errors, particularly with respect to faulty components manufactured by third parties. If we are unable to determine the cause, find an appropriate solution or offer a temporary fix (or “patch”) to address quality issues with our products, we may delay shipment to customers, which could delay revenue recognition and receipt of customer payments and could adversely affect our revenue, cash flows, and profitability. In addition, after products are delivered, quality issues may require us to repair or replace such products. Addressing quality issues can be expensive and may result in additional warranty, repair, replacement, and other costs, adversely affecting our financial performance. If new or existing customers have difficulty operating our products or are dissatisfied with our services or solutions, our results of operations could be adversely affected, and we could face possible claims if we fail to meet our customers' expectations. In addition, quality issues can impair our relationships with new or existing customers and adversely affect our brand and reputation, which could adversely affect our results of operations. Industry Risks We operate in an intensely competitive industry, and competitive pressures could harm our business and financial performance. Our ability to implement solutions for our customers, anticipate and respond to rapid and continuing changes in technology (such as cloud-, AI-, and security-related offerings, which are continually evolving), and develop new service offerings or incorporate technological improvements into our offerings that meet current and prospective customers’ needs, as well as evolving industry standards, is critical to our competitiveness and success. We encounter aggressive competition from numerous and varied competitors in all areas of our business, and our competitors have targeted and are expected to continue targeting our key market segments. We compete primarily on the basis of our technology, innovation, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, reputation, distribution, portfolio of products, ease of use, account relationships, customer training, service and support, and security of our offerings. If our products, services, support, and cost structure do not enable us to compete successfully based on any of those criteria, our results of operations and business prospects could be harmed. 23 We have a large portfolio of products and services and must allocate our financial, personnel, and other resources across all of our products and services while competing with companies that have smaller portfolios or specialize in one or more of our product or service lines. As a result, we may invest less in certain areas of our business than our competitors do, and our competitors may have greater financial, technical, and marketing resources available to them compared to the resources allocated to our products and services that compete against theirs. If we do not sufficiently invest in new technologies, successfully adapt to industry developments and changing demand, and evolve and expand our business at sufficient speed and scale to keep pace with the demands of the markets we serve, we may be unable to develop and maintain a competitive advantage and execute on our growth strategy, which would adversely affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. Industry consolidation may also affect competition by creating larger, more homogeneous, and potentially stronger competitors in the markets in which we operate. Additionally, our competitors may affect our business by entering into exclusive arrangements with our existing or potential customers or suppliers. Companies with whom we have vertical relationships in certain areas may be or become our competitors in other areas. In addition, companies with whom we have vertical relationships also may acquire or form relationships with our competitors, which could reduce their business with us. If we are unable to effectively manage these complicated relationships with vertical partners, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. We face aggressive price competition and may continue to do so. As a consequence of inflation and higher supply chain and manufacturing costs, we have in the past increased the prices of many of our products and services to maintain or improve our revenue and gross margin, and may do so again in the future. In addition, competitors who have a greater presence in some of the lower-cost markets in which we compete, or who can obtain better pricing, more favorable contractual terms and conditions, or more favorable allocations of products and components during periods of limited supply may be able to offer lower prices than we are able to offer. Our cash flows, results of operations, and financial condition may be adversely affected by these and other industry-wide pricing pressures. Because our business model is based on providing innovative and high-quality products and services, we may spend a proportionately greater amount of our revenues on R&D than some of our competitors. If we cannot proportionately decrease our cost structure (apart from R&D expenses) on a timely basis in response to competitive price pressures, our profitability could be adversely affected. In addition, if our pricing and other facets of our offerings are not sufficiently competitive, or if there is an adverse reaction to our product decisions, we may lose market share in certain areas, which could adversely affect our financial performance and business prospects. Even if we are able to maintain or increase market share for a particular product, its financial performance could decline because the product is in a maturing industry or market segment or contains technology that is becoming obsolete. For example, our Storage business unit is experiencing the effects of a market transition towards software defined and public cloud, which has led to a decline in demand for our traditional storage products. Financial performance could decline due to increased competition from other types of products. International Risks Due to the international nature of our business, political or economic changes and the laws and regulatory regimes applying to international transactions or other factors could harm our future revenue, costs and expenses, and financial condition. Our business and financial performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions and the demand for technology hardware, software, and services in, and continued access to, the markets in which we compete. Economic weakness and uncertainty and constrained spending on network and enterprise infrastructure have in the past adversely affected the demand for our products, services, and solutions. These have resulted in increased expenses due to higher allowances for doubtful accounts and potential goodwill and asset impairment charges, and made it more difficult for us to manage inventory and make accurate forecasts of revenue, gross margin, cash flows, and expenses, and may have such effects again in the future. Such factors, including how long such conditions may persist, among others, may negatively impact the evenness or volume of demand for our products and services, potentially resulting in impacts similar to those mentioned above, though the precise extent of such impacts cannot be accurately predicted. Economic weakness and uncertainty could cause our expenses to vary materially from our expectations. Any financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets, or any significant financial services institution failures could negatively impact our treasury operations, as the financial condition of such parties may deteriorate rapidly and without notice in times of market volatility and disruption. Interest and other expenses have varied, and could continue to vary, materially from expectations depending on changes in interest rates, borrowing costs, currency exchange rates, costs of hedging activities and the fair value of derivative instruments. For example, in response to increasing inflation, the U.S. Federal Reserve, along with central banks around the world, have been raising interest rates, signaled expectations of additional rate increases, and have indicated these rates may remain higher for longer. It is difficult to predict the impact of such events on us, our third-party partners, our customers, or economic markets more broadly, which have been and will continue to be highly dependent upon the actions of governments and businesses in response to macroeconomic events, and the effectiveness of those actions. Such 24 actions have impacted, and may further impact our ability, desire, or the timing of seeking funding for various investment opportunities. Economic downturns also may lead to restructuring actions and associated expenses. Further, reduced U.S. federal government spending may limit demand for our products, services, and solutions from organizations that receive funding from the U.S. government, and could negatively affect macroeconomic conditions in the United States, which could further reduce demand for our products, services, and solutions. Our business and financial performance also could be adversely affected by changes in U.S. trade policy, U.S. export controls and sanctions, and U.S. regulations concerning imports, as well as international laws and regulations relating to global trade. Current U.S. government trade policy includes the imposition of tariffs on certain foreign goods, including information and communication technology products. These measures have materially increased costs for certain goods imported into the United States. As a result, our business has in the past been impacted by forced material price increases, which in turn resulted in price increases for our offerings, which subsequently limited demand or reduced margins for our offerings, all of which may impact us again from time to time in the future. Additionally, U.S. trading partners may adopt their own trade policies making it more difficult or costly for us to export our products to those countries. Similarly, changes in regulations relating to exports could prevent us from exporting products to certain locations or customers entirely. In addition, changes in requirements relating to making foreign direct investments could increase our cost of doing business in certain jurisdictions, prevent us from shipping products to particular countries or markets, affect our ability to obtain favorable terms for components, increase our operating costs or lead to penalties or restrictions. Sales outside the United States constituted approximately 64% of our net revenue in fiscal 2023. As such, our future business and financial performance could suffer due to a variety of international factors in addition to those otherwise already disclosed, including: • ongoing uncertainties as a result of instability or changes in geopolitical conditions, including military or political conflicts, such as those caused by the ongoing conflicts between Russia and Ukraine or Israel and Hamas (the potential escalation or geographic expansion of which could heighten other risks identified in this report), or the relationship between China and the U.S. (which could, among other things, impact the enforceability of certain contracts or the timing and form of certain payments); • inflationary pressures, such as those the market is currently experiencing, which have increased, and may continue to increase, costs for materials, supplies, and services; • adverse or uncertain macroeconomic conditions, including a rising interest rate environment and fears of a potential global economic downturn or recession, which have at times in the past slowed customer demand for our products and services, and may do so again in the future; • network security, privacy, and data sovereignty concerns, which could make foreign customers reluctant to purchase products and services from U.S.-based technology companies; • longer collection cycles and financial instability among customers, which could impact our ability to collect on accounts receivable and consequently recognize revenue; • local labor conditions and regulations, including local labor issues faced by specific suppliers and OEMs, or changes to immigration and labor law policies which may adversely impact our access to technical and professional talent; • managing our geographically dispersed workforce, which has necessitated, and may in the future require, incurring costs to promote seamless workforce connectivity and to comply with changing laws, regulations and workers’ rights councils across multiple jurisdictions; • differing technology standards or customer requirements, which have required us to incur additional development and production costs to modify or adapt our offerings, and may do so again in the future; • local content and manufacturing requirements, which have impacted, and could further impact, our ability to sell into those markets; • difficulties associated with repatriating earnings in restricted countries, and changes in tax laws, which introduces uncertainty to our results of operations and financial performance; and • fluctuations in freight costs, limitations on shipping and receiving capacity, and other disruptions in the transportation and shipping infrastructure at important geographic points of exit and entry for our products and shipments, which have from time to time adversely impacted, and any of which could in the future adversely impact, our results of operations and ability to meet customer demand. Certain of the factors described above have, in the past, disrupted the operations of, and adversely impacted our product and component manufacturing and key suppliers, customers, or vendors located outside of the United States, and could do so again in the future. For example, we rely on suppliers in Asia for product assembly and manufacture, the operations of whom are subject to local labor laws and other requirements. Any loss of or limitations on their output or their inability to operate 25 could have an adverse effect on our ability to timely deliver our products and services, which would in turn negatively impact our financial performance. Further, the ongoing conflict between Russia and Ukraine and the trade sanctions imposed by the U.S., the European Union (the “EU”), and other countries in response have negatively impacted business and financial performance in that region. HPE is proceeding with the exit of our remaining business in Russia and Belarus as planned; however, we cannot provide any assurance that such exit will be efficient or uninterrupted, which may negatively impact our operational expenses. We implement policies, procedures, and training designed to facilitate compliance with anti-corruption laws around the world, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act. But in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, people may engage in business practices prohibited by anti-corruption laws. Our employees and third parties we work with may take actions in violation of our policies, and those actions could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation. We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Currencies other than the U.S. dollar, including the euro, the Japanese yen, and British pound have, from time to time, adversely impacted, and could in the future, have an adverse impact on our results as expressed in U.S. dollars. Currency volatility contributes to variations in our sales of products and services in impacted jurisdictions. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates have, from time to time, adversely affected, and could in future periods adversely affect our revenue recognition and our revenue growth. In addition, currency variations can adversely affect our ability to implement price increases, margins on sales of our products in countries outside of the United States and margins on sales of products that include components obtained from suppliers located outside of the United States. From time to time, we use forward contracts and options designated as cash flow hedges to protect against foreign currency exchange rate risks, and may continue to do so in the future. The effectiveness of our hedges depends on our ability to accurately forecast future cash flows, which is particularly difficult during periods of uncertain demand for our products and services and highly volatile exchange rates. We may incur significant losses from our hedging activities due to factors such as volatility and currency variations. In addition, certain or all of our hedging activities may be ineffective, may expire and not be renewed or may not offset any or more than a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from currency variations. Losses associated with hedging activities also may impact our revenue and to a lesser extent our cost of sales and financial condition. Intellectual Property Risks Our financial performance may suffer if we cannot continue to develop, license, or enforce the intellectual property rights on which our businesses depend. We rely upon patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret, and other intellectual property laws in the United States, similar laws in other countries, and agreements with our employees, customers, suppliers, and other parties, to establish and maintain intellectual property rights in the products and services we sell, provide, or otherwise use in our operations. However, from time to time our intellectual property rights have been challenged, infringed, or circumvented, and any of such rights could be further challenged, invalidated, infringed, or circumvented or such intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to permit us to take advantage of current market trends or to otherwise provide competitive advantages. Further, the laws of certain countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Therefore, in certain jurisdictions we may be unable to protect our proprietary technology adequately against unauthorized third-party copying or use; this, too, could adversely affect our ability to sell products or services and our competitive position. Our products and services depend in part on intellectual property and technology licensed from third parties. Much of our business and many of our products rely on key technologies developed or licensed by third parties. For example, many of our software offerings are developed using software components or other intellectual property licensed from third parties, including through both proprietary and open source licenses. These third-party software components may become obsolete, defective, or incompatible with future versions of our products, our relationship with the third party may deteriorate or cease, or our agreements with the third party may expire or be terminated. We may face legal or business disputes with licensors that may threaten or lead to the disruption of inbound licensing relationships. In order to remain in compliance with the terms of our licenses, we must carefully monitor and manage our use of third-party software components, including both proprietary and open source license terms that may require the licensing or public disclosure of our intellectual property without compensation or on undesirable terms. Additionally, some of these licenses may not be available to us in the future on terms that are acceptable or that allow our product offerings to remain competitive. Our inability to obtain licenses or rights on favorable terms could have a material effect on our business, including our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, it is possible that as a consequence of a merger or acquisition, third parties may obtain licenses to some of our intellectual property rights or our business may be subject to certain restrictions that were not in place prior to such transaction. Because the availability and cost of licenses from third parties depends upon the willingness of third parties to deal with us on the terms we request, there is a risk that third parties who license to our competitors will either refuse to license us at all, or 26 refuse to license us on terms equally favorable to those granted to our competitors. Consequently, we may lose a competitive advantage with respect to these intellectual property rights or we may be required to enter into costly arrangements in order to terminate or limit these rights. Third-party claims of intellectual property infringement, including patent infringement, are commonplace in our industry and successful third-party claims may limit or disrupt our ability to sell our products and services. Third parties may claim that we or customers indemnified by us are infringing upon or otherwise violating their intellectual property rights. Patent assertion entities frequently purchase intellectual property assets for the purpose of extracting infringement settlements. If we cannot license, or replace, allegedly infringed intellectual property on reasonable terms, our operations could be adversely affected. Even if we believe that intellectual property claims are without merit, they can be time-consuming and costly to defend against and may divert management's attention and resources away from our business. Claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to redesign affected products, discontinue certain product offerings, enter into costly settlement or license agreements, pay costly damage awards, or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from importing, marketing, or selling certain of our products. Even if we have an agreement to indemnify us against such costs, the indemnifying party may be unable or unwilling to uphold its contractual obligations to us. Financial Risks Adverse developments affecting our liquidity, capital position, borrowing costs, and access to capital markets could adversely impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. We currently maintain investment grade credit ratings with Moody's Investors Service, Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, and Fitch Ratings Services. Despite these investment grade credit ratings, any future downgrades could increase the cost of borrowing under any indebtedness we may incur, reduce market capacity for our commercial paper, or require the posting of additional collateral under our derivative contracts. Additionally, increased borrowing costs, including those arising from a credit rating downgrade, can potentially reduce the competitiveness of our financing business. There can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our credit ratings, and any additional actual or anticipated changes or downgrades in our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under review for a downgrade, may have a negative impact on our liquidity, capital position, and access to capital markets. In addition, volatility and disruption in the financial sector and capital markets and other events negatively affecting macroeconomic conditions or contributing to the instability or volatility thereof, such as rising interest rates, have from time to time in the past impacted, and may in the future impact, our liquidity, capital position, and access to capital markets. Our total liquidity depends in part on the availability of funds under the revolving credit facility and our other financing agreements. The failure of any lender's ability to fund future draws on our revolving credit facility or our other financing arrangements could reduce the amount of cash we have available for operations and additional capital for future needs. The future effects of such events are unknown and difficult to predict at this time, and could adversely affect us, our customers, financial institutions, transactional counterparties, or others with which we do business, which may in turn have adverse impacts on our current and/or projected business operations, financial condition, and our results of operations. Our debt obligations may adversely affect our business and our ability to meet our obligations and pay dividends. In addition to our current total carrying debt, we may also incur additional indebtedness in the future. This collective amount of debt could have important adverse consequences to us and our investors, including requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make principal and interest payments; making it more difficult to satisfy other obligations; increasing the risk of a future credit ratings downgrade of our debt, which could increase future debt costs and limit the future availability of debt financing; increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; reducing the cash flows available to fund capital expenditures and other corporate purposes and to grow our business; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; and limiting our ability to borrow additional funds as needed or take advantage of business opportunities as they arise, pay cash dividends or repurchase our common stock. Recent quantitative tightening by the U.S. Federal Reserve, along with other central banks around the world, have affected, and may continue to affect, our short-term ability to incur debt at reasonable prices, or our desire to incur debt at all. To the extent that we incur additional indebtedness, the risks described above could increase. In addition, our actual cash requirements in the future may be greater than expected. Our cash flow from operations may not be sufficient to service our outstanding debt or to repay our outstanding debt as it becomes due, and we may not be able to borrow money, sell assets, or otherwise raise funds on acceptable terms, or at all, to service or refinance our debt. The revenue and profitability of our operations have historically varied, which makes our future financial results less predictable. Our revenue, gross margin, and profit vary among our diverse products and services, customer groups, and geographic markets and therefore, will likely be different in future periods than our historical results. Our revenue depends on the overall demand for our products and services, which is difficult to accurately predict, varies from time to time, and may be uneven 27 across our portfolio of offerings. Additionally, customer acceptances of delivered orders and the timing thereof can be uneven across our portfolio and can impact our ability to recognize revenue. Such variables have in the past negatively impacted our financial performance, and may do so again in the future. Delays or reductions in IT spending by our customers or potential customers could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services, which could result in a significant decline in revenue. In addition, revenue declines in some of our businesses may affect revenue in our other businesses as we may lose cross-selling opportunities. Overall gross margins and profitability in any given period are dependent partially on the product, service, customer, and geographic mix reflected in that period's net revenue. Furthermore, the relationship between China and the U.S., and any subsequent action that may be taken by either country, may significantly vary the results our operations and financial performance from that region. There could be additional uncertainty surrounding the enforceability of contract obligations, as well as the timing and form of payments from China. Competition, lawsuits, investigations, increases in component and manufacturing costs that we are unable to pass on to our customers, component supply disruptions, and other risks affecting our businesses may have a significant impact on our overall gross margin and profitability. Variations in our fixed cost structure and gross margins across business units and product portfolios, have from time to time led to, and may lead to significant operating profit volatility on a quarterly or annual basis in the future. In addition, newer geographic market opportunities may be relatively less profitable due to our investments associated with entering those markets and local pricing pressures, and we may have difficulty establishing and maintaining the operating infrastructure necessary to support the high growth rate associated with some of those markets. Market trends, industry shifts, competitive pressures, commoditization of products, increased component or shipping costs, regulatory impacts, and other factors have from time to time resulted in, and may in the future result in, reductions in revenue or pressure on gross margins of certain segments in a given period, which may lead to adjustments to our operations. Moreover, our efforts to address the challenges facing our business could increase the level of variability in our financial results because the rate at which we are able to realize the benefits from those efforts may vary from period to period. Our uneven sales cycle and supply chain disruptions make planning and inventory management difficult and future financial results less predictable. In some of our businesses, our quarterly sales have periodically reflected a pattern in which a disproportionate percentage of each quarter's total sales occurs towards the end of the quarter. This uneven sales pattern makes predicting revenue, earnings, cash flow from operations, and working capital for each financial period difficult, increases the risk of unanticipated variations in our quarterly results and financial condition, and places pressure on our inventory management and logistics systems. If predicted demand is substantially greater than orders, there may be excess inventory; and alternatively, if orders substantially exceed predicted demand, we may not be able to fulfill all of the orders received in each quarter and such orders may be canceled, all of which we experienced from time to time in the past and may do so again in the future. Depending on when they occur in a quarter, developments such as a systems failure, component pricing movements, component shortages, or global logistics disruptions, have in the past adversely impacted, and could in the future adversely impact, our inventory levels and results of operations in a manner that is disproportionate to the number of days in the quarter affected. We experience some seasonal trends in the sale of our products that also have produced, and may in the future produce, variations in our quarterly results and financial condition. Many of the factors that create and affect seasonal trends are beyond our control. Separately, periodic supply chain shortages and constraints have, in some instances, resulted in, and may result in, increases to the costs of production of our hardware products that we have, at times, not been able to, and may, in the future, not be able to pass on to our customers. We have, in some instances, responded to such constraints by committing to higher inventory purchases and balances relative to our historical positions in order to secure manufacturing capacity. While these measures have been taken to shorten lead times to deliver products to customers, they may also result in excess or obsolete components in the future if the demand for our products is less than we anticipate, which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. We make estimates and assumptions in connection with the preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements and any changes to those estimates and assumptions could adversely affect our results of operations. In connection with the preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements, we use certain estimates and assumptions based on historical experience and other factors. Our most critical accounting estimates are described in the section entitled “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” In addition, as discussed in Note 1, “Overview and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies—Use of Estimates” and Note 17, “Litigation and Contingencies,” to our Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II, we make certain estimates, including decisions related to provisions for legal proceedings and other contingencies. While we believe that these estimates and assumptions are reasonable under the circumstances, they are subject to significant uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. Should any of these estimates and assumptions change or prove to have been incorrect, it could adversely affect our results of operations. Regulatory and Government Risks 28 Our business is subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that could result in costs or other sanctions that adversely affect our business and results of operations. We are subject to various federal, state, local, and foreign laws and regulations. Laws and regulations may change in ways that will require us to modify our business model and objectives or affect our returns on investments by restricting existing activities and products, subjecting them to escalating costs or prohibiting them outright. For example, as a result of laws and regulations concerning the environment, we face increasing complexity related to product design, safety and compliance; the use of regulated, hazardous, and scarce materials; the management, movement and disposal of hazardous substances and waste; the associated energy consumption and efficiency related to operations and the use of products, services, and solutions; the discharge of pollutants into the air and water; the transportation and shipping of products and other materials; supply chain due diligence, and climate change, emissions and sustainability-related regulations and reporting requirements; the use of AI capabilities in our offerings; and the reuse, recycling and/or disposal of products and their components at end-of-use or useful life and associated operational or financial responsibility, as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to our transition to a more circular economy. A significant portion of our hardware revenues come from international sales. Any changes to current environmental legal requirements, such as the EU's Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive, the EU's Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive, China's Administrative Measure on the Control of Pollution Caused by Electronic Information Products, the EU's Ecodesign Directive and product-specific implementing measures (including Lot 9 on servers and online data storage products), the evolving EU and US right to repair legal landscape, and India's regulation on e-waste collection and recycling, among others, may increase our cost of doing business internationally and impact our hardware revenues from the EU, U.S., China, India and/or other countries proposing or adopting similar environmental legal requirements. In addition, other ESG-related laws, regulations, treaties, and similar initiatives and programs are being proposed, adopted, and implemented throughout the world (including, but not limited to the EU Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive, the EU Taxonomy, and the proposed EU Corporate Sustainability Due Diligence Directive). If we were to violate or become liable under environmental or certain ESG-related laws or if our products become non-compliant with such laws or market access requirements, it could result in loss of market access or limit offerings in those markets or our customers may refuse to purchase our products, and we could incur costs or face other sanctions, such as restrictions on our products entering certain jurisdictions, fines, and/or civil or criminal sanctions. Environmental regulations may also impact the availability and cost of energy or emissions related to energy consumption which may increase our cost of manufacturing and/or the cost of powering and cooling owned IT infrastructures. In addition, our business is subject to an ever-growing number of laws addressing privacy and information security. In particular, we face an increasingly complex regulatory environment as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the security of our offerings. The increase in aaS offerings may also be impacted by data localization and international data transfer requirements under various privacy laws, including those arising from the Schrems II ruling in Europe. If we were to violate or become liable under laws or regulations associated with privacy or security, we could incur substantial costs or be exposed to potential regulatory fines, civil or criminal sanctions, third-party claims, and reputational damage. Jurisdictions in which we have significant operations and assets, such as the U.S., China, India, and the E.U., each have exercised and continue to exercise significant influence over many aspects of their domestic economies including, but not limited to fair competition, tax practices, anti-corruption, anti-trust, price controls and international trade, which have had and may continue to have an adverse effect on our business operations and financial condition. Contracts with federal, state, provincial, and local governments are subject to a number of challenges and risks that may adversely impact our business. Our contracts with federal, state, provincial, and local governmental customers are subject to various government procurement laws and regulations, required contract provisions, and other requirements relating to contract formation, administration, and performance, as well as local content, manufacturing, and security requirements. Any violation of government contracting laws and regulations or contract terms could result in the imposition of various civil and criminal penalties, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments and fines, treble damages, and suspension from future government contracting. Such failures could also cause reputational damage to our business. In addition, we will continue to be subject to qui tam litigation brought by private individuals on behalf of the government relating to our government contracts. If we are suspended or disbarred from government work or if our ability to compete for new government contracts is adversely affected, our financial performance could suffer. Government contracts impose additional challenges and risks to our sales efforts. Government demand and payment for our products and services may be impacted by public sector budgetary cycles and funding authorizations, including in connection with an extended federal government shutdown, with funding reductions, or delays adversely affecting public sector demand for our products and services. Such developments could result in material payment delays, payment reductions, or contract terminations by our governmental customers, which in turn may adversely impact the results of operations and financial condition of government contractors with whom we conduct business. This may cause those government contractors to become unable to meet their obligations under contracts with us. 29 Unanticipated changes in our tax provisions, the adoption of new tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities could affect our financial performance. We are subject to income and other taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our tax liabilities are affected by the amounts we charge in intercompany transactions for inventory, services, licenses, funding, and other items. We are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. Tax authorities may disagree with our intercompany charges, cross-jurisdictional transfer pricing or other matters, and may assess additional taxes as a result. There can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the amounts ultimately paid upon resolution of audits could be materially different from the amounts previously included in our income tax expense and therefore could have a material impact on our tax provision, net income and cash flows. In addition, our effective tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by changes to our operating structure, changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws, and the discovery of new information in the course of our tax return preparation process. The carrying value of our deferred tax assets is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income. The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, an international association of 38 countries including the United States, has proposed changes to numerous long-standing tax principles, namely, its Pillar Two framework, which imposes a global minimum corporate tax rate of 15%. In December 2022, the EU member states adopted a directive that implements the Pillar Two framework, which is expected to be enacted into the national laws of the EU member states by December 31, 2023. Certain countries in which we operate have enacted legislation to adopt the Pillar Two framework (e.g., United Kingdom and Korea), and several other countries are also considering changes to their tax laws to implement this framework. The first component of the Pillar Two framework is expected to be effective for us in fiscal 2025 with a second component expected to be effective in fiscal 2026. When and how this framework is adopted or enacted by the various countries in which we do business could increase tax complexity and uncertainty and may adversely affect our provision for income taxes in the U.S. and non-U.S. jurisdictions. On August 16, 2022, the U.S. government enacted the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (the “Inflation Reduction Act”) into law, which includes a new corporate alternative minimum tax (the “Corporate AMT”), beginning in fiscal 2024, of 15% on the adjusted financial statement income (“AFSI”) of corporations with average AFSI exceeding $1.0 billion over a three-year period.  We expect U.S. cash tax to increase in the short term as a result of the Corporate AMT but do not expect the effective tax rate to be impacted as the Corporate AMT is expected to be recovered as a credit in future years. During fiscal 2019, we executed a Termination and Mutual Release Agreement which terminated our Tax Matters Agreement with HP Inc. Because we now have limited indemnity rights from HP Inc., we potentially bear more economic risk for certain potential unfavorable tax assessments. Risks Related to Prior Separations The stock distribution in either or both of the completed separations of our former Enterprise Services business and our former Software segment could result in significant tax liability, and DXC Technology Company or Micro Focus International plc (as applicable) may in certain cases be obligated to indemnify us for any such tax liability imposed on us. The completed separations and mergers of our former Enterprise Services business with DXC Technology Company (“DXC”) (the “Everett Transaction” or “Everett”) and our Software Segment with Micro Focus International plc (“Micro Focus”) (the “Seattle Transaction” or “Seattle”) were conditioned upon the receipt of an opinion from outside counsel regarding the qualification of (i) the relevant distribution and related transactions as a “reorganization” within the meaning of Sections 368(a), 361 and 355 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the “Code”) and (ii) the relevant merger as a “reorganization” within the meaning of Section 368(a) of the Code. While the Seattle Transaction generally qualified for tax-free treatment for us, Seattle SpinCo and Micro Focus, the acquisition of Seattle SpinCo by Micro Focus resulted in the recognition of gain (but not loss) for U.S. persons who received Micro Focus American Depositary Shares in the Software separation. Each opinion of outside counsel was based upon and relied on, among other things, certain facts and assumptions, as well as certain representations, statements and undertakings of us, Everett SpinCo and CSC, or us, Seattle SpinCo and Micro Focus, as applicable. If any of these representations, statements or undertakings are, or become, inaccurate or incomplete, or if any party breaches any of its covenants in the relevant separation documents, the relevant opinion of counsel may be invalid and the conclusions reached therein could be jeopardized. Notwithstanding the opinions of counsel, the Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) could determine that either or both of the distributions should be treated as a taxable transaction if it determines that any of the facts, assumptions, representations, statements or undertakings upon which the relevant opinion of counsel was based are false or have been violated, or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion of counsel. An opinion of counsel is not binding on the IRS and there can be no assurance that the IRS will not assert a contrary position. If the distribution of Everett SpinCo or Seattle SpinCo, as applicable, together with certain related transactions, failed to qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free, for U.S. federal income tax purposes, under Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of 30 the Code, in general, we would recognize taxable gain as if we had sold the stock of Everett SpinCo or Seattle SpinCo, as applicable, in a taxable sale for its fair market value, and our stockholders who receive Everett SpinCo shares or Seattle SpinCo shares in the relevant distribution would be subject to tax as if they had received a taxable distribution equal to the fair market value of such shares. We obtained private letter rulings from the IRS regarding certain U.S. federal income tax matters relating to the separation of our Enterprise Services business and Software Segment. Those rulings concluded that certain transactions in those separations are generally tax-free for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The conclusions of the IRS private letter rulings were based, among other things, on various factual assumptions we have authorized and representations we have made to the IRS. If any of these assumptions or representations are, or become, inaccurate or incomplete, the validity of the IRS private letter rulings may be affected. Notwithstanding the foregoing, we incurred certain tax costs in connection with the completed separation of our former Enterprise Services business and Software Segment, including non-U.S. tax expenses resulting from the completed separation of our former Enterprise Services business and Software Segment in multiple non-U.S. jurisdictions that do not legally provide for tax-free separations, which may be material. If the completed separation of our former Enterprise Services business or Software Segment (including certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of those separations) are determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, we, our stockholders that are subject to U.S. federal income tax and/or DXC and/or Micro Focus could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities. Under the tax matters agreements entered into by us with Everett SpinCo and CSC, and with Seattle SpinCo and Micro Focus, Everett SpinCo and Seattle SpinCo generally would be required to indemnify us for any taxes resulting from the relevant separation (and any related costs and other damages) to the extent such amounts resulted from (i) certain actions taken by, or acquisitions of capital stock of, Everett SpinCo or Seattle SpinCo, as applicable (excluding actions required by the documents governing the relevant separation), or (ii) any breach of certain representations and covenants made by Everett SpinCo or Seattle SpinCo, as applicable. Any such indemnity obligations could be material. We continue to face a number of risks related to our separation from HP Inc., our former parent, including those associated with ongoing indemnification obligations, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, and shared use of certain intellectual property rights, which could in the future adversely impact our reputation. In connection with our separation from HP Inc. on November 1, 2015 (the “Separation”), Hewlett Packard Enterprise and HP Inc. entered into several agreements that determine the allocation of assets and liabilities between the companies following the Separation and include any necessary indemnifications related to liabilities and obligations. In these agreements, HP Inc. agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities, and we agreed to indemnify HP Inc. for certain liabilities, including cross-indemnities that are designed and intended to place financial responsibility for the obligations and liabilities of our business with us, and financial responsibility for the obligations and liabilities of HP Inc.'s business with HP Inc. We may be obligated to fully indemnify HP Inc. for certain liabilities under the Separation agreements or HP Inc. may not be able to fully cover their indemnification obligations to us under the same Separation agreements. Each of these risks could negatively affect our business, financial position, results of operations, and cash flows. In addition, the terms of the Separation also include licenses and other arrangements to provide for certain ongoing use of intellectual property in the operations of both businesses. For example, through a joint brand holding structure, both Hewlett Packard Enterprise and HP Inc. retain the ability to make ongoing use of certain variations of the legacy Hewlett-Packard and HP branding, respectively. As a result of this continuing shared use of the legacy branding there is a risk that conduct or events adversely affecting the reputation of HP Inc. could also adversely affect our reputation. General Risks Our stock price has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate, which may make future prices of our stock difficult to predict. Investors should not rely on recent or historical trends to predict future stock prices, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. Our stock price, like that of other technology companies, can be volatile and can be affected by, among other things, speculation, coverage, or sentiment in the media or the investment community; the announcement of new, planned or contemplated products, services, technological innovations, acquisitions, divestitures, or other significant transactions by us or our competitors; developments in our transformation programs or in our transition to an as-a-service business model; our quarterly financial results and comparisons to estimates by the investment community or financial outlook provided by us; the financial results and business strategies of our competitors; inflation; market volatility or downturns caused by outbreaks, epidemics, pandemics, geopolitical tensions or conflicts, or other macroeconomic dynamics; developments relating to pending investigations, claims, and disputes; or the timing and amount of our share repurchases. General or industry specific market conditions or stock market performance or domestic or international macroeconomic and geopolitical factors unrelated to our performance also may affect the price of our stock. Volatility in the price of our securities could result in the filing of securities class action litigation matters, which could result in substantial costs and the diversion of management time and resources. 31

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

For purposes of this Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”) section, we use the terms “Hewlett Packard Enterprise,” “HPE,” “the Company,” “we,” “us,” and “our” to refer to Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company. This section of this Form 10-K generally discusses fiscal 2023 and fiscal 2022 items and year-to-year comparisons between fiscal 2023 and fiscal 2022. Discussions of fiscal 2021 items and year-to-year comparisons between fiscal 2022 and fiscal 2021 that are not included in this Form 10-K can be found in “Part II, Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year October 31, 2022, as filed with the SEC on December 8, 2022, which is available on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. We intend the discussion of our financial condition and results of operations that follows to provide information that will assist the reader in understanding our Consolidated Financial Statements, changes in certain key items in those financial statements from year to year, and the primary factors that accounted for those changes, as well as how certain accounting principles, policies and estimates affect our Consolidated Financial Statements. This discussion should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and the related notes that appear elsewhere in this document. This MD&A is organized as follows: • Trends and Uncertainties. A discussion of material events and uncertainties known to management, such as the mixed macroeconomic environment, supply chain constraints (though easing), uneven demand across our portfolio, increased demand for and adoption of new technologies, conservative customer spending environment, inflationary trend and foreign exchange pressures, and recent tax developments. • Executive Overview. A discussion of our business and a summary of our financial performance and other highlights, including non-GAAP financial measures, affecting the Company in order to provide context to the remainder of the MD&A. • Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates. A discussion of accounting policies and estimates that we believe are important to understanding the assumptions and judgments incorporated in our reported financial results. • Results of Operations. A discussion of the results of operations at the consolidated level is followed by a discussion of the results of operations at the segment level. • Liquidity and Capital Resources. An analysis and discussion of changes in our cash flows, financial condition, liquidity, and cash requirements and commitments. • GAAP to Non-GAAP Reconciliation . Each non-GAAP financial measure has been reconciled to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure. This section also includes a discussion of the use, usefulness and economic substance of the non-GAAP financial measures, along with a discussion of material limitations, and compensation for those limitations, associated with the use of non-GAAP financial measures. TRENDS AND UNCERTAINTIES The elevated order book levels we experienced in fiscal 2022 have generally declined throughout fiscal 2023, as supply chain constraints eased (though challenges still remain) and demand softened unevenly across our portfolio (as a result of improving supply chain dynamics and as customers have been digesting their prior larger orders). Meanwhile, demand for and adoption of new technologies, such as AI, hybrid cloud, and edge computing, have increased. We have observed, and expect to continue seeing, customers of various segments and sizes pursue such new technologies. As noted above, we have continued to see elongated sales cycles, as customers work through prior orders and adopt a more conservative approach to spending in a mixed macroeconomic environment. This has been particularly true of certain of our hardware businesses, as customers have focused investments on modernizing infrastructure, such as migrating to cloud-based offerings. We expect such mixed macroeconomic environment to continue to moderate our revenue growth in the near term. As referenced above, mild improvements to industry-wide supply constraints have helped to ease certain supply chain challenges we encountered in the recent past, including the increased availability of supply and lower material and logistics costs. Material cost trends are dependent on the strength or weakness of actual end-user demand and supply dynamics, which will continue to evolve and ultimately impact the translation of the cost environment to our pricing actions and, consequently, our operating results. Logistics costs continued to decrease from previously elevated levels as a result of declines in both expedited shipments and overall rate costs in the freight network. 35 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Additionally, we continue to experience a challenging foreign exchange environment, which has increased costs of products and services and moderated our revenue and earnings growth. We have a large global presence, with more than half of our revenue generated outside of the U.S. As a result, our financial results can be, and particularly in recent periods have been, impacted by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Furthermore, inflationary pressures persist, keeping not only material and logistics costs, but also labor costs, somewhat elevated compared to pre-COVID-19 pandemic levels. We expect the unfavorable foreign exchange effects and inflationary trend to continue in the longer term. Recent Tax Developments The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, an international association of 38 countries including the United States, has proposed changes to numerous long-standing tax principles, namely, its Pillar Two framework, which imposes a global minimum corporate tax rate of 15%. In December 2022, the EU member states adopted a directive that implements the Pillar Two framework, which is expected to be enacted into the national laws of the EU member states by December 31, 2023. Certain countries in which we operate have enacted legislation to adopt the Pillar Two framework (e.g., United Kingdom and Korea), and several other countries are also considering changes to their tax laws to implement this framework. The first component of the Pillar Two framework is expected to be effective for us in fiscal 2025 with a second component expected to be effective in fiscal 2026. When and how this framework is adopted or enacted by the various countries in which we do business could increase tax complexity and uncertainty and may adversely affect our provision for income taxes in the U.S. and non-U.S. jurisdictions. On August 16, 2022, the U.S. government enacted the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (the “Inflation Reduction Act”) into law. The Inflation Reduction Act includes a new corporate alternative minimum tax (the “Corporate AMT”) of 15% on the adjusted financial statement income (“AFSI”) of corporations with average AFSI exceeding $1.0 billion over a three-year period. The Corporate AMT is effective for the Company beginning in fiscal 2024. We expect U.S. cash tax to increase in the short term as a result of the Corporate AMT but do not expect the effective tax rate to be impacted as the Corporate AMT is expected to be recovered as a credit in future years. The realizability of any deferred tax asset associated with the Corporate AMT will be determined through our annual valuation allowance analysis. Additionally, the Inflation Reduction Act imposes an excise tax of 1% tax on the fair market value of net stock repurchases made after December 31, 2022. The impact of this provision will be dependent on the extent of share repurchases made in future periods. The Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) is conducting audits of our fiscal 2017 through 2022 U.S. federal income tax returns. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2023, the IRS issued notices of proposed adjustments (“NOPAs”) for fiscal 2017, 2018, and 2019 relating to our intercompany transfer pricing. After the close of fiscal 2023, the IRS issued a Revenue Agent Report (“RAR”) finalizing their position on the NOPAs for the same issues and same fiscal years. The IRS is seeking to increase taxable income across the three fiscal years by $904 million. As of the balance sheet date, we have sufficient tax credit carryforwards to offset any incremental tax liability from the adjustments in the RAR. However, we disagree with the IRS’ adjustments and believe the positions taken on our tax returns are more likely than not to prevail on technical merits, and we will defend these positions through the IRS administrative processes, as necessary. Accordingly, no changes have been made to our reserves for uncertain tax positions in fiscal 2023 relating to the IRS’ adjustments. Russia/Ukraine Conflict The conflict between Russia and Ukraine and the related sanctions imposed by the U.S., European Union and other countries in response have negatively impacted our operations in both countries and increased economic and political uncertainty across the world. In response to the sanctions imposed, in February 2022, we suspended all new sales and shipments to Russia and Belarus and implemented compliance measures to address the continuously changing regulatory landscape. Based on a further assessment of business risks and needs, in June 2022, we determined that it was no longer tenable to maintain our operations in Russia and Belarus and have been proceeding with an orderly, managed exit of our remaining business in these countries. Other Trends and Uncertainties We have observed market trends and demand gravitating towards AI, hybrid cloud, and edge computing, and data securities capabilities, and offerings. The volume of data at the edge continues to grow, driven by the proliferation of more devices, which has led to the need for enhanced security at the edge, as well. The need for a unified cloud experience everywhere has grown, as well, in order to manage the growth of data at the edge. With the abundance of data, there are opportunities to develop AI tools with powerful computational abilities to extract insights and value from the captured data. We expect these market dynamics and trends to continue in the longer term. 36 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Observing these dynamics, we have accelerated our investment and innovation efforts in these areas that we see as critical to our long-term strategy and growth, including in pivoting our go-to-market motion and sales function. At the same time, we continue to strengthen our core Compute and Storage-oriented offerings and expand our offerings on the HPE GreenLake edge-to-cloud platform, to enable execution of our aaS pivot to become the edge-to-cloud company for our customers and partners. Furthermore, as noted elsewhere in this report, effective November 1, 2023, we have realigned our financial reporting segments to align with these key market trends. It is uncertain whether we will successfully execute this shift in strategic focus, realize the anticipated benefits of doing so, or capture the anticipated shares of the AI, hybrid cloud, and edge markets. The following Executive Overview, Results of Operations and Liquidity discussions and analysis compare fiscal 2023 to fiscal 2022 , unless otherwise noted. The Capital Resources and, Cash Requirements and Commitments sections present information as of October 31, 2023, unless otherwise noted. EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW Net revenue of $29.1 billion represented an increase of 2.2% (increased 5.5% on a constant currency basis) primarily due to higher average unit prices (“AUPs”) in the Intelligent Edge and Compute segments, and higher customer acceptances in the High Performance Computing & Artificial Intelligence (“HPC & AI”) segment. The increase in net revenue was moderated by a decline in server unit volume in the Compute segment and unfavorable currency fluctuations. The gross profit margin of 35.1% (or $10.2 billion) represents an increase of 1.7 percentage points from the prior-year period due to the impact of higher-margin networking revenue, higher AUPs in Intelligent Edge and Compute, and lower supply chain and commodity costs. T he operating profit margin of 7.2%, repre sents an increase of 4.5 percentage points primarily due to the aforementioned gross margin improvement, goodwill impairment charges for the HPC & AI and Software businesses in the prior-year period, and lower transformation expenses in the current period. The increase in operating profit margin was moderated by higher planned investments in research and development in the current period. Financial Results The following table summarizes our consolidated GAAP financial results: The following table summarizes our consolidated non-GAAP financial results: 37 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Each non-GAAP financial measure has been reconciled to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure herein. Please refer to the section “GAAP to non-GAAP Reconciliations” included in this MD&A for these reconciliations, a discussion of the use, usefulness and economic substance of the non-GAAP financial measures, along with a discussion of material limitations, and compensation for those limitations, associated with the use of non-GAAP financial measures. Annualized Revenue Run-rate (“ARR”) Our pivot to aaS continues its strong momentum with the addition of HPE GreenLake Cloud Services. Our mix of ARR is becoming more software-rich as we build our HPE GreenLake edge-to-cloud platform, which is improving our margin profile. On the innovation front, we announced a transformative new data storage services platform that brings our cloud operations model to wherever data lives by unifying data operations. The platform will be available through HPE GreenLake Central and includes a new data services cloud console and a suite of software subscription services that simplifies and automates global infrastructure at scale. We will continue to invest aggressively in HPE GreenLake Cloud Services to provide a true cloud experience and operating model, whether at the edge, on-premises or across multiple clouds. ARR represents the annualized revenue of all net HPE GreenLake edge-to-cloud platform services revenue, related financial services revenue (which includes rental income from operating leases and interest income from finance leases), and software-as-a-service, software consumption revenue, and other aaS offerings, recognized during a quarter and multiplied by four. We believe that ARR is a metric that allows management to better understand and highlight the potential future performance of our aaS business. We also believe ARR provides investors with greater transparency to our financial information and of the performance metric used in our financial and operational decision making and allows investors to see our results “through the eyes of management.” We use ARR as a performance metric. ARR should be viewed independently of net revenue and is not intended to be combined with it. ARR does not have any standardized definition and is therefore unlikely to be comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies. ARR is not a forecast and the active contracts at the end of a reporting period used in calculating ARR may or may not be extended or renewed by our customers. The following presents our ARR as of October 31, 2023 and 2022: The 39% year over year increase in ARR was due primarily to growth in our HPE GreenLake edge-to-cloud platform, which was due to an expanding customer installed base and expanded range of offerings on the HPE GreenLake edge-to-cloud platform. At the segment level, the growth was led by Intelligent Edge aaS and Storage aaS activity. Returning capital to our shareholders remains an important part of our capital allocation framework, which also consists of strategic investments. We believe our existing balance of cash and cash equivalents, along with commercial paper and other short-term liquidity arrangements, are sufficient to satisfy our working capital needs, capital asset purchases, dividends, debt repayments, and other liquidity requirements associated with our existing operations. As of October 31, 2023, our cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash were $4.6 billion, compared to $4.8 billion as of October 31, 2022, representing a decrease of $0.2 billion. 38 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES Our Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (“GAAP”), which requires us to make estimates, judgments, and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, net revenue and expenses, and the disclosure of contingent liabilities. A summary of significant accounting policies and a summary of recent accounting pronouncements applicable to our Consolidated Financial Statements are included in Note 1, “Overview and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II. An accounting policy is deemed to be critical if the nature of the estimate or assumption it incorporates is subject to material level of judgment related to matters that are highly uncertain and changes in those estimates and assumptions are reasonably likely to materially impact our Consolidated Financial Statements. Estimates and judgments are based on historical experience, forecasted events, and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Estimates and judgments may vary under different assumptions or conditions. We evaluate our estimates and judgments on an ongoing basis. We believe the accounting policies below are critical in the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations and require management’s most difficult, subjective, or complex judgments. Revenue Recognition We enter into contracts with customers that may include combinations of products and services, resulting in arrangements containing multiple performance obligations for hardware and software products and/or various services. The majority of our revenue is derived from sales of products and services and the associated support and maintenance, and such revenue is recognized when, or as, control of promised products or services is transferred to the customer at the transaction price. Transaction price is adjusted for variable consideration which may be offered in contracts with customers, partners, and distributors and may include rebates, volume-based discounts,  price protection, and other incentive programs. Significant judgment is applied in determining the transaction price as we may be required to estimate variable consideration at the time of revenue recognition. When determining the amount of revenue to recognize, we estimate the expected usage of these programs, applying the expected value or most likely estimate and update the estimate at each reporting period as actual utilization becomes available. Variable consideration is recognized only to the extent that it is probable that a significant reversal of revenue will not occur. We also consider the customers' right of return in determining the transaction price, where applicable. To recognize revenue for the products and services for which control has been transferred, we allocate the transaction price for the contract among the performance obligations on a relative standalone selling price (“SSP”) basis. For products and services sold as a bundle, the SSP is generally not directly observable and requires the Company to estimate SSP based on management judgment by considering available data such as internal margin objectives, pricing strategies, market/competitive conditions, historical profitability data, as well as other observable inputs.  For certain products and services, the Company establishes SSP based on the observable price when sold separately in similar circumstances to similar customers. The Company establishes SSP ranges for its products and services and reassesses them periodically. Taxes on Earnings We calculate our current and deferred tax provisions based on estimates and assumptions that could differ from the final positions reflected in our income tax returns. We adjust our current and deferred tax provisions based on our tax returns which are generally filed in the third or fourth quarters of the subsequent fiscal year. We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected tax consequences of temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which we expect the differences to reverse. We record a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that we are more likely than not to realize. In determining the need for a valuation allowance, we consider future market growth, forecasted earnings, future sources of taxable income, the mix of earnings in the jurisdictions in which we operate, and prudent and feasible tax planning strategies.  In order for us to realize our deferred tax assets, we must be able to generate sufficient taxable income, of the appropriate character, in the jurisdictions in which the deferred tax assets are located, prior to their expiration under applicable tax laws. 39 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Our effective tax rate includes the impact of certain undistributed foreign earnings and basis differences for which we have not provided for U.S. federal taxes because we plan to reinvest such earnings and basis differences indefinitely outside the U.S. We will remit non-indefinitely reinvested earnings of our non-U.S. subsidiaries for which deferred U.S. state income and foreign withholding taxes have been provided where excess cash has accumulated and when we determine that it is advantageous for business operations, tax, or cash management reasons. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and approximately 85 other countries, and we are subject to routine corporate income tax audits in many of these jurisdictions. We believe that positions taken on our tax returns are fully supported, but tax authorities may challenge these positions, which may not be fully sustained on examination by the relevant tax authorities. Accordingly, our income tax provision includes amounts intended to satisfy assessments that may result from these challenges. Determining the income tax provision for these potential assessments and recording the related effects requires management judgments and estimates. The amounts ultimately paid on resolution of an audit could be materially different from the amounts previously included in our income tax provision and, therefore, could have a material impact on our Provision for taxes, Net earnings and cash flows. Our accrual for uncertain tax positions is attributable primarily to uncertainties concerning the tax treatment of our international operations, including the allocation of income among different jurisdictions, intercompany transactions and related interest, and uncertain tax positions from acquired companies. For further discussion on taxes on earnings, refer to Note 6, “Taxes on Earnings,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II. Goodwill We review goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level annually on the first day of the fourth quarter, or whenever events or circumstances indicate the carrying amount of goodwill may not be recoverable. We are permitted to conduct a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is necessary to perform a quantitative goodwill impairment test. As of October 31, 2023, our reporting units with goodwill are consistent with the reportable segments identified in Note 2, “Segment Information” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II, with the exception of Corporate Investments and Other which contains five reporting units: Advisory and Professional Services, Athonet, legacy Communications and Media Solutions business, OpsRamp and Software. When performing the goodwill impairment test, we compare the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying amount. An impairment exists if the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. For two of our reporting units, Athonet and OpsRamp, we perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value is less than the carrying amount.  The qualitative assessment requires management judgement in assessing factors including, but not limited to, the macroeconomic and industry environment as well as Company-specific factors.  The assessments for Athonet and OpsRamp as of our test date indicated that it is not more likely than not that the fair values of these two reporting units are less than their carrying amounts. For all of our other reporting units, we conduct a quantitative assessment. Estimating the fair value of a reporting unit is judgmental in nature and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. We estimate the fair value of our reporting units using a weighting of fair values derived mostly from the income approach and, to a lesser extent, the market approach, with the exception of the Software reporting unit which uses a weighting derived solely from the market approach. Under the income approach, the fair value of a reporting unit is based on discounted cash flow analysis of management's short-term and long-term forecast of operating performance. This analysis includes significant assumptions regarding revenue growth rates, expected operating margins, and timing of expected future cash flows based on market conditions and customer acceptances. The discount rate used is based on the weighted-average cost of capital of comparable public companies adjusted for the relevant risk associated with business specific characteristics and the uncertainty related to the reporting unit's ability to execute on the projected cash flows. Under the market approach, the fair value is based on market multiples of revenue and earnings derived from comparable publicly traded companies with operating and investment characteristics similar to the reporting unit. We weight the fair value derived from the market approach commensurate with the level of comparability of these publicly traded companies to the reporting unit. When market comparables are not meaningful or not available, we estimate the fair value of a reporting unit using the income approach. In addition, we make certain judgments and assumptions in allocating shared assets and liabilities to individual reporting units to determine the carrying amount of each reporting unit. Our annual goodwill impairment analysis, which we performed as of the first day of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2023, did not result in any impairment charges. The excess of fair value over carrying amount for our reporting units ranged from approximately 5% to 218% of the respective carrying amounts. In order to evaluate the sensitivity of the estimated fair value of our reporting units in the goodwill impairment test, we applied a hypothetical 10% decrease to the fair value of each reporting 40 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) unit. Based on the results of this hypothetical 10% decrease all of the reporting units had an excess of fair value over carrying amount, except for Compute. The Compute reporting unit has goodwill of $7.7 billion as of October 31, 2023, and excess of fair value over carrying value of 5% as of the annual test date. The Compute business is facing challenges reflected in the results for October 31, 2023. The Compute business is cyclical in nature. Over the last several years, digital transformation drove increased investment to modernize infrastructure. However, in the current macroeconomic and inflationary environment, customers have slowed their investments resulting in lower server demand and competitive pricing. These dynamics are further compounded by higher supply chain costs. During this cycle, the Compute business continues to focus on capturing market share while maintaining operating margin. The HPC & AI reporting unit has goodwill of $2.9 billion as of October 31, 2023, and excess of fair value over carrying value of 12% as of the annual test date. The HPC & AI business continues to face challenges related to supply chain constraints of key components and other operational challenges impacting our ability to achieve certain customer acceptance milestones required for revenue recognition and resulting cost increases associated with fulfilling contracts over longer than originally anticipated timelines. We currently believe these challenges will be successfully addressed as the supply chain constraints continue to improve. In addition, effective November 1, 2023 (fiscal 2024), there were organizational changes impacting the composition of our reporting units. These changes will require us to perform an interim impairment assessment as of that date. If the global macroeconomic or geopolitical conditions worsen, projected revenue growth rates or projected operating margins are not achieved, weighted average cost of capital increases, or if we have a significant sustained decline in our stock price, it is possible our estimates about the Compute, HPC & AI, or our other reporting units’ ability to successfully address the current challenges may change, which could result in the carrying value for our reporting units exceeding their estimated fair value resulting in potential impairment charges. Our fiscal 2022 annual goodwill impairment analysis resulted in impairment charges for goodwill related to the HPC & AI and Software reporting units. There was no impairment of goodwill for our other reporting units. The decline in the fair value of the HPC & AI reporting unit in fiscal 2022 below its carrying value resulted from changes in expected future cash flows due to the continuation of supply chain constraints, and other operational challenges as well as an increase in cost of capital. As a result, a goodwill impairment charge of $815 million was recorded in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2022. The decline in the fair value of the Software reporting unit in fiscal 2022 resulted primarily from a decline in market multiples. As a result, a goodwill impairment charge of $90 million was recorded in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2022. Contingencies We are subject to the possibility of losses from various contingencies. Significant judgment is necessary to estimate the probability and amount of a loss, if any, from such contingencies. An accrual is made when it is probable that a liability has been incurred or an asset has been impaired and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. We review these matters at least quarterly and adjust these liabilities to reflect the impact of negotiations, settlements, rulings, advice of legal counsel, and other updated information and events, pertaining to a particular case. Based on our experience, we believe that any damage amounts claimed in the specific litigation and contingency matters further discussed in Note 17, “Litigation and Contingencies,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II, are not a meaningful indicator of our potential liability. Litigation is inherently unpredictable. However, we believe we have valid defenses with respect to legal matters pending against us. Nevertheless, cash flows or results of operations could be materially affected in any particular period by the resolution of one or more of these contingencies. We believe we have recorded adequate provisions for any such matters and, as of October 31, 2023, it was not reasonably possible that a material loss had been incurred in connection with such matters in excess of the amounts recognized in our financial statements. 41 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Revenue from our international operations has historically represented, and we expect will continue to represent, a majority of our overall net revenue. As a result, our revenue growth has been impacted, and we expect will continue to be impacted, by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. In order to provide a framework for assessing performance excluding the impact of foreign currency fluctuations, we present the year-over-year percentage change in revenue on a constant currency basis, which assumes no change in foreign currency exchange rates from the prior-year period and does not adjust for any repricing or demand impacts from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. This change in revenue on a constant currency basis is calculated as the quotient of (a) current year revenue converted to U.S. dollars using the prior-year period's foreign currency exchange rates divided by (b) the prior-year period revenue. This information is provided so that revenue can be viewed without the effect of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, which is consistent with how management evaluates our revenue results and trends. This constant currency disclosure is provided in addition to, and not as a substitute for, the year-over-year percentage change in revenue on a GAAP basis. Other companies may calculate and define similarly labeled items differently, which may limit the usefulness of this measure for comparative purposes. Results of operations in dollars and as a percentage of net revenue were as follows: 42 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Fiscal 2023 compared with fiscal 2022 Net revenue In fiscal 2023, total net revenue of $29.1 billion represented an increase of $639 million, or 2.2% (increased 5.5% on a constant currency basis). U.S. net revenue increased by $944 million, or 10.0% to $10.4 billion, and net revenue from outside of the U.S. decreased by $305 million, or 1.6%, to $18.7 billion. The components of the weighted net revenue change by segment were as follows: Fiscal 2023 compared with fiscal 2022 From a segment perspective, the primary factors contributing to the change in total net revenue are summarized as follows: • Compute net revenue decrease of $1,414 million, or 11.0%, primarily due to a decline in server unit volume and unfavorable currency fluctuations moderated by higher AUPs • HPC & AI net revenue increase of $721 million, or 22.6%, primarily due to higher customer acceptances • Storage net revenue decrease of $188 million, or 4.1%, primarily due to unfavorable currency fluctuations • Intelligent Edge net revenue increase of $1,530 million, or 41.6%, primarily due to increased AUPs and volume and product mix effect • Financial Services net revenue increase of $141 million, or 4.2%, primarily due to higher rental revenue from higher average operating leases and higher finance income on finance leases due to an increasing interest rate environment • Corporate Investments and Other net revenue decrease of $5 million, or 0.4%, primarily due to unfavorable currency fluctuations Gross Profit Fiscal 2023 total gross profit margin of 35.1% represents an increase of 1.7 percentage points as compared to the respective prior year period. The increase was due to the impact of higher-margin networking revenue, higher AUPs in  Intelligent Edge and Compute, and lower supply chain and commodity costs. Additionally, the increase was partially offset by lower gross profit from support services. Operating expenses Research and development (“R&D”) R&D expense increased by $304 million, or 14.9%, led by Intelligent Edge, HPC & AI and Storage. The increase was driven by higher employee costs due to an increase in software engineers to pursue our strategic goals, which contributed 15.6 percentage points to the change. 43 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Selling, general and administrative (“SG&A”) SG&A expense increased by $219 million, or 4.4%, due primarily to higher travel and marketing expenses by 1.8 percentage points; increased employee costs by 1.7 percentage points; factoring fees, charitable donations, other general expenses and higher software expenditures, all of which contributed 1.9 percentage points to the change. The increase was partially offset by a combination of lower consulting costs and cost savings from our transformation programs. Impairment of goodwill Impairment of goodwill for fiscal 2022 represents a partial goodwill impairment charge of $905 million recorded in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2022, as it was determined that the fair value of the HPC & AI and Software reporting units was below the carrying value of their net assets. Transformation programs and costs Our transformation programs consist of the Cost Optimization and Prioritization Plan (launched in 2020) and the HPE Next Plan (launched in 2017). Transformation costs decreased by $190 million, or 40.2%, due to lower charges incurred in the current period as these plans approach completion. Refer to Note 3, “Transformation Programs” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II for further discussion. Disaster charges Disaster charges decreased by $47 million or 97.9% due to charges recorded in fiscal 2022 driven by the Company’s exit from its Russia and Belarus businesses. Interest and other, net Interest and other, net expense decreased by $32 million, due to favorable currency fluctuations and an increase in net interest income from higher interest rates, partially offset by an increase in impairments recorded on equity investments in fiscal 2023. Tax indemnification and other adjustments We record changes in certain pre-separation and pre-divestiture tax liabilities and tax receivables for which we remain liable on behalf of the separated or divested business, but which may not be subject to indemnification. We recorded Tax indemnification and other adjustments income of $55 million and expense of $67 million in fiscal 2023 and 2022, respectively. In fiscal 2023, Tax indemnification and other adjustments included the favorable settlement of tax indemnification liabilities for certain pre-divestiture tax liabilities. In fiscal 2022, Tax indemnification and other adjustments resulted from changes in certain pre-separation tax liabilities, for which we partially shared joint and several liability with HP Inc. and for which we were indemnified under the Termination and Mutual Release Agreement, and changes to certain pre-divestiture tax liabilities and tax receivables. Non-service net periodic benefit (cost) credit Non-service net periodic benefit (cost) credit represents the components of net periodic pension benefit costs, other than service cost, for the Hewlett Packard Enterprise defined benefit pension and post-retirement benefit plans such as interest cost, expected return on plan assets, and the amortization of prior plan amendments and actuarial gains or losses. The benefit (cost) credit also includes the impact of any plan settlements, curtailments, or special termination benefits. In fiscal 2023, Non-service net periodic benefit (cost) credit decreased by $137 million resulting in non-service net periodic benefit cost of $3 million in the current period, as compared to non-service net periodic benefit credit of $134 million in fiscal 2022. The change was primarily due to higher interest cost as a result of higher discount rates, partially offset by higher expected returns on assets and lower amortized actuarial losses in the current period. 44 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Earnings from equity interests Earnings from equity interests primarily represents our 49% interest in H3C Technologies Co., Limited (“H3C”) and the amortization of our interest in a basis difference. In fiscal 2023, Earnings from equity interests increased by $30 million due primarily to lower amortization expense from basis difference in the current period. Provision for taxes For fiscal 2023 and 2022, we recorded income tax expense of $205 million and $8 million, respectively, which reflect effective tax rates of 9.2% and 0.9%, respectively. Our effective tax rate generally differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 21% due to favorable tax rates associated with certain earnings from our operations in lower tax jurisdictions throughout the world but may also be materially impacted by discrete tax adjustments during the fiscal year. Our tax rate for fiscal 2022 also included the effects of the non-deductible goodwill impairment. The jurisdictions with favorable tax rates that had the most significant impact on our effective tax rate in the periods presented include Puerto Rico and Singapore. In fiscal 2023, we recorded $131 million of net income tax benefits related to items discrete to the year. These amounts primarily included: • $104 million of income tax benefits related to transformation costs and acquisition, disposition and other related charges and • $19 million of net excess tax benefits related to stock-based compensation. In fiscal 2022, we recorded $454 million of net income tax benefits related to items discrete to the year. These amounts primarily included: • $150 million of income tax benefits related to releases of foreign valuation allowances, • $99 million of income tax benefits related to transformation costs and acquisition, disposition and other related charges, • $43 million of income tax benefits related to the settlement of U.S. tax audit matters, • $42 million of income tax benefits related to the release of U.S. passive foreign tax credit valuation allowance, • $30 million of income tax benefits related to the change in pre-separation tax liabilities, primarily those for which we shared joint and several liability with, and for which we were indemnified by, HP Inc., • $27 million of income tax benefits related to the utilization of capital losses which had a full valuation allowance, • $12 million of income tax benefits as a result of the fiscal 2021 U.S. tax return filing primarily from the decrease in Global Intangible Low Taxed Income, and • $11 million of net income tax benefits related to settlements and ongoing discussions in foreign tax audit matters. Segment Information Hewlett Packard Enterprise's organizational structure is based on a number of factors that the Chief Operating Decision Maker (“CODM”), who is the CEO, uses to evaluate, view, and run our business operations, which include, but are not limited to, customer base and homogeneity of products and technology. The segments are based on this organizational structure and information reviewed by Hewlett Packard Enterprise's management to evaluate segment results. A description of the products and services for each segment, along with other pertinent information related to Segments can be found in Note 2, “Segment Information,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II. Segment Results The following provides an overview of our key financial metrics by segment for fiscal 2023 as compared to fiscal 2022: 45 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) (1) HPE consolidated net revenue excludes inter-segment net revenue. (2) Segment earnings from operations exclude certain unallocated corporate costs and eliminations, stock-based compensation expense, amortization of initial direct costs, amortization of intangible assets, impairment of goodwill, transformation costs, disaster charges and acquisition, disposition and other related charges. Compute Fiscal 2023 compared with fiscal 2022 Compute net revenue decreased by $1,414 million, or 11.0% (decreased 7.1% on a constant currency basis), primarily due to a $1,424 million, or 14.3%, decrease in product revenue. The decline in product revenue was primarily due to lower server unit volume of $1,889 million, or 18.9%, and unfavorable currency fluctuations of $399 million. The product revenue decline was moderated by an increase in AUPs of $864 million, or 8.7%, led by higher sales of server configurations with more complex component architectures in our next generation products. Compute earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue decreased 0.5 percentage points primarily due to an increase in operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue partially offset by a decrease in the cost of products and services as a percentage of net revenue. The increase in operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue was primarily due to the scale of the net revenue decline. The decrease in costs of products and services as a percentage of net revenue was primarily due to higher AUPs moderated by unfavorable currency fluctuations and higher supply chain costs. HPC & AI Fiscal 2023 compared with fiscal 2022 HPC & AI net revenue increased by $721 million, or 22.6% (increased 25.2% on a constant currency basis), primarily due to a $759 million, or 33.6%, increase in product revenue. The product revenue increase was led by the HPE Cray Supercomputing product portfolio, as operational and supply improvements addressed challenges with achieving certain 46 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) customer acceptance milestones for revenue recognition. HPE Cray Supercomputing experienced a deal volume increase of $991 million, or 43.9 %, moderated by lower AUPs of $358 million, or 15.8%. The product revenue was also impacted by unfavorable currency fluctuation of $69 million. Services revenue declined by $38 million, or 4.1%, primarily due to unfavorable portfolio mix of service offerings. HPC & AI earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue remained relatively flat, driven by a decrease in operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue partially offset by an increase in costs of products and services as a percentage of net revenue. Storage Fiscal 2023 compared with fiscal 2022 Storage net revenue decreased by $188 million, or 4.1% (decreased 0.7% on a constant currency basis) primarily due to unfavorable currency fluctuations and a decrease in AUPs. Storage product revenue decreased by $187 million, or 6.9%, primarily due to unfavorable currency fluctuations of $122 million, a decrease in AUPs of $21 million, or 0.8%, led by HPE Alletra Storage portfolio and big data, a unit volume decrease of $25 million, or 0.9%, led by HPE Alletra Storage portfolio and moderated by big data, and lower revenue from Russia of $20 million. Storage services revenue remained relatively flat. Storage earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue decr eased 4.2 perce ntage points due to increases in cost of products and services as a percentage of net revenue and operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue. The increase in cost of products and services as a percentage of net revenue was due primarily to unfavorable currency fluctuations partially offset by lower supply chain costs. The increase in operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue was due primarily to incremental investments in R&D and field selling costs. Intelligent Edge Fiscal 2023 compared with fiscal 2022 Intelligent Edge net revenue increased by $1,530 million, or 41.6% (increased 44.9% on a constant currency basis). Product revenue increased by $1,387 million, or 46.5%, led by higher AUPs of $1,257 million, or 42.2%, and a volume and product mix effect of $236 million, or 7.9%, moderated by unfavorable currency fluctuations of $106 million. The product revenue increase was led by switching and wireless local area network products, which benefited from improvements in the supply availability, and elevated order book levels at the beginning of the period. Services net revenue increased $143 million, or 20.6%, primarily led by our aaS and attached support service offerings. Intelligent Edge earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue increased 12.4 percentage points primarily due to decreases in cost of products and services as a percentage of net revenue and operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue. The decrease in cost of product and services as a percentage of net revenue was primarily due to lower supply chain costs, moderating the decrease was a lower mix of higher-margin support services revenue. Operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue decreased primarily due to our cost containment measures. 47 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Financial Services Fiscal 2023 compared with fiscal 2022 FS net revenue increased by $141 million, or 4.2% (increased 5.4% on a constant currency basis) due primarily to higher rental revenue from higher average operating leases and higher finance income on finance leases due to an increasing interest rate environment, partially offset by lower asset management revenue primarily from lower pre-owned asset sales and unfavorable currency fluctuations. FS earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue decreased 2.8 percentage points due primarily to an increase in cost of services as a percentage of net revenue, while operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue were relatively flat. The increase to cost of services as a percentage of net revenue resulted primarily from a combination of higher borrowing costs and higher depreciation expense, partially offset by lower bad debt expense. Financing Volume Financing volume, which represents the amount of financing provided to customers for equipment and related software and services, including intercompany activity, increased by 2.6% in fiscal 2023 as compared to the prior-year period. The increase was primarily driven by higher financing of HPE product sales and services, partially offset by lower financing of third-party product sales and services and unfavorable currency fluctuations. Portfolio Assets and Ratios The FS business model is asset intensive and uses certain internal metrics to measure its performance against other financial services companies, including a segment balance sheet that is derived from our internal management reporting system. The accounting policies used to derive FS amounts are substantially the same as those used by the Company. However, intercompany loans and certain accounts that are reflected in the segment balances are eliminated in our Consolidated Financial Statements. 48 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) The portfolio assets and ratios derived from the segment balance sheets for FS were as follows: (1) Intercompany activity is eliminated in consolidation. (2) Allowance for credit losses for financing receivables includes both the short- and long-term portions. (3) Debt benefiting FS consists of intercompany equity that is treated as debt for segment reporting purposes, intercompany debt, and borrowing- and funding-related activity associated with FS and its subsidiaries. Debt benefiting FS totaled $11.6 billion and $11.5 billion at October 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively, and was determined by applying an assumed debt-to-equity ratio, which management believes to be comparable to that of other similar financing companies. FS equity at October 31, 2023 and 2022, was $1.7 billion and $1.6 billion, respectively. As of October 31, 2023 and 2022 , FS net cash and cash equivalents balances were $700 million and $923 million, respectively. Net portfolio assets as of October 31, 2023 increased 4.3% from October 31, 2022. The increase generally resulted from new financing volume exceeding portfolio runoff during the period, along with favorable currency fluctuations. FS bad debt expense includes charges to general reserves, specific reserves and write-offs for sales-type, direct-financing and operating leases. FS recorded net bad debt expense of $59 million, $82 million and $95 million in fiscal 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Corporate Investments and Other Fiscal 2023 compared with fiscal 2022 Corporate Investments and Other net revenue decreased by $5 million, or 0.4% (increased 3.3% on a constant currency basis) primarily due to unfavorable currency fluctuations. Corporate Investments and Other loss from operations as a percentage of net revenue increased 6.5 percenta ge points primarily due to an increase in cost of services and operating expense as a percentage of net revenue. The increase in cost of services as a percentage of net revenue was primarily due to unfavorable currency fluctuations, higher services delivery costs and higher variable compensation expense. The increase in operating expenses as a percentage of net revenue was primarily due to higher variable compensation expense. 49 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Current Overview We use cash generated by operations as our primary source of liquidity. We believe that internally generated cash flows will be generally sufficient to support our operating businesses, capital expenditures, product development initiatives, acquisitions and disposal activities including legal settlements, restructuring activities, transformation costs, indemnifications, maturing debt, interest payments, and income tax payments, in addition to any future investments, share repurchases, and stockholder dividend payments. We expect to supplement this short-term liquidity, if necessary, by accessing the capital markets, issuing commercial paper, and borrowing under credit facilities made available by various domestic and foreign financial institutions. However, our access to capital markets may be constrained and our cost of borrowing may increase under certain business, market and economic conditions. We anticipate that the funds made available and cash generated from operations along with our access to capital markets will be sufficient to meet our liquidity requirements for at least the next twelve months and for the foreseeable future thereafter. Our liquidity is subject to various risks including the risks identified in the section entitled “Risk Factors” in Item 1A and market risks identified in the section entitled “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk” in Item 7A. Our cash balances are held in numerous locations throughout the world, with a substantial amount held outside the U.S as of October 31, 2023. We utilize a variety of planning and financing strategies in an effort to provide availability of our worldwide cash when and where it is needed. Amounts held outside of the U.S. are generally utilized to support our non-U.S. liquidity needs. Repatriations of amounts held outside the U.S. generally should not be taxable from a U.S. federal tax perspective, but may be subject to state income or foreign withholding tax. Where local restrictions prevent an efficient intercompany transfer of funds, our intent is to keep cash balances outside of the U.S. and to meet liquidity needs through ongoing cash flows, external borrowings, or both. We do not expect restrictions or potential taxes incurred on the repatriation of amounts held outside of the U.S. to have a material effect on our overall liquidity, financial condition or results of operations. In connection with the share repurchase program previously authorized by our Board of Directors, during fiscal 2023, we repurchased and settled an aggregate amount of $0.4 billion. As of October 31, 2023, we had a remaining authorization of approximately $1.0 billion for future share repurchases. For more information on our share repurchase program, refer to Note 15, “Stockholders' Equity,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II. Pursuant to the Shareholders' Agreement among our relevant subsidiaries, Unisplendour International Technology Limited (“UNIS”), and H3C dated as of May 1, 2016, as amended from time to time, and most recently on October 28, 2022, we delivered a notice to UNIS on December 30, 2022, to exercise our right to put to UNIS, for cash consideration, all of the H3C shares held by us, which represent 49% of the total issued share capital of H3C. On May 26, 2023, our relevant subsidiaries entered into a Put Share Purchase Agreement with UNIS, whereby UNIS has agreed to purchase all of the H3C shares held by us, through our subsidiaries, for a total pre-tax cash consideration of $3.5 billion. We intend to consider a range of allocation activities, in line with our practice of pursuing a balanced, returns-based approach for capital allocation decisions, including but not limited to organic and strategic investments, return of capital to shareholders, repayment and/or redemption of outstanding debt, and general corporate purposes. The disposition remains subject to obtaining required regulatory approvals and completion of certain conditions necessary for closing. 50 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Liquidity Our cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash, total debt and available borrowing resources were as follows: (1) The maximum aggregate borrowing amount of the commercial paper programs and revolving credit facility is $5.75 billion. (2) The maximum aggregate capacity under the uncommitted lines of credit is $1.8 billion of which $0.3 billion was primarily utilized towards issuances of bank guarantees. The tables below represent the way in which management reviews cash flows: Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities decrease d by $165 million for fiscal 2023, as compared to fiscal 2022. The decrease was primarily due to unfavorable working capital primarily resulting from higher vendor payments and an increase in financing receivables, moderated by unfavorable hedging positions, lower cash payouts for variable compensation, and favorable impacts from other assets and liabilities during the current period. Our working capital metrics and cash conversion impacts were as follows: The cash conversion cycle is the sum of DSO and DOS less DPO. Items which may cause the cash conversion cycle in a particular period to differ include, but are not limited to, changes in business mix, changes in payment terms (including extended payment terms to customers or from suppliers), early or late invoice payments from customers or to suppliers, the extent of receivables factoring, seasonal trends, the timing of revenue recognition and inventory purchases within the period, the impact of commodity costs and acquisition activity. DSO measures the average number of days our receivables are outstanding. DSO is calculated by dividing ending accounts receivable, net of allowance for doubtful accounts, by a 90-day average of net revenue. Compared to the three-month 51 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) period ending October 31, 2022, the decrease in DSO by 4 days in the current period was primarily due to higher early collections and receivables factoring. DOS measures the average number of days from procurement to sale of our product. DOS is calculated by dividing ending inventory by a 90-day average of cost of goods sold. Compared to the corresponding three-month period ending October 31, 2022, the DOS remained relatively flat. DPO measures the average number of days our accounts payable balances are outstanding. DPO is calculated by dividing ending accounts payable by a 90-day average of cost of goods sold. Compared to the corresponding three-month period ending October 31, 2022, the decrease in DPO by 15 days in the current period was primarily due to lower inventory purchases during the current period. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities increased by $1.2 billion in fiscal 2023, as compared to fiscal 2022. The increase was primarily due to payments made in connection with business acquisitions of $0.8 billion, higher cash utilized in net financial collateral activities of $0.5 billion, lower proceeds from maturities and sales of investments, net of purchases of $0.2 billion, offset by lower investment in property, plant and equipment of $0.3 billion, as compared to the prior-year period. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities decreased by $0.4 billion in fiscal 2023, as compared to fiscal 2022. The decrease was primarily due to an increase in proceeds from debt, net of issuance costs of $1.4 billion, offset by higher repayments of debt and short-term borrowings of $1.0 billion, as compared to the prior-year period. Free Cash Flow Free cash flow (“FCF”) represents cash flow from operations, less net capital expenditures (investments in property, plant and equipment (“PP&E”) less proceeds from the sale of PP&E), and adjusted for the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash. FCF increased by $0.4 billion in fiscal 2023, as compared to fiscal 2022, due to a favorable currency impact on cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash, lower cash utilized for investments in PP&E, moderated by lower cash provided from operations, as compared to the prior-year period. For more information on our FCF, refer to the section entitled “GAAP to non-GAAP Reconciliations” included in this MD&A. For more information on the impact from operating assets and liabilities to cash flows, see Note 7, “Balance Sheet Details,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II. Capital Resources Debt Levels We maintain debt levels that we establish through consideration of a number of factors, including cash flow expectations, cash requirements for operations, investment plans (including acquisitions), share repurchase activities, our cost of capital, and targeted capital structure. We maintain a revolving credit facility and two commercial paper programs, "the Parent Programs", and a wholly-owned subsidiary maintains a third program. There have been no changes to our commercial paper programs and revolving credit facility since October 31, 2022. In December 2020, we filed a shelf registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission that allows us to sell, at any time and from time to time, in one or more offerings, debt securities, preferred stock, common stock, warrants, depository shares, purchase contracts, guarantees or units consisting of any of these securities. The shelf registration statement expired in December 2023, and we expect to file a new shelf registration statement around the time of the filing of this report. 52 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Significant funding and liquidity activities for fiscal 2023 were as follows: Debt Issuances: • In March 2023 and June 2023, we issued $1.3 billion and $250 million, respectively, of 5.90% Senior Notes due October 1, 2024 • In March 2023, we issued $400 million of 6.102% Senior Notes due April 1, 2026 • In March and April 2023, we issued $643 million of asset-backed debt securities in five tranches with a weighted average interest rate of 5.59% and final maturity date of April 20, 2028 • In June 2023, we issued $550 million of 5.25% Senior Notes due July 1, 2028 • In September 2023, we issued $612 million of asset-backed debt securities in six tranches with a weighted average interest rate of 6.40% and final maturity date of July 21, 2031 . Debt Repayments: • In April 2023, we repaid $1.0 billion of 2.25% fixed rate Senior Notes • In October 2023, we repaid $1.25 billion of 4.45% Senior Notes • During fiscal 2023, we repaid $1.7 billion of the outstanding asset-backed debt securities. Our weighted-average interest rate reflects the average effective rate on our borrowings prevailing during the period and reflects the impact of interest rate swaps. For more information on our interest rate swaps, see Note 13, “Financial Instruments,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II. For more information on our available borrowing resources and the impact of operating assets and liabilities to cash flows, see Note 14, “Borrowings,” and Note 7, “Balance Sheet Details,” respectively, to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II. Cash Requirements and Commitments Long-term debt and interest payments on debt As of October 31, 2023, future principal payment obligations on our long-term debt including asset-backed debt securities totaled $11.7 billion of which $4.0 billion is due within one year. As of October 31, 2023, our finance lease obligations, including interest, was $48 million, of which $6 million is to be due within one year. For more information on our debt, see Note 14, “Borrowings,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II. As of October 31, 2023, future interest payments relating to our long-term debt is estimated to be approximately $3.5 billion, of which $0.6 billion is expected to be due within one year. We use interest rate swaps to mitigate the exposure of our fixed rate debt to changes in fair value resulting from changes in interest rates, or hedge the variability of cash flows in the interest payments associated with our variable-rate debt. The impact of our outstanding interest rate swaps as of October 31, 2023 was factored into the calculation of the future interest payments on long-term debt. Operating lease obligations We enter into various leases as a lessee for assets including office buildings, data centers, vehicles, and aviation. As of October 31, 2023, operating lease obligations, net of sublease rental income totaled $1.6 billion, of which $216 million is due within one year. These amounts included uncommenced operating leases as of October 31, 2023, and did not reflect imputed interest adjustments. For more information on our leases, see Note 8, “Accounting for Leases as a Lessee,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II. Unconditional purchase obligations Our unconditional purchase obligations are related principally to inventory purchases, software maintenance and support services and other items. Unconditional purchase obligations exclude agreements that are cancellable without penalty. As of October 31, 2023, unconditional purchase obligations totaled $1.6 billion, of which $580 million is due within one year. For more information on our unconditional purchase obligations, see Note 19, “Commitments,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II. 53 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Retirement Benefit Plan Funding In fiscal 2024, we anticipate making contributions of $182 million to our non-U.S. pension plans. Our policy is to fund pension plans to meet at least the minimum contribution requirements, as established by various authorities including local government and taxing authorities. Expected contributions and payments to our pension and post-retirement benefit plans are not considered as contractual obligations because they do not represent contractual cash outflows, as they are dependent on numerous factors which may result in a wide range of outcomes. For more information on our retirement and post-retirement benefit plans, see Note 4, “Retirement and Post-Retirement Benefit Plans,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II. Restructuring Plans As of October 31, 2023, we expect future cash payments of approximately $360 million in connection with our approved restructuring plans, which includes $240 million expected to be paid in fiscal 2024 and $120 million expected to be paid thereafter. Payments for restructuring activities are not considered as contractual obligations, because they do not represent contractual cash outflows and there is uncertainty as to the timing of these payments. For more information on our restructuring activities, see Note 3, “Transformation Programs,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II. Uncertain Tax Positions As of October 31, 2023, we had approximately $224 million of recorded liabilities and related interest and penalties pertaining to uncertain tax positions. These liabilities and related interest and penalties include $9 million expected to be paid within one year. For the remaining amount, we are unable to make a reasonable estimate as to when cash settlement with the tax authorities might occur due to the uncertainties related to these tax matters. Payments of these obligations would result from settlements with taxing authorities. For more information on our uncertain tax positions, see Note 6, “Taxes on Earnings,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As part of our ongoing business, we have not participated in transactions that generate material relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. We have third-party revolving short-term financing arrangements intended to facilitate the working capital requirements of certain customers. For more information on our third-party revolving short-term financing arrangements, see Note 7, “Balance Sheet Details,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of Part II. 54 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) GAAP TO NON-GAAP RECONCILIATIONS The following tables provide a reconciliation of each non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure for the periods presented: Reconciliation of GAAP gross profit and gross profit margin to non-GAAP gross profit and gross profit margin. Reconciliation of GAAP earnings from operations and operating profit margin to non-GAAP earnings from operations and operating profit margin. 55 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Reconciliation of GAAP net earnings and diluted net earnings per share to non-GAAP net earnings and diluted net earnings per share. (1)     Represents the amortization of basis difference adjustments related to the H3C divestiture. Fiscal 2023 included the Company's portion of intangible asset impairment charges from H3C of $8 million. Reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities to free cash flow. 56 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures The non-GAAP financial measures presented are net revenue on a constant currency basis (including at the business segment level), non-GAAP gross profit, non-GAAP gross profit margin, non-GAAP earnings from operations, non-GAAP tax rate, non-GAAP net earnings, non-GAAP diluted net earnings per share, and FCF. These non-GAAP financial measures are not computed in accordance with, or as an alternative to, generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to net revenue on a constant currency basis is net revenue. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP gross profit is gross profit. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP gross profit margin is gross profit margin. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP earnings from operations is earnings from operations. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP operating profit margin (non-GAAP earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue) is operating profit margin (earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue). The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP income tax rate is income tax rate. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP net earnings is net earnings. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP diluted net earnings per share is diluted net earnings per share. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to FCF is cash flow from operations. We believe that providing the non-GAAP measures stated above, in addition to the related GAAP measures provides greater transparency to the information used in our financial and operational decision making and allows the reader of our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements to see our financial results “through the eyes” of management. We further believe that providing this information provides investors with a supplemental view to understand our historical and prospective operating performance and to evaluate the efficacy of the methodology and information used by management to evaluate and measure such performance. Disclosure of these non-GAAP financial measures also facilitates comparisons of our operating performance with the performance of other companies in the same industry that supplement their GAAP results with non-GAAP financial measures that may be calculated in a similar manner. Economic Substance of non-GAAP Financial Measures Net revenue on a constant currency basis assumes no change to the foreign exchange rate utilized in the comparable prior-year period. This measure assists investors with evaluating our past and future performance, without the impact of foreign exchange rates, as more than half of our revenue is generated outside of the U.S. We believe that excluding the items mentioned below from the non-GAAP financial measures provides a supplemental view to management and our investors of our consolidated financial performance and presents the financial results of the business without costs that we do not believe to be reflective of our ongoing operating results. Exclusion of these items can have a material impact on the equivalent GAAP measure and cash flows thus limiting the use of such non-GAAP financial measures as analytic tools. See “Compensation for Limitations With Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures” section below for further information. Non-GAAP gross profit and non-GAAP gross profit margin are defined to exclude charges related to the amortization of initial direct costs, stock-based compensation expense, and disaster charges. See below for the reasons management excludes each item: • Amortization of initial direct costs represents the portion of lease origination costs incurred in prior fiscal years that do not qualify for capitalization under the new leasing standard. We exclude these costs as we elected the practical expedient under the new leasing standard. As a result, we did not adjust these historical costs to accumulated deficit.       We believe that most financing companies did not elect this practical expedient and therefore we exclude these costs.       This can have an impact on the equivalent GAAP measures and Financial Services segment results. • Stock-based compensation expense consists of equity awards granted based on the estimated fair value of those awards at grant date. Although stock-based compensation is a key incentive offered to our employees, we exclude these charges for the purpose of calculating these non-GAAP measures, primarily because they are non-cash expenses and our internal benchmarking analyses evidence that many industry participants and peers present non-GAAP financial measures excluding stock-based compensation expense. • Disaster (recovery) charges are primarily related to the exit of our businesses in Russia and Belarus, and include credit losses of financing and trade receivables, employee severance and abandoned assets. Disaster (recovery) charges also include direct costs or recovery of these costs related to COVID-19 as a result of Hewlett Packard Enterprise-hosted, co-hosted, or sponsored event cancellations and subsequent shift to a virtual format. While we present various items as 57 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) Disaster charges (recovery), we exclude Disaster charges (recovery) from these non-GAAP measures as the specific charges are non-recurring charges and not indicative of the operational performance of our business. Non-GAAP earnings from operations and non-GAAP operating profit margin consist of earnings from operations or earnings from operations as a percentage of net revenue excluding the items mentioned above and charges relating to the amortization of intangible assets, goodwill impairment, transformation costs and acquisition, disposition and other related charges. In addition to the items previously explained above, management excludes these items for the following reasons: • We incur charges relating to the amortization of intangible assets and exclude these charges for purposes of calculating these non-GAAP measures. Such charges are significantly impacted by the timing and magnitude of our acquisitions. We exclude these charges for the purpose of calculating these non-GAAP measures, primarily because they are noncash expenses and our internal benchmarking analyses evidence that many industry participants and peers present non-GAAP financial measures excluding intangible asset amortization. Although this does not directly affect our cash position, the loss in value of intangible assets over time can have a material impact on the equivalent GAAP earnings measure. • In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2022, Hewlett Packard Enterprise recorded an impairment charge for the goodwill associated with its HPC & AI and Software reporting units following the annual goodwill impairment review. Hewlett Packard Enterprise excludes these charges for purposes of calculating these non-GAAP measures to facilitate a more meaningful evaluation of  current operating performance and comparisons to operating performance in other periods. • Transformation costs represent net costs related to the (i) HPE Next Plan and (ii) Cost Optimization and Prioritization Plan and include restructuring charges, program design and execution costs, costs incurred to transform our IT infrastructure, net gains from the sale of real estate and any impairment charges on real estate identified as part of the initiatives. We exclude these costs as they are discrete costs related to two specific transformation programs that were announced in 2017 and 2020, respectively, as multi-year programs necessary to transform the business and IT infrastructure following material divestiture transactions in 2017 and in response to COVID-19 and an evolving product portfolio in fiscal 2020. The primary elements of the HPE Next and the Cost Optimization and Prioritization Plan have been substantially completed by October 31, 2023. The exclusion of the transformation program costs from our non-GAAP financial measures as stated above is to provide a supplemental measure of our operating results that does not include material HPE Next Plan and Cost Optimization and Prioritization Plan costs as we do not believe such costs to be reflective of our ongoing operating cost structure. Further as our transformation costs for these plans have materially fluctuated since 2017, have been materially declining since 2021 and we do not expect to incur material transformation costs related to these programs beyond fiscal 2023, we believe non-GAAP measures excluding these costs are useful to management and investors for comparing operating performance across multiple periods. • We incur costs related to our acquisition, disposition and other related charges. The charges are direct expenses, such as professional fees and retention costs, most of which are treated as non-cash or non-capitalized expenses. Charges may also include expenses associated with disposal activities including legal and arbitration settlements in connection with certain dispositions. We exclude these costs as these expenses are inconsistent in amount and frequency and are significantly impacted by the timing and nature of our acquisitions and divestitures. In addition, our internal benchmarking analyses evidence that many industry participants and peers present non-GAAP financial measures excluding these charges. Non-GAAP net earnings and non-GAAP diluted net earnings per share consist of net earnings or diluted net earnings per share excluding those same charges mentioned above, as well as other items such as tax indemnification and other adjustments, non-service net periodic benefit cost (credit), earnings from equity interests, impairment of investment, and adjustments for taxes. The Adjustments for taxes line item includes certain income tax valuation allowances and separation taxes, the impact of tax reform, structural rate adjustment, excess tax benefit from stock-based compensation, and adjustments for additional taxes or tax benefits associated with each non-GAAP item. In addition to the items previously explained, management excludes these items for the following reasons: • Tax indemnification and other adjustments are primarily related to changes to certain pre-separation and pre-divestiture tax liabilities and tax receivables for which we remain liable on behalf of the separated or divested business, but which may not be subject to indemnification. We exclude these income or charges and the associated tax impact for the purpose of calculating non-GAAP measures to facilitate an evaluation of our current operating performance and comparisons to operating performance in prior periods. 58 HEWLETT PACKARD ENTERPRISE COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Continued) • Non-service net periodic benefit cost (credit) includes certain market-related factors such as (i) interest cost, (ii) expected return on plan assets, (iii) amortization of prior plan amendments, (iv) amortized actuarial gains or losses, (v) the impacts of any plan settlements/curtailments and (vi) impacts from other market-related factors associated with our defined benefit pension and post-retirement benefit plans. These market-driven retirement-related adjustments are primarily due to the change in pension plan assets and liabilities which are tied to financial market performance. We exclude these adjustments for purposes of calculating non-GAAP measures and consider them to be outside the operational performance of the business. • Adjustment to earnings from equity interests includes the amortization of the basis difference in relation to the H3C divestiture and the resulting equity method investment in H3C. In the first fiscal quarter of 2023, this adjustment also included our portion of intangible asset impairment charges from H3C. We believe that eliminating this amount for purposes of calculating non-GAAP measures facilitates the evaluation of our current operating performance and comparisons to operating performance in prior periods. • In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2023, HPE recorded an impairment charge for an equity investment resulting from a permanent reduction of the investee’s assets. This adjustment was reflected in Interest and other, net in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings. We believe eliminating impairment of investment for the purposes of calculating non-GAAP measures facilitates the evaluation of our current operating performance and comparisons to operating performance in prior periods. • We utilize a structural long-term projected non-GAAP income tax rate in order to provide consistency across the interim reporting periods and to eliminate the effects of items not directly related to our operating structure that can vary in size and frequency. When projecting this long-term rate, we evaluated a three-year financial projection. The projected rate assumes no incremental acquisitions in the three-year projection period and considers other factors including our expected tax structure, our tax positions in various jurisdictions and current impacts from key legislation implemented in major jurisdictions where we operate. For fiscal 2023 and 2022, we used a non-GAAP income tax rate of 14%. The non-GAAP income tax rate could be subject to change for a variety of reasons, including the rapidly evolving global tax environment, significant changes in our geographic earnings mix including due to acquisition activity, or other changes to our strategy or business operations. We will re-evaluate its long-term rate as appropriate. We believe that making these adjustments for purposes of calculating non-GAAP measures, facilitates a supplemental evaluation of our current operating performance and comparisons to past operating results. FCF is a non-GAAP measure that is defined as cash flow from operations, excluding the impact of proceeds received in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021 from a one-time Itanium litigation judgment, less net capital expenditures (investments in PP&E less proceeds from the sale of PP&E), and adjusted for the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash. FCF does not represent the total increase or decrease in cash for the period. Our management and investors can use FCF for the purpose of determining the amount of cash available for investment in our businesses, repurchasing stock and other purposes as well as evaluating our historical and prospective liquidity. Compensation for Limitations With Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures These non-GAAP financial measures have limitations as analytical tools, and these measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. Some of the limitations in relying on these non- GAAP financial measures are that they can have a material impact on the equivalent GAAP earnings measures and cash flows, they may be calculated differently by other companies (limiting the usefulness of those measures for comparative purposes) and may not reflect the full economic effect of the loss in value of certain assets. We compensate for these limitations on the use of non-GAAP financial measures by relying primarily on our GAAP results and using non-GAAP financial measures only as a supplement. We also provide a reconciliation of each non-GAAP financial measure to its most directly comparable GAAP financial measure for this fiscal year and prior periods, and we encourage investors to review those reconciliations carefully. 59