********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Business and Operational Risks Deterioration of economic conditions could harm the Company’s business. The Company's business may be adversely affected by changes in national or global economic conditions, including inflation, interest rates, tax rates, availability of capital, energy availability and costs (including fuel surcharges), political developments, civil unrest, and the effects of governmental initiatives to manage economic conditions. Decreases in consumer spending rates and shifts in consumer product preferences could also negatively impact the Company. Volatility in financial markets and the deterioration of national and global economic conditions could impact the Company’s operations as follows: ▪ The financial stability of the Company's customers and suppliers may be compromised, which could result in challenges in collecting accounts receivable or non-performance by suppliers. ▪ Unfavorable economic conditions may lead customers and consumers to delay or reduce purchases of the Company's products. 6 ▪ Customer demand for products may not materialize to levels required to achieve the Company's anticipated financial results or may decline as distributors and retailers seek to reduce inventory positions if there is an economic downturn or economic uncertainty in key markets. ▪ The value of the Company's investments in debt and equity securities may decline, including most significantly the trading securities held as part of a rabbi trust to fund supplemental executive retirement plans and deferred income plans and the Company’s assets held in pension plans. ▪ Future volatility or disruption in the capital and credit markets could impair the Company's liquidity or increase costs of borrowing. ▪ The Company may be required to redirect cash flow from operations or explore alternative strategies, such as disposing of assets, to fulfill the payment of principal and interest on its indebtedness. The Company has no operations in Russia or Ukraine, yet it has experienced inflated fuel costs and supply chain shortages and delays due to the impact of the military conflict on the global economy. If this conflict, or others such as the Israel-Hamas war, escalates further, it could result in, among other things, additional supply chain disruptions, rising prices for oil and other commodities, volatility in capital markets and foreign exchange rates, rising interest rates, or heightened cybersecurity risks, any of which may adversely affect the Company's business. In addition, the effects of the ongoing conflict could heighten many of the other risk factors included in Item 1A. The Company utilizes hedging programs to manage its exposure to various market risks, such as commodity prices and interest rates, which qualify for hedge accounting for financial reporting purposes. Volatile fluctuations in market conditions could cause these instruments to become ineffective, which could require any gains or losses associated with these instruments to be reported in the Company’s earnings each period. These instruments may limit the Company’s ability to benefit from market gains if commodity prices and/or interest rates become more favorable than those secured under the Company’s hedging programs. The Company's goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are initially recorded at fair value and are not amortized, but are reviewed for impairment annually or more frequently if impairment indicators arise. Impairment testing requires judgment around estimates and assumptions and is impacted by factors such as revenue growth rates, operating margins, tax rates, royalty rates, and discount rates. An unfavorable change in these factors may lead to the impairment of goodwill and/or intangible assets. During fiscal 2023, an impairment was indicated for the Justin's ® trade name, resulting in an impairment charge of $28.4 million. Additionally, if a highly pathogenic human disease outbreak developed, such as COVID-19, it may negatively impact the global economy, demand for Company products, the supply chain, the Company's co-manufacturers, and/or the Company’s workforce availability including leadership, and the Company’s financial results could suffer. The Company has developed contingency plans to address infectious disease scenarios and the potential impact on its operations, and will continue to update these plans as necessary. There can be no assurance given, however, that these plans will be effective in eliminating the negative effects of any such diseases on the Company’s operating results. The Company’s operations are subject to the general risks associated with acquisitions, joint ventures, equity investments, and divestitures. The Company regularly reviews opportunities to support the Company’s strategic initiative of delivering long-term value to shareholders through acquisitions, joint ventures, and equity investments and to divest non-strategic assets. The Company has made several acquisitions, joint ventures, equity investments, and divestitures in recent years, including the acquisition of the Planters ® snack nuts business in fiscal 2021 and purchase of a minority interest in Garudafood in fiscal 2023. Potential risks associated with these transactions include the inability to consummate a transaction timely or on favorable terms, diversion of management's attention from other business concerns, loss of key employees and customers of current or acquired companies, inability to integrate or divest operations successfully, assumption of unknown liabilities, disputes with buyers, sellers, or partners, inability to obtain favorable financing terms, impairment charges if purchase assumptions are not achieved, and the inherent risks in entering markets or lines of business in which the Company has limited or no prior experience. Due to the nature of these arrangements, joint ventures and equity investments involve further risks, including the possibility that the Company is unable to execute business strategies and manage operations given limitations of the Company's control. Additionally, partners may become bankrupt, make business decisions that are inconsistent with the Company's goals, or block or delay necessary decisions. Acquisitions, joint ventures, or equity investments outside the U.S. may also present unique challenges and increase the Company's exposure to the risks associated with foreign operations. Any or all of these risks could impact the Company’s financial results and business reputation. The Company's level of indebtedness increased significantly to fund the purchase of the Planters ® snack nuts business and may continue to increase to fund future acquisitions, joint ventures, or equity investments. Higher levels of debt may, among other things, impact the Company's liquidity and increase the Company's exposure to negative fluctuations in interest rates. During fiscal 2023, an impairment was indicated for the Justin's ® trade name, resulting in an impairment charge of $28.4 million and the Company recorded a $7.0 million impairment charge related to a corporate venturing investment to recognize a decline in fair value not believed to be temporary. The Company is subject to disruption of operations at co-manufacturers, suppliers, logistics providers, customers, or other third-party service providers. ▪ Disruption of operations at co‑manufacturers, suppliers, or logistics providers have and may continue to impact the Company’s product and input supplies as well as the ability to distribute products. 7 ▪ Disruptions related to significant customers or sales channels has and could continue to result in a reduction in sales or change in the mix of products sold. ▪ Disruption in services from partners such as third-party service providers used to support various business functions such as benefit plan administration, payroll processing, information technology and cloud computing services could have an adverse effect on the Company's business. Disruptions of third-party providers have had and may continue to have an adverse effect on the Company's financial results. Actions taken to mitigate the impact of any potential disruption, including increasing inventory in anticipation of a potential production or supply interruption, may adversely affect the Company’s financial results. Additionally, labor-related challenges have caused disruptions for many of these providers and may continue to impact the Company's ability to receive inputs or distribute products. The Company may not realize the anticipated cost savings or operating efficiencies associated with strategic initiatives. The Company operates in the highly competitive food industry and is subject to volatile cost inputs. Strategic initiatives are implemented to achieve a profitable cost structure, operate efficiently, better serve customers, and optimize cash flow. These initiatives may focus on opportunities to improve the procurement, manufacturing, and logistics within the Company’s supply chain as well as general and administrative processes. A failure or delay in implementing the improvements associated with these strategic initiatives could adversely impact the Company’s results, ability to meet its long-term growth expectations, and ability to fund future initiatives. The Company began an enterprise transformation and modernization initiative in the second half of fiscal 2023 to provide cost savings and operating efficiencies by fiscal 2026. If this initiative does not achieve the expected financial impact or is not completed in a timely manner, the Company’s financial results and ability to meet its long-term growth expectations could be adversely impacted. The Company is subject to the loss of a material contract. The Company is a party to several supply, distribution, contract packaging and other material contracts. The loss of a material contract or failure to obtain new material contracts could adversely affect the Company’s financial results. The Company may be adversely impacted if the Company is unable to protect information technology systems against, or effectively respond to, cyber attacks or security breaches. Information technology systems are an important part of the Company’s business operations. In addition, the Company increasingly relies upon third-party service providers for a variety of business functions, including cloud-based services. Cyber incidents are occurring more frequently across U.S. industries and are being made by groups and individuals with a wide range of motives and expertise. Continued high-profile data security incidents at other companies evidence an external environment that is becoming increasingly hostile. From time to time, the Company has experienced, and may experience in the future, breaches of its security measures due to human error, malfeasance, insider threats, system errors or vulnerabilities or other irregularities, none of which have been material to date. Remote work arrangements may bring additional information technology and data security risks. Although the Company has programs in place related to business continuity, disaster recovery, and information security initiatives to maintain the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of systems, business applications, and customer information, the Company may not be able to anticipate or implement effective preventive measures against all potential cybersecurity threats, especially because the techniques used change frequently and because attacks can originate from a wide variety of sources, both domestic and foreign. Cybersecurity risk is increasingly difficult to identify and quantify and cannot be fully mitigated because of the rapidly evolving nature of the threats, targets, and consequences. In addition, the Company is in the midst of multi-year data and technology transformation projects to achieve better analytics, customer service, and process efficiencies. The projects, including modernizing the order-to-cash process, are expected to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of certain financial and business transaction processes and the underlying systems environment. Multiple phases of these projects have already been implemented and additional phases are expected to be implemented in the upcoming years. These implementations are a major undertaking from a financial, management, and personnel perspective and may prove to be more difficult, costly, or time consuming than expected, and there can be no assurance that these projects will be beneficial to the extent anticipated. Deterioration of labor relations, labor availability or increases in labor costs could harm the Company’s business. As of October 29, 2023, the Company employed approximately 20,000 people worldwide, of which approximately 20 percent were represented by labor unions, principally the United Food and Commercial Workers Union. Union contracts at two of the Company's manufacturing facilities, covering approximately 250 employees, will expire during fiscal 2024. A significant increase in labor costs or a deterioration of labor relations at any of the Company’s facilities or co-manufacturing facilities resulting in work slowdowns or stoppages could harm the Company’s financial results. Labor and skilled labor availability challenges could continue to have an adverse effect on the Company's business. 8 Industry Risks The Company’s operations are subject to the general risks of the food industry. The food products manufacturing industry is subject to the risks posed by: ▪ food spoilage; ▪ food contamination caused by disease-producing organisms or pathogens, such as Listeria monocytogenes , Salmonella , and pathogenic E coli .; ▪ food allergens; ▪ nutritional and health-related concerns; ▪ federal, state, and local food processing controls; ▪ consumer product liability claims; ▪ product tampering; and ▪ the possible unavailability and/or expense of liability insurance. The pathogens that may cause food contamination are found generally in livestock and in the environment and thus may be present in the Company's products. These pathogens can also be introduced to products as a result of improper handling by customers or consumers. The Company does not have control over handling procedures once products have been shipped for distribution. If one or more of these risks were to materialize, the Company’s brand and business reputation could be negatively impacted. In addition, revenues could decrease, costs of doing business could increase, and the Company’s operating results could be adversely affected. Outbreaks of disease among livestock and poultry flocks could harm the Company’s revenues and operating margins. The Company is subject to risks associated with the outbreak of disease in pork and beef livestock, and poultry flocks, including African swine fever (ASF), Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy (BSE), pneumo-virus, Porcine Circovirus 2 (PCV2), Porcine Reproduction & Respiratory Syndrome (PRRS), Foot-and-Mouth Disease (FMD), Porcine Epidemic Diarrhea Virus (PEDv), and Highly Pathogenic Avian Influenza (HPAI). The outbreak of such diseases could adversely affect the Company’s supply of raw materials, increase the cost of production, reduce utilization of the Company’s harvest facilities, and reduce operating margins. The impact of global climate change may increase these risks due to changes in weather or migratory patterns which may result in certain types of diseases occurring more frequently or with more intense effects. Additionally, the outbreak of disease may hinder the Company’s ability to market and sell products both domestically and internationally. In recent years, the outbreak of ASF has impacted hog herds in China, Asia, Europe, and the Caribbean. If an outbreak of ASF were to occur in the U.S., the Company's supply of hogs and pork could be materially impacted. HPAI was detected within the Company's turkey supply chain during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2023 and first quarter of fiscal 2024. The impact of HPAI has reduced and will continue to reduce production volume in the Company's turkey facilities into fiscal 2024. The Company is continuing to monitor the situation and will take the appropriate actions to protect the health of the turkeys across the supply chain. The Company has developed business continuity plans for various disease scenarios and will continue to update these plans as necessary. There can be no assurance given, however, that these plans will be effective in eliminating the negative effects of any such diseases on the Company’s operating results. Fluctuations in commodity prices and availability of raw materials and other inputs could harm the Company’s earnings. The Company’s results of operations and financial condition are largely dependent upon the cost and supply of pork, poultry, beef, feed grains, and nuts as well as supplies, energy and other inputs and the selling prices for many of the Company's products, which are determined by constantly changing market forces of supply and demand. The Company takes a balanced approach to sourcing pork raw materials, including hogs purchased for the Austin, Minnesota processing facility, long-term supply agreements for pork, and spot market purchases of pork. This approach ensures a more stable supply of raw materials while minimizing extreme fluctuations in costs over the long-term. This may result, in the short-term, in higher or lower live hog costs compared to the cash spot market. Market-based pricing on certain product lines, and lead time required to implement pricing adjustments, may prevent all or part of these cost increases from being recovered, and these higher costs could adversely affect the Company's short-term financial results. The Company raises turkeys and contracts with turkey growers to meet its raw material requirements for whole birds and processed turkey products. Results in these operations are affected by the cost and supply of feed grains, which fluctuate due to climate conditions, production forecasts, and supply and demand conditions at local, regional, national, and worldwide markets. The Company attempts to manage some of its short-term exposure to fluctuations in feed prices by forward buying, using futures contracts, and pursuing pricing advances. However, these strategies may not be adequate to overcome sustained increases in market prices due to alternate uses for feed grains or other changes in these market conditions. 9 The Company may be subject to decreased availability or less favorable pricing for nuts, tomatoes, avocados, or other produce if poor growing conditions have a negative effect on agricultural productivity. Reductions in crop size or quality due to unfavorable growing conditions may have an adverse effect on the Company’s results. The supplies of natural and organic proteins may impact the Company’s ability to ensure a continuing supply of these products. To mitigate this risk, the Company partners with multiple long-term suppliers. International trade barriers and other restrictions or disruptions could result in decreased foreign demand and increased domestic supply of proteins, thereby potentially lowering prices. The Company occasionally utilizes in-country production to limit this exposure. Market demand for the Company’s products may fluctuate. The Company faces competition from producers of alternative meats and protein sources, including pork, beef, turkey, chicken, fish, nuts, nut butters, whey, and plant-based proteins. The factors on which the Company competes include: ▪ price; ▪ product quality and attributes; ▪ brand identification; ▪ breadth of product line; and ▪ customer service. Demand for the Company’s products is also affected by competitors’ promotional spending, the effectiveness of the Company’s advertising and marketing programs, and consumer perceptions. Failure to identify and react to changes in food trends such as sustainability of product sources and animal welfare could lead to, among other things, reduced demand for the Company’s brands and products. The Company may be unable to compete successfully on any or all of these factors in the future. Damage to the Company’s reputation or brand image can adversely affect its business. Maintaining and continually enhancing the perception of the Company’s reputation and brands is critical to business success. The Company’s reputation and brands have been in the past and could in the future be adversely impacted by a number of factors, including unfavorable consumer perception related to events or rumors, adverse publicity, and negative information disseminated through social and digital media. Failure to maintain, extend, and expand the Company’s reputation or brand image could adversely impact operating results. Climate change, or legal, regulatory or market measures to address climate change, could have an adverse impact on the Company’s business and results of operations. There is growing concern that carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere may have an adverse impact on global temperatures, weather patterns, and the frequency and severity of extreme weather and natural disasters. If such climate change has a negative impact on agricultural productivity, the Company may have decreased availability or less favorable pricing for the raw materials necessary for its operations. Climate change may also cause decreased availability or less favorable pricing for water, which could have an adverse effect on the Company’s operations and supply chain. In addition, natural disasters and extreme weather, including those caused by climate change, could cause disruptions in the Company’s operations and supply chain. The increasing concern over climate change may also result in greater local, state, federal, and foreign legal requirements, including requirements to limit greenhouse gas emissions or conserve water usage. If such requirements are enacted, the Company could experience significant cost increases in its operations and supply chain. The Company has developed and publicly announced goals to reduce its impact on the environment such as the 20 by 30 Challenge and the recently announced validation of its greenhouse gas reduction targets by the Science Based Targets initiative. The Company's ability to achieve these goals is subject to numerous factors and conditions, many of which are outside of its control. Examples include, among others, evolving regulatory requirements, disclosure frameworks, and methodologies for reporting data. Failure to accomplish goals set by the Company related to climate change or meet expectations of various Company stakeholders may cause decreased demand for the Company’s products and have an adverse effect on results of operations. Legal and Regulatory Risks The Company’s operations are subject to the general risks of litigation. The Company is involved on an ongoing basis in litigation arising in the ordinary course of business. Trends in litigation may include class actions involving employees, consumers, competitors, suppliers, shareholders, or others, and claims relating to product liability, contract disputes, antitrust regulations, intellectual property, advertising, labeling, wage and hour laws, employment practices or environmental matters. Neither litigation trends nor the outcomes of litigation can be predicted with certainty and adverse litigation trends and outcomes could negatively affect the Company’s financial results. 10 Government regulation, present and future, exposes the Company to potential sanctions and compliance costs that could adversely affect the Company’s business. The Company’s operations are subject to extensive regulation by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, the U.S. Department of Agriculture, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, federal and state taxing authorities and other federal, state, and local authorities which oversee workforce immigration, taxation, animal welfare, food safety, and the processing, packaging, storage, distribution, advertising, and labeling of the Company’s products. The Company’s manufacturing facilities and products are subject to ongoing inspection by federal, state and local authorities. Claims or enforcement proceedings could be brought against the Company in the future. The availability of government inspectors due to a government furlough could also cause disruption to the Company’s manufacturing facilities. Additionally, the Company is subject to new or modified laws, regulations, and accounting standards. The Company’s failure or inability to comply with such requirements could subject the Company to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, recalls or seizures, as well as potential criminal sanctions. A federal district court ruling has had a negative impact on harvest capacity and labor costs. Harvest facilities the Company uses are negotiating to resolve the situation and expect to reach a solution, but harvest capacity and labor costs may continue to be negatively impacted until a solution is reached. There can be no assurance a solution will be reached, in which case the negative impacts of the ruling would continue. The Company is subject to stringent environmental regulations and potentially subject to environmental litigation, proceedings, and investigations. The Company’s past and present business operations and ownership and operation of real property are subject to stringent federal, state, and local environmental laws and regulations pertaining to the discharge of materials into the environment and the handling and disposition of wastes (including solid and hazardous wastes) or otherwise relating to protection of the environment. Compliance with these laws and regulations, as well as any modifications, is material to the Company’s business. Some of the Company’s facilities have been in operation for many years and, over time, the Company and other prior operators of these facilities may have generated and disposed of wastes that now may be considered hazardous. Future discovery of contamination of property underlying or in the vicinity of the Company’s present or former properties or manufacturing facilities and/or waste disposal sites could require the Company to incur additional expenses related to additional investigation, assessment or other requirements. The occurrence of any of these events, the implementation of new laws and regulations or stricter interpretation of existing laws or regulations could adversely affect the Company’s financial results. The Company’s foreign operations pose additional risks to the Company’s business. The Company operates its business and markets its products internationally. The Company’s foreign operations are subject to the risks described above, as well as risks related to fluctuations in currency values, foreign currency exchange controls, compliance with foreign laws, compliance with applicable U.S. laws, including the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and other economic or political uncertainties. International sales are subject to risks related to general economic conditions, imposition of tariffs, quotas, trade barriers and other restrictions, enforcement of remedies in foreign jurisdictions and compliance with applicable foreign laws, and other economic and political uncertainties. All of these risks could result in increased costs or decreased revenues, which could adversely affect the Company’s financial results.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

Executive Overview Fiscal 2023: The Company achieved its second consecutive year of net sales in excess of $12 billion in fiscal 2023. Net sales were $12.1 billion, declining 3 percent compared to the prior year, as the benefit from pricing actions to mitigate inflationary pressures was more than offset by the impact of lower volumes in the Retail and International segments and lower net pricing in certain categories, such as bacon, reflecting raw material commodity deflation. Volume declined for the full year, primarily due to declines in commodity pork availability as a result of the Company's new pork supply agreement and lower turkey supply in the first half of the year due to the impacts of HPAI. Segment profit declined 11 percent, as higher results in the Foodservice segment were more than offset by significantly lower results in the Retail and International segments. Net earnings declined 21 percent due to lower segment profit and the pre-tax impact of an adverse arbitration ruling of $68.3 million. Adjusted net earnings (1) — excluding the impact of the adverse arbitration ruling, non-cash impairment charges, and costs associated with the Company's transformation and modernization initiative — declined 12 percent. Diluted net earnings per share and adjusted diluted net earnings per share (1) for fiscal 2023 were $1.45 and $1.61, respectively, compared to $1.82 last year. Segment profit for the Foodservice segment increased due to improved mix across the portfolio. Retail segment profit declined significantly for the full year, driven primarily by lower volumes, unfavorable mix, and higher operating expenses, partially offset by the benefit from pricing actions across the portfolio and higher equity in earnings from MegaMex Foods, LLC (MegaMex Foods). International segment profit declined due to lower sales in China and lower turkey commodity sales. The Company again reinvested into the business through capital expenditures and returned a record amount of cash to shareholders in the form of dividends. Capital expenditures in fiscal 2023 were $270 million, including investments in new production capabilities for retail and foodservice pepperoni and an expansion for the SPAM ® family of products. The Company continues to prioritize investments in growth, innovation, cost savings, automation, and maintenance. The annual dividend for 2024 will be $1.13 per share, representing an increase of 3 percent and marking the 58th consecutive year of dividend increases. During fiscal 2023, the Company purchased a 30% common stock interest in Garudafood, a food and beverage company in Indonesia. This investment expands the Company's presence in Southeast Asia and supports the global execution of the snacking and entertaining strategic priority. The Company obtained this minority interest in Garudafood for a purchase price of $426 million, including associated transaction costs. The Company funded this transaction with cash on hand. Fiscal 2024 Outlook (2) : The Company continues to navigate through a dynamic operating environment characterized by slowing consumer demand, inflationary pressures, and headwinds in its turkey business. Net sales growth of 1 percent to 3 percent is expected and assumes volume growth in key categories, higher brand support and innovation, a benefit from incremental pricing actions, and the current assumptions for raw material input costs. From a bottom-line perspective, diluted net earnings per share are expected to be $1.43 to $1.57 and adjusted diluted net earnings per share (1) are expected to be $1.51 to $1.65. Earnings are expected to decline in the first half of the year due to the impact from lower turkey markets, lower volumes in the Retail segment, expenses associated with the transformation and modernization initiative, and softness in the Company's China business. Segment profit growth from all three segments is expected in the back half of the year as these pressures abate and as benefits from the transformation and modernization initiative are realized. Major risks to the outlook include incremental inflationary pressures, significantly lower turkey markets than expected, and the impact of deteriorating macroeconomic conditions on the Company's customers, consumers, and operators. The Company remains in a strong financial position due to its consistent cash flow, liquidity, and strong balance sheet. The Company plans to continue to support the business through increased marketing and advertising investments for its leading brands as well as investments into its production capabilities, including converting the Barron, Wisconsin, plant into a value-added facility to support growth across the portfolio. The Company is also expanding capacity for high-demand Planters ® snack nuts items. Returning cash to shareholders in the form of dividends remains a top priority for the Company. Consistent with the plan outlined at its recent investor day, the Company expects fiscal 2024 to be a year of investment and remains focused on its strategic priorities, executing on its transformation and modernization initiative, fueling its innovation pipeline, and exiting the year with momentum in its business segments. For fiscal 2024, the Company expects a modest benefit to net earnings from its transformation and modernization initiative. 15 A detailed review of the Company's fiscal 2023 performance compared to fiscal 2022 appears in the following section. A detailed review of fiscal 2022 performance compared to fiscal 2021 is also provided due to the change in reportable segments which occurred in the first quarter of fiscal 2023. (1)    See the "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" section below for a description of the Company's use of measures not defined by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). (2)    All forward-looking comparisons for fiscal 2024 are comparing fiscal 2023 GAAP figures to projected fiscal 2024 GAAP figures, unless otherwise noted. Results of Operations OVERVIEW The Company is a processor of branded and unbranded food products for retail, foodservice, deli, and commercial customers. The Company transitioned to a new operating model in the first quarter of fiscal 2023 and now reports its results in the following three reportable segments: The Retail segment consists primarily of the processing, marketing, and sale of food products sold predominantly in the retail market. This segment also includes the results from the Company’s MegaMex Foods, LLC joint venture. The Foodservice segment consists primarily of the processing, marketing, and sale of food and nutritional products for foodservice, convenience store, and commercial customers. The International segment processes, markets, and sells Company products internationally. This segment also includes the results from the Company’s international joint ventures, equity method investments, and royalty arrangements. Prior period segment results have been retrospectively recast to reflect the new reportable segments. The Company’s fiscal year consisted of 52 weeks in fiscal years 2023 and 2022 and 53 weeks in fiscal year 2021. Fiscal year 2024 will consist of 52 weeks. FISCAL YEARS 2023 AND 2022 CONSOLIDATED RESULTS Net Earnings and Diluted Earnings Per Share (1)    See the "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" section below for a description of the Company's use of measures not defined by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Volume and Net Sales Volume for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2023 was comparable with last year, as higher turkey volumes in each segment were offset by lower Retail volumes in the convenient meals and proteins and the snacking and entertaining verticals. Net sales declined in the fourth quarter, as higher Foodservice segment sales and the benefit from higher turkey volumes were more than offset by lower volumes in the Retail segment and continued pressure in the International segment. Fiscal 2023 marked the second consecutive year of net sales in excess of $12 billion. Net sales declined for the full year, as the benefit from pricing actions to mitigate inflationary pressures was more than offset by the impact of lower volumes in the Retail and International segments and lower net pricing in certain categories, such as bacon, reflecting raw material commodity 16 deflation. The primary drivers of lower volume in fiscal 2023 were declines in commodity pork availability as a result of the Company's new pork supply agreement and lower turkey supply in the first half of the year from the impacts of HPAI. In fiscal 2024, the Company expects sales growth, which assumes benefits from modestly higher volumes, growth in key categories, higher brand support and innovation, incremental pricing actions, and the current assumptions for raw material costs. Risks to this outlook include slowing consumer demand and greater-than-expected pricing headwinds in the turkey business. Cost of Products Sold Cost of products sold for the fourth quarter and full year of fiscal 2023 decreased due to lower sales. On a volume basis, cost of products sold increased 2 percent in fiscal 2023, driven primarily by inflationary pressures stemming from, among other inputs, packaging, logistics, and labor. In fiscal 2024, costs are expected to moderate relative to the high levels of inflation the business has absorbed since the beginning of fiscal 2021. Raw material input costs for pork, beef, and feed are anticipated to remain volatile and above historical levels. The Company expects its transformation and modernization initiative to begin delivering modest cost savings in fiscal 2024, targeting packaging, logistics, and production costs. Gross Profit Consolidated gross profit as a percent of net sales for the fourth quarter and full year of fiscal 2023 decreased, driven primarily by unfavorable mix in the Retail and International segments and the persistent impact of inflationary pressures. Pricing actions helped mitigate some of the impact from inflationary pressures. Compared to fiscal 2022, gross profit as a percent of net sales for the fourth quarter and full year increased for the Foodservice segment but declined for the Retail and International segments. In fiscal 2024, the Company expects gross profit as a percent of net sales to be comparable to fiscal 2023. Incremental cost inflation and unfavorable sales mix pose the largest risks to this outlook. Selling, General, and Administrative (SG&A) (1)    See the "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" section below for a description of the Company's use of measures not defined by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). SG&A expenses for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2023 increased as higher professional service expense related to the Company's transformation and modernization initiative and higher advertising expense were partially offset by lower employee-related expenses. For full year fiscal 2023, the increase in SG&A expenses and SG&A expenses as a percent of net sales is attributed to an adverse arbitration ruling totaling $68.3 million. Adjusted SG&A expenses as a percent of net sales (1) for fiscal 2023 were comparable to the prior year. Advertising investments in fiscal 2023 were $160 million, representing a 2% increase compared to fiscal 2022. In fiscal 2024, the Company intends to continue investing in its leading brands and for full year advertising expense to increase compared to the prior year. Research and development continues to be a vital part of the Company's strategy to grow existing brands and expand into new branded items. Research and development expenses were $33.7 million in fiscal 2023, compared to $34.7 million in fiscal 2022. 17 Equity in Earnings of Affiliates Equity in earnings of affiliates for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2023 decreased, resulting from the $7.0 million impairment of a corporate venturing investment. Equity in earnings of affiliates for the full year of fiscal 2023 increased due to significantly higher results for MegaMex Foods, reflecting a benefit from pricing actions and lower avocado input costs. The Company accounts for its majority-owned operations under the consolidation method. Investments in which the Company owns a minority interest, and for which there are no other indicators of control, are accounted for under the equity or cost method. These investments, including balances due to or from affiliates, are included on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position as Investments in Affiliates. The composition of this line item as of October 29, 2023, was as follows: Goodwill and Intangible Impairment An impairment charge related to the Justin's ® trade name of $28.4 million was recorded in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2023. Interest and Investment Income and Interest Expense Interest and investment income decreased in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2023 primarily due to higher pension costs. Interest and investment income decreased for the full year of fiscal 2023 due to higher pension costs, partially offset by increased interest income and improved performance on the rabbi trust. Interest expense increased in fiscal 2023 due to the impact of an interest rate swap. Effective Tax Rate The effective tax rate for fiscal 2023 reflects a benefit related to the deduction for foreign-derived intangible income. The fiscal 2022 effective tax rate included a benefit for stock option exercises. For additional information, refer to Note N - Income Taxes of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company expects the effective tax rate in fiscal 2024 to be between 21.0 and 23.0 percent. 18 SEGMENT RESULTS Net sales and segment profit for each of the Company’s reportable segments are set forth below. The Company is an integrated enterprise, characterized by substantial intersegment cooperation, cost allocations, and sharing of assets. Therefore, the Company does not represent that these segments, if operated independently, would report the profit and other financial information shown below. Additional segment financial information can be found in Note P - Segment Reporting of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Volume for the full year of fiscal 2023 was negatively impacted by lower fresh pork availability resulting from the Company's new pork supply agreement (primarily impacting the first quarter) and lower turkey volumes due to the impacts of HPAI in the Company's vertically integrated turkey supply chain (primarily impacting the first half). Retail (1)    See the "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" section below for a description of the Company's use of measures not defined by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). For the fourth quarter of fiscal 2023, volume and net sales growth from the value-added meats, emerging brands and bacon verticals was more than offset by declines in the convenient meals and proteins and the snacking and entertaining verticals. In addition to continued recovery across the Jennie-O ® turkey portfolio, items such as Applegate ® natural and organic meats, Hormel ® Black Label ® bacon, Chi-Chi's ® and La Victoria ® salsas, Corn Nuts ® products and Hormel ® Square Table™ entrees grew volume and net sales during the quarter. Net sales declines continued to be partially attributed to the difficult comparison from high levels of demand for Skippy ® spreads last year. Full year fiscal 2023 net sales declined primarily due to lower volumes from the convenient meals and proteins and value-added meats verticals, declines in the snacking and entertaining vertical and lower market-driven pricing on raw bacon items. Segment profit declined for the fourth quarter due to lower sales, unfavorable mix and increased brand investments. Additionally, a non-cash impairment charge of $28.4 million was recorded in the fourth quarter associated with the Justin's ® trade name. For fiscal 2023, segment profit declined due to lower volumes, unfavorable mix, and higher operating expenses, partially offset by the benefit from pricing actions across the portfolio, higher equity in earnings from MegaMex Foods, and improved bacon volumes. In fiscal 2024, the Company expects volume and net sales from its Retail segment to be comparable to the prior year. Volume growth in key categories, higher brand support and innovation, and a benefit from incremental pricing actions are expected to be positive catalysts for the business. Earnings are expected to decline compared to the prior year, driven primarily by commodity headwinds in the Company's turkey business. Risks to this outlook include a further slowing in consumer demand and greater-than-expected pricing headwinds in the turkey business. 19 Foodservice Volume and net sales for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2023 increased, driven by a significant recovery across the Jennie-O ® turkey portfolio and strong demand for premium bacon, pizza toppings and premium breakfast sausage. Additionally, volume and net sales increased for the Cafe H ® , Austin Blues ® and Hormel ® Cure 81 ® brands. Net sales declined for full year fiscal 2023 primarily due to lower net pricing in certain categories, reflecting raw material commodity deflation and lower turkey and fresh pork volumes. For the fourth quarter, segment profit increased due to the contribution from higher volumes and improved mix. Segment profit increased during fiscal 2023 due to improved mix across the portfolio. In fiscal 2024, the Company anticipates higher volume, net sales and segment profit from its Foodservice segment compared to the prior year. Risks to this outlook include a softening of foodservice industry demand, lower-than-expected raw material input costs (negatively impacting net sales), and higher-than-expected operating costs. International As anticipated, net sales declined for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2023 as a result of lower branded export volumes and lower sales in China, primarily related to the retail business. Volume growth was driven by low-margin turkey and commodity fresh pork. For the full year of fiscal 2023, net sales declined primarily due to lower SPAM ® luncheon meat exports, lower sales in China, and lower commodity turkey prices. Segment profit for the fourth quarter declined significantly due to continued softness in China and lower branded export demand, partially offset by the contribution from the Company's minority investment in Garudafood. Segment profit for fiscal 2023 declined significantly due to lower sales in China, lower commodity turkey sales, and lower branded export margins. In fiscal 2024, the Company expects a rebound in its International segment, including higher net sales and segment profit. This recovery is expected to be driven by improvement across the business, including from its multinational businesses in China and Brazil, partnership in the Philippines, and branded exports. Risks to this outlook include continued softness in China and commodity headwinds impacting the export business. 20 Unallocated Income and Expense The Company does not allocate deferred compensation, investment income, interest expense, or interest income to its segments when measuring performance. The Company also retains various other income and unallocated expenses at the corporate level. Equity in Earnings of Affiliates is included in segment profit; however, earnings attributable to the Company’s corporate venturing investments and noncontrolling interests are excluded. For the fourth quarter of fiscal 2023, net unallocated expense increased as a result of higher pension costs, higher professional service expenses related to the Company's transformation and modernization initiative, and from the impairment of a corporate venturing investment. In addition to these drivers, net unallocated expense for fiscal 2023 increased as a result of an adverse arbitration ruling totaling $68.3 million. (1) Non-GAAP Financial Measures This filing includes measures of financial performance that are not defined by U.S. GAAP. The Company utilizes these non-GAAP measures to understand and evaluate operating performance on a consistent basis. These measures may also be used when making decisions regarding resource allocation and in determining incentive compensation. The Company believes these non-GAAP financial measures provide useful information to investors because they facilitate year-over-year comparison and provide additional information about trends in the Company’s operations. Non-GAAP measures are not intended to be a substitute for U.S. GAAP measures in analyzing financial performance. These non-GAAP measures are not in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies. Adjusted SG&A expenses as a percent of net sales excludes the impact of an adverse arbitration ruling and certain costs associated with the transformation and modernization initiative. Adjusted diluted net earnings per share excludes the impact of an adverse arbitration ruling, impairment charges associated with the Justin's ® trade name and a corporate venturing investment, and costs associated with the transformation and modernization initiative. The tax impact was calculated using the effective tax rate for the quarter in which the expense was incurred. The non-GAAP financial measure of adjusted segment profit for the Retail segment excludes the impact of the impairment charge associated with the Justin's ® trade name. The Company's fiscal 2024 outlook for adjusted diluted net earnings per share is a non-GAAP financial measure that excludes, or has otherwise been adjusted for, items impacting comparability, including estimated charges associated with the transformation and modernization initiative. The Company's strategic investments in the transformation and modernization initiative are expected to cease at the end of the investment period, are not expected to recur in the foreseeable future, and are not considered representative of the Company's underlying operating performance. The Company provides earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA) because these measures are useful to management and investors as indicators of operating strength relative to prior years and are commonly used to benchmark the Company’s performance. 21 The following tables show the calculations to reconcile from the GAAP measures to the non-GAAP financial measures. ADJUSTED SELLING, GENERAL, AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES AS A PERCENT OF NET SALES (NON-GAAP) AND ADJUSTED DILUTED NET EARNINGS PER SHARE (NON-GAAP) 22 ADJUSTED SEGMENT PROFIT (NON-GAAP) ADJUSTED DILUTED NET EARNINGS PER SHARE OUTLOOK (NON-GAAP) EBIT AND EBITDA (NON-GAAP) 23 FISCAL YEARS 2022 AND 2021 CONSOLIDATED RESULTS A detailed review of fiscal 2022 performance compared to fiscal 2021 is provided due to the change in reportable segments which occurred in the first quarter of fiscal 2023. Net Earnings and Diluted Earnings Per Share Volume and Net Sales (1)    See the "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" section below for a description of the Company's use of measures not defined by U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Consistent with the Company's long-term strategy to better align resources to value-added growth, the overall decline in volume for the fourth quarter and full year of fiscal 2022 was primarily due to lower commodity sales resulting from the Company's new pork supply agreement, which was effective January 1, 2022. Net sales decreased for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2022 due to reduced commodity sales and the impact from an additional week of sales last year. Organic net sales for the fourth quarter increased, led by growth from the Retail and Foodservice segments. The Retail segment benefited from pricing actions effective at the beginning of the fourth quarter. Fiscal 2022 marked the third consecutive year of record sales for the Company. Record net sales were primarily driven by the inclusion of the Planters ® snack nuts business and growth from the Foodservice segment. All segments implemented pricing actions during the fiscal year to combat inflationary pressures. Cost of Products Sold Cost of products sold for the fourth quarter decreased, resulting from lower sales due to the additional week in fiscal 2021. For fiscal 2022, cost of products sold increased due to inflationary pressures stemming from raw materials, packaging, freight, labor, and other inputs. The inclusion of the Planters ® snack nuts business was also a driver of higher costs for the full year. Gross Profit Consolidated gross profit as a percent of net sales for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2022 increased primarily due to improved profitability from the Retail segment. For fiscal 2022, gross profit as a percent of net sales increased primarily due to improved profitability from the Foodservice and International segments, the inclusion of the Planters ® snack nuts business, and pricing actions to help mitigate inflationary pressures across all segments. Gross profit as a percent of net sales for fiscal 2022 also benefited from the reduction of lower margin commodity sales resulting from the Company's pork supply agreement that was new in fiscal 2022. 24 Compared to the prior year, gross profit as a percent of net sales for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2022 increased for the Retail segment and declined for the other segments. For fiscal 2022, gross profit as a percent of net sales increased for Foodservice and International segments and decreased modestly for the Retail segment. All business segments were negatively impacted by broad-based inflationary pressures. Selling, General, and Administrative (SG&A) SG&A expenses for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2022 declined primarily due to the additional week in fiscal 2021. SG&A expenses for fiscal 2022 increased due to the inclusion of the Planters ® snack nuts business and higher marketing and advertising investments. As a percent of net sales, SG&A expenses declined for the full year, driven by record sales and disciplined cost management. Advertising investments in fiscal 2022 were $157 million, representing a 14 percent increase compared to fiscal 2021. Research and development continued to be a vital part of the Company's strategy to grow existing brands and expand into new branded items. Research and development expenses were $34.7 million in fiscal 2022, compared to $33.6 million in fiscal 2021. Equity in Earnings of Affiliates Equity in earnings of affiliates for the fourth quarter and full year of fiscal 2022 decreased significantly due to lower results for MegaMex Foods. MegaMex Foods results were negatively impacted by inflationary pressures, including significantly higher costs for avocados. The Company accounts for its majority-owned operations under the consolidation method. Investments in which the Company owns a minority interest, and for which there are no other indicators of control, are accounted for under the equity or cost method. These investments, along with receivables from other affiliates, are included on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position as Investments in Affiliates. The composition of this line item as of October 30, 2022, was as follows: Interest and Investment Income and Interest Expense Interest and investment income decreased in the fourth quarter and full year of fiscal 2022 primarily due to losses on the rabbi trust. Interest expense in fiscal 2022 reflects the full year impact of debt issued in 2021. 25 Effective Tax Rate The effective tax rate for fiscal 2021 included the benefit of one-time state tax discrete items. For additional information, refer to Note N - Income Taxes of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. SEGMENT RESULTS Net sales and segment profit for each of the Company’s reportable segments are set forth below. The Company is an integrated enterprise, characterized by substantial intersegment cooperation, cost allocations, and sharing of assets. Therefore, the Company does not represent that these segments, if operated independently, would report the profit and other financial information shown below. Additional segment financial information can be found in Note P - Segment Reporting of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Retail Net sales for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2022 decreased due to the impact from an additional week in the fourth quarter of last year and lower commodity sales. These declines more than offset strong demand for Skippy ® peanut butter and the impact of pricing actions across the global flavors and convenient meals and proteins verticals. For fiscal 2022, net sales increased primarily due to the inclusion of the Planters ® snack nuts business and the impact from strategic pricing actions. Consistent with the Company's long-term strategy to better align resources to value-added growth, the overall decline in volume for the fourth quarter and full year of fiscal 2022 was primarily due to lower commodity sales resulting from the Company's new pork supply agreement, in addition to supply impacts on the Company's vertically integrated supply chain as a result of HPAI. For the fourth quarter of fiscal 2022, segment profit increased due to higher commodity turkey prices, improved value-added mix, and pricing actions to offset the impact from continued inflationary pressures. Fiscal 2022 segment profit increased, as the contribution from the Planters ® snack nuts business and higher commodity turkey prices more than offset the impact of inflationary pressures and lower results from MegaMex Foods. 26 Foodservice Volume and net sales declined in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2022 due to the impact from an additional week in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021 and lower turkey sales. Partially offsetting these declines, products such as Hormel ® Natural Choice ® meats, Hormel ® Bacon 1 TM fully cooked bacon and Hormel ® Fire Braised TM flame-seared meats grew volume and sales for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2022. Fiscal 2022 volume and net sales increased due to strong results across the portfolio as the industry continued to recover from pandemic-related declines and from the inclusion of the Planters ® snack nuts business in the convenience channel. The decline in segment profit for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2022 was driven by the impact from an additional week in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021 and higher operational, logistics and raw material costs. Segment profit growth for fiscal 2022 was primarily due to significantly higher net sales as described above. International In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2022, volume and net sales growth from the SPAM ® and Skippy ® brands and the multinational businesses were more than offset by lower commodity turkey, fresh pork and refrigerated export sales. For fiscal 2022, volume and sales declined as a result of lower commodity sales due to the Company's new pork supply agreement, lower turkey sales as a result of the supply impacts on the Company's vertically integrated supply chain from HPAI, and ongoing export logistics challenges. Segment profit declined in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2022, as growth in China did not overcome the impact of lower commodity turkey sales, lower branded export margins, and higher logistics expenses for the export business. Segment profit for fiscal 2022 declined due in large part to lower results from the export business, which was negatively impacted by logistics challenges and meaningfully higher freight expenses. Unallocated Income and Expense The Company does not allocate deferred compensation, investment income, interest expense, or interest income to its segments when measuring performance. The Company also retains various other income and unallocated expenses at the corporate level. Equity in Earnings of Affiliates is included in segment profit; however, earnings attributable to the Company’s corporate venturing investments and noncontrolling interests are excluded. For the fourth quarter of fiscal 2022, net unallocated expense increased slightly as unfavorable investment performance was mostly offset with lower corporate expense. For fiscal 2022, net unallocated expense decreased due to one-time acquisition costs and accounting adjustments of $43 million related to the acquisition of the Planters ® snack nuts business in fiscal 2021. The overall decline was partially offset by higher interest expense and lower investment income net of deferred compensation. 27 Non-GAAP Financial Measures The non-GAAP financial measure of adjusted diluted earnings per share is presented to provide investors with additional information to facilitate the comparison of past and present operations. This measurement excludes the impact of the acquisition-related expenses and accounting adjustments related to the acquisition of the Planters ® snack nuts business. The tax impact was calculated using the effective tax rate for the quarter in which the expenses and accounting adjustments were incurred. The non-GAAP financial measures of organic volume and organic net sales are presented to provide investors with additional information to facilitate the comparison of past and present operations. Organic volume and organic net sales exclude the impacts of the acquisition of the Planters ® snack nuts business (June 2021) in the Retail, Foodservice, and International segments. Organic volume and organic net sales also exclude the impact of the 53rd week in fiscal 2021 as approximated based on average weekly sales for the fourth quarter (fourteen weeks) ended October 31, 2021. The Company provides earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA) because these measures are useful to management and investors as indicators of operating strength relative to prior years and are commonly used to benchmark the Company’s performance. The Company believes these non-GAAP financial measures provide useful information to investors because they are the measures used to evaluate performance on a comparable year-over-year basis. Non-GAAP measures are not intended to be a substitute for U.S. GAAP measures in analyzing financial performance. These non-GAAP measures are not in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies. The following tables show the calculations to reconcile from the GAAP measures to the non-GAAP adjusted measures. ORGANIC VOLUME (NON-GAAP) 28 ORGANIC NET SALES (NON-GAAP) EBIT AND EBITDA (NON-GAAP) LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES When assessing liquidity and capital resources, the Company evaluates cash and cash equivalents, short-term and long-term investments, income from operations, and borrowing capacity. Cash Flow Highlights Cash and cash equivalents decreased in fiscal 2023. The Company’s income from operations was sufficient to cover dividend payments and capital expenditures. Cash on hand was also used to fund an investment in Garudafood, a food and beverage company in Indonesia. Additional details related to significant drivers of cash flows are provided below. 29 Cash Provided by (Used in) Operating Activities ▪ Cash flows from operating activities were largely impacted by changes in operating assets and liabilities. – Accounts receivable decreased $49 million in fiscal 2023 primarily due to timing of sales and more efficient collections. The $28 million decrease in fiscal 2022 is largely due to timing of collections. – In fiscal 2023, inventory decreased $36 million as a result of strategic inventory management efforts implemented to address elevated inventory levels. The $352 million increase in fiscal 2022 is due to inflation in raw material and other input costs and maintaining higher inventory levels. – Prepaid expenses and other assets increased $69 million in fiscal 2023 primarily due to cash collateral requirements for the Company's hedging programs and timing of payments related to infrastructure improvement commitments. The increase in fiscal 2022 of $15 million is primarily due to the timing of payments. – Accounts payable and accrued expenses decreased $141 million in fiscal 2023 related to the timing of payments and lower promotional and incentive compensation expenses. In fiscal 2022, accounts payable and accrued expenses decreased $15 million related to the timing of payments. Cash Provided by (Used in) Investing Activities ▪ In fiscal 2023, the Company acquired a minority interest in Garudafood for $426 million, including associated transaction costs. ▪ Capital expenditures were $270 million and $279 million in fiscal 2023 and 2022, respectively. The largest projects for fiscal 2023 included a new production line for the SPAM ® family of products in Dubuque, Iowa, initial phases of the transition from harvest to value-added capacity in Barron, Wisconsin, wastewater infrastructure in Austin, Minnesota, and pepperoni capacity in Omaha, Nebraska. The largest spend in fiscal 2022 also included the capacity expansion for SPAM ® and pepperoni as well as for bacon in Austin, Minnesota. Cash Provided by (Used in) Financing Activities ▪ Cash dividends paid to the Company’s shareholders are an ongoing financing activity for the Company with payments totaling $593 million in fiscal 2023 and $558 million in fiscal 2022. The dividend rate was $1.10 per share in fiscal 2023 compared to $1.04 per share in fiscal 2022. ▪ During fiscal 2023, the Company repurchased 310,000 shares for $12 million. Sources and Uses of Cash The Company's balanced business model, with diversification across raw material inputs, channels, and categories, provides stability in ever changing economic environments. The Company maintains a disciplined capital allocation strategy by applying a waterfall approach, which focuses first on required uses of cash such as capital expenditures to maintain facilities, dividend returns to investors, mandatory debt repayments, and pension obligations. Next, the Company looks to strategic items in support of growth initiatives such as capital projects, acquisitions, additional dividend increases, and working capital investments. Finally, the Company evaluates opportunistic uses including incremental debt repayment and share repurchases. The Company believes its anticipated income from operations, cash on hand, borrowing capacity under the current credit facility, and access to capital markets will be adequate to meet all short-term and long-term commitments. The Company continues to look for opportunities to make investments and acquisitions that align with its strategic priorities. The Company's ability to leverage its balance sheet through the issuance of debt provides the flexibility to pursue strategic opportunities which may require additional funding. Dividend Payments The Company remains committed to providing returns to investors through cash dividends. The Company has paid 381 consecutive quarterly dividends since becoming a public company in 1928. The annual dividend rate for fiscal 2024 will increase to $1.13 per share, representing the 58th consecutive annual dividend increase. Capital Expenditures Capital expenditures are first allocated to required maintenance and then growth opportunities based on the needs of the business. Capital expenditures supporting growth opportunities in fiscal 2024 are expected to focus on projects related to value-added capacity, infrastructure, and new technology. Capital expenditures for fiscal 2024 are estimated to be $280 million. Debt As of October 29, 2023, the Company’s outstanding debt included $3.3 billion of fixed rate unsecured senior notes due in fiscal 2024, 2028, 2030, and 2051 with interest payable semi-annually. During fiscal 2023, the Company made $55 million of interest payments and expects to make $55 million of interest payments in fiscal 2024 on these notes. In fiscal 2023, $950 million of the notes was reclassified as Current Maturities of Long-term Debt on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. See Note L - Long-Term Debt and Other Borrowing Arrangements of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Borrowing Capacity As a source of short-term financing, the Company maintains a $750 million unsecured revolving credit facility. The maximum commitment under this credit facility may be further increased by $375 million, generally by mutual agreement of the lenders and 30 the Company, subject to certain customary conditions. Funds drawn from this facility may be used by the Company to refinance existing debt, for working capital or other general corporate purposes, and for funding acquisitions. The lending commitments under the facility are scheduled to expire on May 6, 2026, at which time the Company will be required to pay in full all obligations then outstanding. As of October 29, 2023, the Company had no outstanding draws from this facility. Debt Covenants The Company’s debt and credit agreements contain customary terms and conditions including representations, warranties, and covenants. These debt covenants limit the ability of the Company to, among other things, incur debt for borrowed money secured by certain liens, engage in certain sale and leaseback transactions, and require maintenance of certain consolidated leverage ratios. As of October 29, 2023, the Company was in compliance with all covenants and expects to maintain compliance in the future. Cash Held by International Subsidiaries As of October 29, 2023, the Company had $164 million of cash and cash equivalents held by international subsidiaries. The Company maintains all undistributed earnings as permanently reinvested. The Company evaluates the balance and uses of cash held internationally based on the needs of the business. Share Repurchases The Company is authorized to repurchase 3,677,494 shares of common stock as part of an existing plan approved by the Company’s Board of Directors. During fiscal 2023, the Company repurchased 310,000 shares for $12 million. The Company continues to evaluate share repurchases as part of its capital allocation strategy. Commitments The following table shows a schedule of the Company's material cash commitments as of October 29, 2023: (1) The Company commits to purchase quantities of livestock, grain, and other raw materials to ensure a steady supply of production inputs. The Company uses hedging programs to manage price risk associated with a portion of the future grain and hog commitments. The purchase commitments listed above do not reflect the impact of the hedging instruments that manage the risk of fluctuating commodity markets. See Note F - Derivatives and Hedging and Note J - Commitments and Contingencies of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (2)    As of October 29, 2023, the Company’s outstanding debt included unsecured senior notes due in fiscal 2024, 2028, 2030, and 2051. The Company is required by certain covenants in its debt agreements to maintain specified levels of financial ratios and financial position. See Note L - Long-Term Debt and Other Borrowing Arrangements of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (3)    Represents pension and other post-retirement benefit payments related to the Company's unfunded defined benefit plans. Benefit payments reflect expectations for the next ten years as estimates are not readily available beyond that point. See Note G - Pension and Other Post-Retirement Benefits of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. (4)    See Note K - Leases of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional detail. Lease payments exclude $31.2 million of legally binding minimum lease payments for leases signed but not yet commenced. (5)    Includes obligations related to infrastructure improvements supporting various manufacturing facilities and a media advertising agreement. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements As of October 29, 2023, the Company had $48.6 million of standby letters of credit issued on its behalf. The standby letters of credit are primarily related to the Company’s self-insured workers compensation programs. This amount includes revocable standby letters of credit totaling $2.7 million for obligations of an affiliated party that may arise under workers compensation claims. Letters of credit are not reflected on the Consolidated Statements of Financial Position. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES Management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is based upon the Company's consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires the Company to make estimates, judgments, and assumptions that can 31 have a meaningful effect on the reporting of consolidated financial statements. See Note A - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. Critical accounting estimates are defined as those reflective of significant judgments, estimates and uncertainties, which may result in materially different results under different assumptions and conditions. The Company believes the following are its critical accounting estimates: Revenue Recognition Description: The Company recognizes sales at the point in time when the performance obligation has been satisfied and control of the product has transferred to the customer. Obligations for the Company are usually fulfilled once shipped product is received or picked up by the customer. Revenue is recorded net of applicable provisions for discounts, returns, and allowances. Judgments and Uncertainties: The Company offers various sales incentives to customers and consumers. Incentives offered off-invoice include prompt pay allowances, will call allowances, spoilage allowances, and temporary price reductions. These incentives are recognized as reductions of revenue at the time control is transferred. Coupons are used as an incentive for consumers to purchase various products. The coupons reduce revenue at the time they are offered, based on estimated redemption rates. Promotional contracts are performed by customers to promote the Company’s products to consumers. These incentives reduce revenue at the time of performance through direct payments and accrued promotional funds. Accrued promotional funds are unpaid liabilities for promotional contracts in process or completed at the end of a quarter or fiscal year. Accruals with customers are based on defined performance. Sensitivity of Estimate to Change: The liability relating to these agreements is based on a review of the outstanding contracts on which performance has taken place but which the promotional payments relating to such contracts remain unpaid as of the end of the fiscal year. The level of customer performance and the historical spend rate versus contracted rates are estimates used to determine these liabilities. Income Taxes Description: The Company records income taxes in accordance with the liability method of accounting. Deferred taxes are recognized for the estimated taxes ultimately payable or recoverable based on enacted tax law. Changes in enacted tax rates are reflected in the tax provision as they occur. Judgments and Uncertainties: The Company computes its provision for income taxes based on the statutory tax rates and tax planning opportunities available to it in the various jurisdictions in which it operates. Judgment is required in evaluating the Company’s tax positions and determining its annual tax provision. Sensitivity of Estimate to Change: While the Company considers all of its tax positions fully supportable, the Company is occasionally challenged by various tax authorities regarding the amount of taxes due. The Company recognizes a tax position in its financial statements when it is more likely than not the position will be sustained upon examination, based on its technical merits. The position is then measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. A change in judgment related to the expected ultimate resolution of uncertain tax positions will be recognized in earnings in the quarter of such change. As of October 29, 2023, the Company had $21.5 million of unrecognized tax benefits, including estimated interest and penalties, recorded in Other Long-term Liabilities. Business Combinations Description: The Company accounts for business combinations using the acquisition method of accounting. The Company allocates the purchase price of an acquired business to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based upon their estimated fair values at the acquisition date with the excess recorded as Goodwill. Judgments and Uncertainties: The acquisition method of accounting requires the Company to make significant estimates and assumptions regarding the fair value of the acquired assets. Fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired is determined through established valuation techniques, such as the income, cost or market approach. The Company may utilize third-party valuation experts to assist in the fair value determination. The fair value measurements of identifiable intangibles are based on available historical information and expectations and assumptions about the future. Significant assumptions used to value identifiable intangible assets may include projected revenue growth, estimated cash flows, discount rates, royalty rates, and other factors. Determining the useful life of an intangible asset also requires judgment. Certain acquired brands are expected to have indefinite lives based on their history and the Company’s intent to continue to support and build the brands. Other acquired assets, such as customer relationships, are expected to have determinable useful lives. Sensitivity of Estimate to Change: The Company did not have any business combinations in fiscal 2023 and 2022. On June 7, 2021, the Company acquired the Planters ® snack nuts business for $3.4 billion and used a third-party valuation specialist to perform the valuation of the assets acquired. Refer to Note B - Acquisitions and Divestitures of the Notes to the Consolidated 32 Financial Statements for additional information. The Company acquired trade names which were determined to have a fair value of $712.0 million. Key assumptions used to calculate the fair value of the trade names using a relief from royalty model included revenue projections, royalty rates, and discount rates. The Company also identified customer relationships which were assigned a fair value of $51.0 million using the distributor method under the income approach. Assumptions in valuing this asset included future earnings projections, customer attrition rate, and discount rate, among others. The Company believes the estimates applied are based on reasonable assumptions, but which are inherently uncertain. As a result, actual results may differ from the assumptions and judgments used to determine fair value of the assets acquired, which could result in material impairment losses in the future. Goodwill and Other Indefinite-Lived Intangibles Description: Other indefinite-lived intangible assets primarily include trade names obtained through business acquisitions which are originally recorded at their estimated fair values at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is the residual after allocating the purchase price to net assets acquired and is allocated across the Company’s reporting units: Retail, Foodservice, and International. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized but tested annually for impairment, or more frequently if impairment indicators arise. If the carrying value of these assets exceeds the estimated fair value, the asset is considered impaired which requires a reduction to earnings. See Note A - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details regarding the Company’s procedures. Judgments and Uncertainties: Determining whether impairment indicators exist and estimating the fair value of the Company’s goodwill reporting units and intangible assets for impairment testing requires significant judgment. Indefinite-lived trade names are evaluated for impairment using an income approach utilizing the relief from royalty method. Significant assumptions include royalty rate, annual projected revenue, discount rate, and estimated long-term growth rate. Estimating the fair value of goodwill reporting units using the discounted cash flow model requires management to make assumptions and projections of future cash flows, revenues, earnings, discount rates, long-term growth rates, and other factors. Sensitivity of Estimate to Change: The assumptions used to assess impairment consider historical trends, macroeconomic conditions, and projections consistent with the Company’s operating strategy. Changes in these estimates can have a significant impact on the assessment of fair value which could result in material impairment losses. As a result of organizational changes in the first quarter of fiscal 2023, the Company conducted an assessment of its operating segments and reporting units. Based on this analysis, goodwill was reallocated using the relative fair value approach. Prior to the goodwill reallocation, an impairment assessment was performed which indicated no impairment to the Company's reporting units. Subsequent to the goodwill reallocation, the Company completed quantitative impairment testing on each new reporting unit. The estimated fair value of each goodwill reporting unit exceeded the calculated carrying value by more than 50 percent. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2023, the Company performed a qualitative assessment of goodwill. No goodwill impairment charges were recorded as a result of the assessment. Based on the quantitative testing performed in the first quarter of fiscal 2023, a 10 percent decline in projected cash flows or 10 percent increase in the discount rate would not result in an impairment. The Company also performed a qualitative impairment assessment for indefinite-lived intangible assets in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2023. As a result of the qualitative assessment, it was determined that it was more likely than not the Justin's ® trade name was impaired, and the Company performed a quantitative impairment test. As a result of the quantitative impairment test, a $28.4 million intangible asset impairment charge was recorded for the Justin's ® trade name. No other impairment charges were recorded as a result of the qualitative assessment. The Company last completed quantitative testing for the other indefinite-lived intangible assets in fiscal 2021 and the estimated fair value of each indefinite-lived intangible asset exceeded the carrying value by more than 10 percent. Based on the fiscal 2021 testing, a 10 percent decline in forecasted revenue or 10 percent increase in the discount rate would not result in a material impairment. Based on the fiscal 2023 quantitative impairment test, a 10 percent decline in forecasted revenue or 10 percent increase in the discount rate used for the Justin's ® trade name would not result in additional material impairment. Pension and Other Post-Retirement Benefits Description: The Company sponsors several defined benefit pension and post-retirement health care benefit plans and recognizes the associated expenses, assets, and liabilities. Judgments and Uncertainties: In accounting for these employment costs and the associated benefit obligations, management must make a variety of assumptions and estimates including mortality rates, discount rates, compensation increases, expected return on plan assets, health care cost trend rates, and interest crediting rates. The Company considers historical data as well as current facts and circumstances when determining these estimates. Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is based on fair value, composition of the asset portfolio, historical long-term rates of return, and estimates of future performance. Mortality and discount rates used are based on actuarial tables elected at each fiscal year-end. The Company uses third-party specialists to assist in the determination of these estimates and the calculation of certain employee benefit expenses and the outstanding obligation. 33 Benefit plan assets are stated at fair value. Due to the lack of readily available market prices, private equity investments are valued by models using a combination of available market data and unobservable inputs that consider earnings multiples, discounted cash flows, and other qualitative and quantitative factors. Other benefit plan investments are measured at Net Asset Value (NAV) per share of the fund's underlying investments as a practical expedient. Sensitivity of Estimate to Change: The assumed discount rate, expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, rate of future compensation increase, interest crediting rate, and the health care cost trend rate have a significant impact on the amounts reported for the benefit plans. For the year ended October 29, 2023, the Company had $1.2 billion and $186.2 million in pension benefit obligation and post-retirement benefit obligation, respectively. For fiscal 2024, the Company expects pension benefit costs of $44.3 million and post-retirement benefit costs of $10.5 million. A one-percentage-point change in these rates would have the following effects: As of October 29, 2023, the Company had $79.4 million and $638.4 million of private equity and NAV investments, respectively. These valuations are subject to judgments and assumptions of the funds which may prove to be incorrect, resulting in risks of incorrect valuation of these investments. The Company seeks to mitigate these risks by evaluating the appropriateness of the funds’ judgments and assumptions by reviewing the financial data included in the funds’ financial statements. The Company also holds quarterly meetings with the investment adviser to review fund performance, which include comparisons to the relevant indices. On an annual basis, the Company performs pricing tests on certain underlying investments to gain additional assurance of the reliability of values received from the fund manager. See Note G - Pension and Other Post-Retirement Benefits of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information.