********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Our business operations could be affected by factors that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider not to be material to our operations, so you should not consider the risks disclosed in this section to necessarily represent a complete statement of all risks and uncertainties. The Company believes that the following risks could have a material adverse impact on our business, reputation, financial results, financial condition and/or the trading price of our common stock. The order in which these factors appear does not necessarily reflect their relative importance or priority. COMPANY RISKS Our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and liquidity may be negatively impacted by the effects of disease outbreaks, epidemics, pandemics, or similar wide-spread public health concerns and other natural disasters . The COVID-19 pandemic and the responses of governments to it had, and may again have, a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows and may result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and liquidity. Our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and liquidity may be negatively impacted by the effects of disease outbreaks, epidemics, pandemics, similar wide-spread public health concerns and other natural disasters. The COVID-19 pandemic has had, and continues to have, an unprecedented impact on society, worldwide economic activity, and the health care sector (particularly, the dental market). As a global healthcare solutions company, the COVID-19 pandemic and the governmental responses to it had, and may again have, a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows and may result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and liquidity. Even after the COVID-19 pandemic has begun to subside, we may again experience material adverse impacts to our business, results of operations and cash flows as a result of, among other things, its global economic impact, including any recession that may occur in the future, or a prolonged period of economic slowdown or the reluctance of patients to return for elective dental or medical care. The impacts and potential impacts from the COVID-19 pandemic include, but are not limited to: • Significant volatility in supply, demand and selling prices for personal protective equipment (PPE), COVID-19 tests and other COVID-19 related products. Available supply, customer demand and selling prices for PPE, COVID-19 tests and other COVID-19 related products fluctuated in fiscal 2022 and we expect such volatility to continue for the duration of the COVID-19 pandemic. This has resulted in inventory reserves, fluctuating margins and increased revenue related to such products. The volatility in sales of COVID-19 test kits has moderated, albeit at a significantly lower level of sales compared with 2021, resulting in us recording an inventory obsolescence reserve of $17 million for COVID-19 test kits during the year ended December 31, 2022 and we expect further declines in sales volumes. Our estimates for supply, demand and selling prices are inherently uncertain and if supply, demand, selling prices or other market dynamics significantly fluctuate in the future beyond our current assumptions, additional inventory reserves may be required, margins may be reduced and/or revenue may decline for such products, each which could materially adversely impact our business, results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, governmental policies designed to reduce the transmission of COVID-19 and variants thereof could once again lead to the closure of dental offices or deferral of elective procedures and wellness exams by medical and dental patients. Such previous closures and restrictions impacted our customers’ spending with us and had, and if reinstated may again have, a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. Although we believe that most practices currently are able to access adequate supply, we still may be unable to supply our customers with the specific brand and/or quantity of certain PPE products, COVID-19 tests and other COVID-19 related products they demand, which may lead to our customers seeking alternative sources of supply. Healthcare professionals’ inability to obtain a sufficient quantity and/or brand of certain PPE, COVID-19 tests and other COVID-19 related products would adversely impact our business, results of operations and cash flows, and could materially adversely affect our financial condition and liquidity; 26 • Reduction in Peoples’ Ability and Willingness to be in Public. Restrictions recommended by several public health organizations, and implemented, from time to time, by federal, state and local governments, to slow and limit the transmission of COVID-19 and variants thereof has caused and may in the future cause some people to be less willing to go to elective medical and dental appointments, which could again materially adversely affect demand for our products. A lengthened period of materially suppressed demand could again cause material adverse impacts on our business, results of operations and cash flows and could materially adversely affect our financial condition and liquidity; • Negative impact on our workforce and impact of adapted business practices. The spread of COVID-19 and variants thereof caused us to modify our business practices (including employee travel, employee work locations, and physical participation in meetings, events and conferences), and we may take further actions as may be required by government authorities or our customers or that we determine are in the best interests of our employees. As the COVID-19 pandemic continues to unfold, we continue to evaluate appropriate actions for our business. At the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, many of our office-based workers shifted abruptly to working remotely. As the COVID-19 pandemic has evolved, we have modified our work arrangements to implement more flexible working arrangements for our office-based workers, including permanent work from home, hybrid and office-based arrangements. Implementing these modified business practices to include remote work arrangements could have a negative impact on employee morale, strain our business continuity plans, introduce operational risk (including but not limited to cybersecurity risks), and impair our ability to efficiently operate our business; • Significant changes in political conditions. Significant changes in political conditions in markets in which we purchase and distribute our products have occurred and are expected to continue at least during the pendency of the pandemic, including quarantines, governmental or regulatory actions, closures or other restrictions that limit or close our operating facilities, restrict our employees’ ability to travel or perform necessary business functions, or otherwise constrain the operations of our business partners, suppliers or customers, which may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and liquidity; • Volatility in the financial markets. Volatility in the financial markets may materially adversely affect the availability and cost of credit to us; The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic may also exacerbate other risks discussed below, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us. We are dependent upon third parties for the manufacture and supply of a significant volume of our products. We obtain a significant volume of the products we distribute from third parties, with whom we generally do not have long-term contracts. While there is typically more than one source of supply, some key suppliers, in the aggregate, supply a significant portion of the products we sell. In 2022, our top 10 health care distribution suppliers and our single largest supplier accounted for approximately 28% and 4%, respectively, of our aggregate purchases. Because of our dependence upon such suppliers, our operations are subject to the suppliers’ ability and willingness to supply products in the quantities that we require, and the risks include delays caused by interruption in production based on conditions outside of our control, including a supplier’s failure to comply with applicable government requirements (which may result in product recalls and/or cessation of sales) or an interruption in the suppliers’ manufacturing capabilities. In the event of any such interruption in supply, we would need to identify and obtain acceptable replacement sources on a timely basis. There is no guarantee that we would be able to obtain such alternative sources of supply on a timely basis, if at all, and an extended interruption in supply, particularly of a high sales volume product, could result in a significant disruption in our sales and operations, as well as damage to our relationships with customers and our reputation. In addition, certain of our suppliers have had their ability to service certain markets restricted or negatively impacted because of allegations of forced labor in their supply chain. Forced labor legislation affecting the supply chain has increased around the world, and the United States recently passed the Uyghur Forced Labor Prevention Act. Our supply chain could be materially disrupted if our suppliers fail to comply with, or are unable to satisfy our demand for products, as a result of applicable forced labor legislation and regulations. 27 Our future growth (especially for our technology and value-added services segment) is dependent upon our ability to develop or acquire and maintain and protect new products and technologies that achieve market acceptance with acceptable margins. Our future success depends on our ability to timely develop (or obtain the right to sell) competitive and innovative (particularly for our technology and value-added services segment) products and services and to market them quickly and cost-effectively. Our ability to anticipate customer needs and emerging trends and develop or acquire new products, services and technologies at competitive prices requires significant resources, including employees with the requisite skills, experience and expertise, particularly in our technology segment, including dental practice management, patient engagement and demand creation software solutions. The failure to successfully address these challenges could materially disrupt our sales and operations. Additionally, our software and e-services products, like software products generally, may contain undetected errors or bugs when introduced or as new versions are released. Any such defective software may result in increased expenses related to the software and could adversely affect our relationships with customers as well as our reputation. With respect to certain software and e-services that we develop, we rely primarily upon copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as contractual and common law protections and confidentiality obligations. We cannot provide assurance that such legal protections will be available, adequate or enforceable in a timely manner to protect our software or e-services products. Risks inherent in acquisitions, dispositions and joint ventures could offset the anticipated benefits. One of our business strategies has been to expand our domestic and international markets in part through acquisitions and joint ventures and we expect to continue to make acquisitions and enter into joint ventures in the future. Such transactions require significant management attention, may place significant demands on our operations, information systems, legal, regulatory, compliance-functions and financial resources, and there is risk that one or more may not succeed. We cannot be sure, for example, that we will achieve the benefits of revenue growth that we expect from these acquisitions or joint ventures or that we will avoid unforeseen additional costs, taxes or expenses. Our ability to successfully implement our acquisition and joint venture strategy depends upon, among other things, the following: • the availability of suitable acquisition or joint venture candidates at acceptable prices; • our ability to consummate such transactions, which could potentially be prohibited due to U.S. or foreign antitrust regulations; • the liquidity of our investments and the availability of financing on acceptable terms; • our ability to retain customers or product lines of the acquired businesses or joint ventures; • our ability to retain, recruit and incentivize the management of the companies we acquire; and • our ability to successfully integrate these companies’ operations, services, products and personnel with our culture, management policies, legal, regulatory and compliance policies, cybersecurity systems and policies, internal procedures, working capital management, financial and operational controls and strategies. Furthermore, some of our acquisitions and future acquisitions may give rise to an obligation to make contingent payments or to satisfy certain repurchase obligations, which payments could have material adverse impacts on our financial results individually or in the aggregate. Additionally, when we decide to sell assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or executing alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely manner, which could delay the accomplishment of our strategic objectives. Alternatively, we may dispose of assets or a business at a price or on terms that are less than we had anticipated. Dispositions may also involve continued financial involvement in a divested business, such as through transition service agreements, indemnities or other current or contingent financial obligations. Under these arrangements, performance by the acquired or divested business, or other conditions outside our control, could affect our future financial results. Certain provisions in our governing documents and other documents to which we are a party may discourage third parties from seeking to acquire us that might otherwise result in our stockholders receiving a premium over the market price of their shares. 28 The provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us, may discourage acquisition bids and may impact the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions, among other things require (i) the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 60% of the shares of common stock entitled to vote to approve a merger, consolidation, or a sale, lease, transfer or exchange of all or substantially all of our assets; and (ii) the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of our common stock entitled to vote to (a) remove a director; and (b) to amend or repeal our by-laws, with certain limited exceptions. In addition, certain of our employee incentive plans provide for accelerated vesting of stock options and other awards upon termination without cause within two years following a change in control, or grant the plan committee discretion to accelerate awards upon a change of control. Further, certain agreements between us and our executive officers provide for increased severance payments and certain benefits if those executive officers are terminated without cause by us or if they terminate for good reason, in each case within two years following a change in control or within ninety days prior to the effective date of the change in control or after the first public announcement of the pendency of the change in control. Adverse changes in supplier rebates or other purchasing incentives could negatively affect our business. The terms on which we purchase or sell products from many suppliers may entitle us to receive a rebate or other purchasing incentive based on the attainment of certain growth goals. Suppliers may reduce or eliminate rebates or incentives offered under their programs, or increase the growth goals or other conditions we must meet to earn rebates or incentives to levels that we cannot achieve. Increased competition either from generic or equivalent branded products could result in us failing to earn rebates or incentives that are conditioned upon achievement of growth goals. Additionally, factors outside of our control, such as customer preferences, consolidation of suppliers or supply issues, can have a material impact on our ability to achieve the growth goals established by our suppliers, which may reduce the amount of rebates or incentives we receive. The occurrence of any of these events could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or operating results. Sales of corporate brand products entail additional risks, including the risk that such sales could adversely affect our relationships with suppliers. We offer certain corporate brand products that are available exclusively from us. The sale of such products subjects us to the risks generally encountered by entities that source, market and sell corporate brand products, including but not limited to potential product liability risks, mandatory or voluntary product recalls, potential supply chain and distribution chain disruptions, and potential intellectual property infringement risks. Any failure to adequately address some or all of these risks could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. In addition, an increase in the sales of our corporate brand products may negatively affect our sales of products owned by our suppliers which, consequently, could adversely impact certain of our supplier relationships. Our ability to locate qualified, economically stable suppliers who satisfy our requirements, and to acquire sufficient products in a timely and effective manner, is critical to ensuring, among other things, that customer confidence is not diminished. Any failure to develop sourcing relationships with a broad and deep supplier base could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. INDUSTRY RISKS The health care products distribution industry is highly competitive (including, without limitation, competition from third-party online commerce sites) and consolidating, and we may not be able to compete successfully. We compete with numerous companies, including several major manufacturers and distributors. Some of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do, which could allow them to compete more successfully. Most of our products are available from several sources and our customers tend to have relationships with several distributors. Competitors could obtain exclusive rights to market particular products, which we would then be unable to market. Manufacturers also could increase their efforts to sell directly to end-users and thereby eliminate or reduce our role in distribution. Industry consolidation among health care product distributors and manufacturers, price competition, product unavailability, whether due to our inability to gain access to products or 29 to interruptions in manufacturing supply, or the emergence of new competitors, also could increase competition. Consolidation has also increased among manufacturers of health care products, which could have a material adverse effect on our margins and product availability. We could be subject to charges and financial losses in the event we fail to satisfy minimum purchase commitments contained in some of our contracts. Additionally, traditional health care supply and distribution relationships are being challenged by electronic online commerce solutions. The continued advancement of online commerce by third parties will require us to cost-effectively adapt to changing technologies, to enhance existing services and to differentiate our business (including with additional value-added services) to address changing demands of consumers and our customers on a timely basis. The emergence of such potential competition and our inability to anticipate and effectively respond to changes on a timely basis could have a material adverse effect on our business. The repeal or judicial prohibition on implementation of the Affordable Care Act could materially adversely affect our business. The ACA greatly expanded health insurance coverage in the United States and has been the target of litigation and Congressional reform efforts since its adoption. The U.S. Supreme Court, in upholding the constitutionality of the ACA and its individual mandate provision in 2012, simultaneously limited ACA provisions requiring Medicaid expansion, making such expansion a state-by-state decision. In 2017, the U.S. Congress effectively repealed the ACA’s individual mandate provision by eliminating the financial penalty for non-compliance. In the most recent ACA litigation, a federal appeals court found the individual mandate to be unconstitutional, and returned the case to a lower federal court for consideration of whether the remainder of the ACA could survive the excision of the individual mandate. This decision was appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court, and the Supreme Court issued a decision on June 17, 2021. Without reaching the merits of the case, the Supreme Court held that the plaintiffs in the case did not have standing to challenge the ACA. Any outcome of future cases that change the ACA, in addition to future legislation, regulation, guidance and/or Executive Orders that do the same, could have a significant impact on the U.S. healthcare industry. For instance, the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 enhanced premium tax credits, which has resulted in an expansion of the number of people covered under the ACA. These changes are time-limited, with some enhancements in place for 2021 only and others available through the end of 2022. The health care industry is experiencing changes due to political, economic and regulatory influences that could materially adversely affect our business. The health care industry is highly regulated and subject to changing political, economic and regulatory influences. In recent years, the health care industry has undergone, and is in the process of undergoing, significant changes driven by various efforts to reduce costs, including, among other factors: trends toward managed care; collective purchasing arrangements and consolidation among office-based health care practitioners; and changes in reimbursements to customers, including increased attention to value-based payment arrangements, as well as growing enforcement activities (and related monetary recoveries) by governmental officials. Both our profitability and the profitability of our customers may be materially adversely affected by laws and regulations reducing reimbursement rates for pharmaceuticals, medical supplies and devices, and/or medical treatments or services, or changes to the methodology by which reimbursement levels are determined. If we are unable to react effectively to these and other changes in the health care industry, our business could be materially adversely affected. Expansion of group purchasing organizations (“GPO”), dental support organizations (“DSO”) or provider networks and the multi-tiered costing structure may place us at a competitive disadvantage. The health care products industry is subject to a multi-tiered costing structure, which can vary by manufacturer and/or product. Under this structure, certain institutions can obtain more favorable prices for health care products than we are able to obtain. The multi-tiered costing structure continues to expand as many large integrated health care providers and others with significant purchasing power, such as GPOs and DSOs, demand more favorable pricing terms. Additionally, the formation of provider networks, GPOs and DSOs may shift purchasing decisions to entities or persons with whom we do not have a historical relationship and may threaten our ability to compete effectively, which could in turn negatively impact our financial results. Although we are seeking to obtain similar terms from manufacturers to access lower prices demanded by GPO and DSO contracts or other contracts, and to 30 develop relationships with existing and emerging provider networks, GPOs and DSOs, we cannot guarantee that such terms will be obtained or contracts executed. Increases in shipping costs or service issues with our third-party shippers could harm our business. Our ability to meet our customers’ expedited delivery expectations is an integral component of our business strategy for which our customers rely. Shipping is a significant expense in the operation of our business. We ship almost all of our orders through third-party delivery services, and typically bear the cost of shipment. Accordingly, any significant increase in shipping rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. While we have recently experienced increases in the cost of shipping, we do not expect these additional expenses to be material to our results. However, it is possible that such costs could be material in the future. Similarly, strikes or other service interruptions by those shippers, including at transportation centers or shipping ports, could cause our operating expenses to rise and materially adversely affect our ability to deliver products on a timely basis. MACRO ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL RISKS Uncertain global and domestic macro-economic and political conditions could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Uncertain global and domestic macro-economic and political conditions that affect the economy and the economic outlook of the United States, Europe, Asia and other parts of the world could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. These uncertainties, include, among other things: • election results; • changes to laws and policies governing foreign trade (including, without limitation, the United States- Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA), the EU-UK Trade and Cooperation Agreement of December 2020 (that went into effect in 2021) and other international trade agreements); • greater restrictions on imports and exports; • supply chain disruptions; • changes in laws and policies governing health care or data privacy; • tariffs and sanctions; • changes to the relationship between the United States and China; • sovereign debt levels; • the inability of political institutions to effectively resolve actual or perceived economic, currency or budgetary crises or issues; • consumer confidence; • unemployment levels (and a corresponding increase in the uninsured and underinsured population); • changes in regulatory and tax regulations; • interest rate fluctuations, and strengthening of the dollar, which have and will continue to impact our results of operations; • availability of capital; • increases in fuel and energy costs; • the effect of inflation on our ability to procure products and our ability to increase prices over time and pass through to our customers price increases we may receive; • changes in tax rates and the availability of certain tax deductions; • increases in labor costs; • increases in health care costs; • our aspirations, goals and disclosures related to environmental, social and governance (ESG) matters; • the threat or outbreak of war, terrorism or public unrest (including, without limitation, the war in Ukraine and the possibility of a wider European or global conflict); and • changes in laws and policies governing manufacturing, development and investment in territories and countries where we do business. 31 Additionally, changes in government, government debt and/or budget crises may lead to reductions in government spending in certain countries, which could reduce overall health care spending, and/or higher income or corporate taxes, which could depress spending overall. Recessionary or inflationary conditions and depressed levels of consumer and commercial spending may also cause customers to reduce, modify, delay or cancel plans to purchase our products and may cause suppliers to reduce their output or change their terms of sale. We have experienced inflationary pressures, including higher freight costs and interest expense. Although inflation impacts both our revenues and costs, the depth and breadth of our product portfolio often allows us to offer lower-cost national brand solutions or corporate brand alternatives to our more price-sensitive customers who are unable to absorb price increases, thus positioning us to protect our gross profit. The strengthening of the dollar, likewise, has impacted our revenues and costs, but neither inflation nor exchange rates have materially impacted our results of operations in fiscal year 2022. We generally sell products to customers with payment terms. If customers’ cash flow or operating and financial performance deteriorate, or if they are unable to make scheduled payments or obtain credit, they may not be able to, or may delay, payment to us. Likewise, for similar reasons suppliers may restrict credit or impose different payment terms. REGULATORY AND LITIGATION RISKS Failure to comply with existing and future regulatory requirements could materially adversely affect our business. We strive to be compliant with the applicable laws, regulations and guidance described below in all material respects, and believe we have effective compliance programs and other controls in place to ensure substantial compliance. However, compliance is not guaranteed either now or in the future as certain laws, regulations and guidance may be subject to varying and evolving interpretations that could affect our ability to comply, as well as, future changes, additions and enforcement approaches, including in light of political changes. When we discover situations of non-compliance we seek to remedy them and bring the affected area back into compliance. The Biden Administration has indicated that it will be more aggressive in its pursuing alleged violations of law, and it has revoked certain guidance that would have limited governmental use of informal agency guidance to pursue such violations, as well as indicating it was more prepared to pursue individuals for corporate law violations, including an aggressive approach to anti-corruption activities. Changes with respect to the applicable laws, regulations and guidance described below may require us to update or revise our operations, services, marketing practices, and compliance programs and controls, and may impose additional and unforeseen costs on us, pose new or previously immaterial risks to us, or may otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business. There can be no assurance that current and future government regulations will not adversely affect our business, and we cannot predict new regulatory priorities, the form, content or timing of regulatory actions, and their impact on the health care industry and on our business and operations. Global efforts toward healthcare cost containment continue to exert pressure on product pricing. In the United States, in addition to other government efforts to control health care costs, there has been increased scrutiny on drug pricing and concurrent efforts to control or reduce drug costs by Congress, the President, executive branch agencies and various states. At the state level, several states have adopted laws that require drug manufacturers to provide advance notice of certain price increases and to report information relating to those price increases, while others have taken legislative or administrative action to establish prescription drug affordability boards or multi-payer purchasing pools to reduce the cost of prescription drugs. At the federal level, several related bills have been introduced and regulations proposed which, if enacted or finalized, respectively, would impact drug pricing and related costs. Under the Sunshine Act, we are required to collect and report detailed information regarding certain financial relationships we have with covered recipients, including physicians, dentists, teaching hospitals, and certain other non-physician practitioners. We and our subsidiaries may be required to report information under certain state transparency laws that address circumstances not covered by the Sunshine Act, and some of these state laws, as well as the federal law, can be unclear. We are also subject to foreign regulations requiring transparency of certain interactions between suppliers and their customers. While we believe we have substantially compliant programs and controls in place satisfying the above laws and requirements, such compliance imposes additional costs on us and the requirements are sometimes unclear. In the United States, government actions to seek to increase health- related price transparency may also affect our business. 32 Our business is subject to additional requirements under various local, state, federal and international laws and regulations applicable to the sale and distribution of, and third-party payment for, pharmaceuticals and medical devices and HCT/P products. Among the federal laws with which we must comply are the Controlled Substances Act, the FDC Act, the Federal Drug Quality and Security Act, including DSCSA, Section 361 of the Public Health Services Act and Section 401 of the Consolidated Appropriations Act of the Social Security Act. Among other things, such laws, and the regulations promulgated thereunder: • regulate the introduction, manufacture, advertising, marketing and promotion, sampling, pricing and reimbursement, labeling, packaging, storage, handling, returning or recalling, reporting, and distribution of, and record keeping for drugs, HCT/P products and medical devices, including requirements with respect to unique medical device identifiers; • subject us to inspection by the FDA and DEA and similar state authorities; • regulate the storage, transportation and disposal of certain of our products that are considered hazardous materials; • require us to advertise and promote our drugs and devices in accordance with applicable FDA requirements; • require us to report average sales price (ASP) for drugs or biologicals payable under Medicare Part B to CMS with or without a Medicaid drug rebate agreement; • require registration with the FDA and the DEA and various state agencies; • require record keeping and documentation of transactions involving drug products; • require us to design and operate a system to identify and report suspicious orders of controlled substances to the DEA and certain states; • require us to manage returns of products that have been recalled and subject us to inspection of our recall procedures and activities; • impose on us reporting requirements if a pharmaceutical, HCT/P product or medical device causes serious illness, injury or death; • require manufacturers, wholesalers, repackagers and dispensers of prescription drugs to identify and trace certain prescription drugs as they are distributed; • require the licensing of prescription drug wholesalers and third-party logistics providers; and • mandate compliance with standards for the recordkeeping, storage and handling of prescription drugs, and associated reporting requirements. The FDA has become increasingly active in addressing the regulation of computer software and digital health products intended for use in health care settings. The Cures Act, signed into law on December 13, 2016, among other things, amended the medical device definition to exclude certain software from FDA regulation, including certain clinical decision support software. On September 27, 2019, the FDA issued a suite of guidance documents on digital health products, which incorporated applicable Cures Act standards, and on September 28, 2022, the FDA subsequently finalized certain of these guidance documents, including regarding the types of clinical decision support tools and other software that are exempt from regulation by the FDA as medical devices, and the FDA continues to issue new guidance in this area. Certain of our businesses involve the development and sale of software and related products to support physician and dental practice management, and it is possible that the FDA or foreign government authorities could determine that one or more of our products is subject to regulation as a medical device, which could subject us or one or more of our businesses to substantial additional requirements, costs and potential enforcement actions or liabilities for noncompliance with respect to these products. Applicable federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations also may require us to meet various standards relating to, among other things, licensure or registration, program eligibility, procurement, third-party reimbursement, sales and marketing practices, product integrity and supply tracking to product manufacturers, product labeling, personnel, privacy and security of health or other personal information, installation, maintenance and repair of equipment and the importation and exportation of products. The FDA and DEA, as well as CMS (including with respect to complex Medicare reimbursement requirements applicable to our specialty home medical supplies business), have recently increased their regulatory and enforcement activities and, in particular, the DEA has heightened enforcement activities due to the opioid crisis in the United States. One of our businesses was 33 suspended in October 2021 by CMS from receiving payments from Medicare, although it was permitted to continue to perform and bill for Medicare services. On September 30, 2022, CMS terminated the suspension of Medicare payments. As a result of the termination of the suspension, we recognized $4 million of previously deferred revenue during the year ended December 31, 2022. Our business is also subject to requirements of similar and other foreign governmental laws and regulations affecting our operations abroad. The failure to comply with any of these laws or regulations, or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, or the imposition of any additional laws and regulations, could materially adversely affect our business. The costs to us associated with complying with the various applicable statutes and regulations, as they now exist and as they may be modified, could be material. Allegations by a governmental body that we have not complied with these laws could have a material adverse effect on our businesses. While we believe that we are substantially compliant with applicable laws and regulations, and believe we have adequate compliance programs and controls in place to ensure substantial compliance, if it is determined that we have not complied with these laws, we are potentially subject to warning letters, substantial civil and criminal penalties, mandatory recall of product, seizure of product and injunction, consent decrees and suspension or limitation of payments to us, product sale and distribution. If we enter into settlement agreements to resolve allegations of non-compliance, we could be required to make settlement payments or be subject to civil and criminal penalties, including fines and the loss of licenses. Non-compliance with government requirements could also adversely affect our ability to participate in important federal and state government health care programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and damage our reputation. The EU Medical Device Regulation may adversely affect our business. The EU MDR, applicable since May 26, 2021, significantly modifies and intensifies the regulatory compliance requirements for the medical device industry as a whole. Among other things, the EU MDR: • strengthens the rules on placing devices on the market and reinforce surveillance once they are available; • establishes explicit provisions on manufacturers’ responsibilities for the follow-up of the quality, performance and safety of devices placed on the market; • improves the traceability of medical devices throughout the supply chain to the end-user or patient through a unique identification number; • sets up a central database to provide patients, healthcare professionals and the public with comprehensive information on products available in the EU; • strengthens rules for the assessment of certain high-risk devices, such as implants, which may have to undergo an additional check by experts before they are placed on the market; and • identifies importers and distributors and medical device products through registration in a database (EUDAMED not due until 2024 and after as mentioned above). In particular, the EU MDR imposes strict requirements for the confirmation that a product meets the regulatory requirements, including regarding a product’s clinical evaluation and a company’s quality systems, and for the distribution, marketing and sale of medical devices, including post-market surveillance. Medical devices that have been assessed and/or certified under the EU Medical Device Directive may continue to be placed on the market until 2024 (or until the expiry of their certificates, if applicable and earlier). However, on January 6, 2023, the EU Commission submitted a proposed amendment to extend the MDR transitional periods until December 31, 2028, for certain medical devices to ensure continued access to medical devices for patients and to allow medical devices already placed on the market in accordance with the current legal framework to remain on the market. We continue to monitor developments and whether the proposed amendment and new deadlines will be approved by the European Parliament and Council. Nevertheless, EU MDR requirements regarding the distribution, marketing and sale including quality systems and post-market surveillance have to be observed by manufacturers, importers and distributors as of the application date (i.e., May 26, 2021). The modifications created by the EU MDR may have an impact on the way we design and manufacture products and the way we conduct our business in the European Economic Area. 34 If we fail to comply with laws and regulations relating to health care fraud or other laws and regulations, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations, which could materially adversely affect our business. Certain of our businesses are subject to federal and state (and similar foreign) health care fraud and abuse, referral and reimbursement laws and regulations with respect to their operations. Some of these laws, referred to as “false claims laws,” prohibit the submission or causing the submission of false or fraudulent claims for reimbursement to federal, state and other health care payers and programs. Other laws, referred to as “anti-kickback laws,” prohibit soliciting, offering, receiving or paying remuneration in order to induce the referral of a patient or ordering, purchasing, leasing or arranging for, or recommending ordering, purchasing or leasing of, items or services that are paid for by federal, state and other health care payers and programs. Certain additional state and federal laws, such as the federal Physician Self-Referral Law, commonly known as the “Stark Law,” prohibit physicians and other health professionals from referring a patient to an entity with which the physician (or family member) has a financial relationship, for the furnishing of certain designated health services (for example, durable medical equipment and medical supplies), unless an exception applies. Violations of Anti-Kickback statutes or the Stark Law may be enforced as violations of the federal False Claims Act. The fraud and abuse laws and regulations have been subject to heightened enforcement activity over the past few years, and significant enforcement activity has been the result of “relators” who serve as whistleblowers by filing complaints in the name of the United States (and if applicable, particular states) under applicable false claims laws, and who may receive up to 30% of total government recoveries. Penalties under fraud and abuse laws may be severe, including treble damages and substantial civil penalties under the federal False Claims Act, as well as potential loss of licenses and the ability to participate in federal and state health care programs, criminal penalties, or imposition of a corporate compliance monitor, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Also, these measures may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require us to make changes in our operations or incur substantial defense and settlement expenses. Even unsuccessful challenges by regulatory authorities or private relators could result in reputational harm and the incurring of substantial costs. Most states have adopted similar state false claims laws, and these state laws have their own penalties which may be in addition to federal False Claims Act penalties, as well as other fraud and abuse laws. With respect to measures of this type, the United States government (among others) has expressed concerns about financial relationships between suppliers on the one hand and physicians, dentists and other health care providers, on the other. As a result, we regularly review and revise our marketing practices as necessary to facilitate compliance. In the EU, the Directive No. 2019/1937 of October 23, 2019, on the protection of persons who report breaches of Union law, organizes the legal protection of whistleblowers. This Directive covers whistleblowers reporting breaches of certain EU laws, in particular as regards public health, the above-mentioned Directive No. 2001/83, Regulation No. 726/2004 or, as regards data protection, the GDPR. The Directive protects a wide range of people and includes former employees. All private companies with 50 or more employees are required to create effective internal reporting channels. Though it was required before December 17, 2021, at the latest, the implementation of this Directive by EU member states is still underway for some of them. At the end of January 2023 and according to information available on public sources, sixteen EU member states have fully implemented it (France, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, Latvia, The Netherlands, Ireland, Croatia, Cyprus, Greece, Lithuania, Romania, Malta, Portugal, Sweden and Bulgaria) while the process is ongoing in the others with varying degrees of progress. We also are subject to the requirements of the new Directive No. 2022/2464 on corporate sustainability reporting ("CSR Directive") adopted on December 14, 2022 and has to be implemented by EU members states by July 6, 2024, at the latest. By amending Directives No. 2004/109, No. 2006/43, No. 2013/34 and Regulation No. 537/2014, the CSR Directive strengthens the existing rules on non-financial reporting by setting new requirements for large companies to publish sustainability-related information and, in particular, disclose details about their risks and impacts on environmental matters. We also are subject to certain United States and foreign laws and regulations concerning the conduct of our foreign operations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, German anti-corruption laws 35 and other anti-bribery laws and laws pertaining to the accuracy of our internal books and records, which have been the focus of increasing enforcement activity globally in recent years. Our businesses are generally subject to numerous other laws and regulations that could impact our financial results, including, without limitation, securities, antitrust, consumer protection, and marketing laws and regulations. In the EU, both active and passive bribery are criminalized. The EU Council Framework Decision 2003/568/JHA of 22 July 2003 on combating corruption in the private sector establishes more detailed rules on the liability of legal persons and deterrent sanctions. However, the liability of legal persons is regulated at a national level. Failure to comply with fraud and abuse laws and regulations, and other laws and regulations, could result in significant civil and criminal penalties and costs, including the loss of licenses and the ability to participate in federal and state health care programs, and could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may determine to enter into settlements, make payments, agree to consent decrees or enter into other arrangements to resolve such matters. Intentional or unintentional failure to comply with consent decrees could materially adversely affect our business. While we believe that we are substantially compliant with applicable fraud and abuse and other laws and regulations, and believe we have adequate compliance programs and controls in place to ensure substantial compliance, we cannot predict whether changes in applicable law, or interpretation of laws, or changes in our services or marketing practices in response to changes in applicable law or interpretation of laws, could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we fail to comply with laws and regulations relating to the collection, storage and processing of sensitive personal information or standards in electronic health records or transmissions, we could be required to make significant changes to our products, or incur substantial fines, penalties or other liabilities. Our businesses that involve physician and dental practice management products, and our specialty home medical supply business, include electronic information technology systems that store and process personal health, clinical, financial and other sensitive information of individuals. These information technology systems may be vulnerable to breakdown, wrongful intrusions, data breaches and malicious attack, which could require us to expend significant resources to eliminate these problems and address related security concerns, and could involve claims against us by private parties and/or governmental agencies. We are directly or indirectly subject to numerous and evolving federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that protect the privacy and security of personal information, such as HIPAA, the Controlling the Assault of Non- Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act, the Telephone Consumer Protection Act of 1991, Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act, the CCPA, and the CPRA that becomes effective on January 1, 2023. Laws and regulations relating to privacy and data protection are continually evolving and subject to potentially differing interpretations. These requirements may not be harmonized, may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another or may conflict with other rules or our practices. Our businesses’ failure to comply with these laws and regulations could expose us to breach of contract claims, substantial fines, penalties and other liabilities and expenses, costs for remediation and harm to our reputation. Also, evolving laws and regulations in this area could restrict the ability of our customers to obtain, use or disseminate patient information, or could require us to incur significant additional costs to re-design our products to reflect these legal requirements, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. In addition, the European Parliament and the Council of the EU adopted the GDPR effective from May 25, 2018, which increased privacy rights for individuals (“Data Subjects”), including individuals who are our customers, suppliers and employees. The GDPR extended the scope of responsibilities for data controllers and data processors, and generally imposes increased requirements and potential penalties on companies, such as us, that are either established in the EU and process personal data of Data Subjects (regardless the Data Subject location), or that are not established in the EU but that offer goods or services to Data Subjects in the EU or monitor their behavior in the EU. Noncompliance can result in penalties of up to the greater of EUR 20 million, or 4% of global company revenues (sanction that may be public), and Data Subjects may seek damages. Member states may individually impose additional requirements and penalties regarding certain limited matters (for which the GDPR left some room of flexibility), such as employee personal data. With respect to the personal data it protects, the 36 GDPR requires, among other things, controller accountability, consents from Data Subjects or another acceptable legal basis to process the personal data, notification within 72 hours of a personal data breach where required, data integrity and security, and fairness and transparency regarding the storage, use or other processing of the personal data. The GDPR also provides rights to Data Subjects relating notably to information, access, rectification, erasure of the personal data and the right to object to the processing. On August 20, 2021, China promulgated the PIPL, which took effect on November 1, 2021. The PIPL imposes specific rules for processing personal information and it also specifies that the law shall also apply to personal information activities carried out outside China but for the purpose of providing products or services to PRC citizens. Any non-compliance with these laws and regulations may subject us to fines, orders to rectify or terminate any actions that are deemed illegal by regulatory authorities, other penalties, as well as reputational damage or legal proceedings against us, which may affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The PIPL carries maximum penalties of CNY50 million or 5% of the annual revenue of entities that process personal data. In the United States, the CCPA, which increases the privacy protections afforded California residents, became effective January 1, 2020. The CCPA generally requires companies, such as us, to institute additional protections regarding the collection, use and disclosure of certain personal information of California residents. Compliance with the obligations imposed by the CCPA depends in part on how particular regulators interpret and apply them. Regulations were released in August of 2020, but there remains some uncertainty about how the CCPA will be interpreted by the courts and enforced by the regulators. If we fail to comply with the CCPA or if regulators assert that we have failed to comply with the CCPA, we may be subject to certain fines or other penalties and litigation, any of which may negatively impact our reputation, require us to expend significant resources, and harm our business. Furthermore, California voters approved the CPRA on November 3, 2020, which will amend and expand the CCPA, including by providing consumers with additional rights with respect to their personal information, and creating a new state agency to enforce CCPA and CPRA. The CPRA came into effect on January 1, 2023, applying to information collected by businesses on or after January 1, 2022. Other states, as well as the federal government, have increasingly considered the adoption of similarly expansive personal privacy laws, backed by significant civil penalties for non-compliance. Virginia and Colorado were both successful in passing privacy legislation in 2021, becoming effective on January 1, 2023 and July 1, 2023, respectively. Connecticut and Utah also passed comprehensive privacy laws that will go into effect in July 1, 2023 and December 31, 2023. While we believe we have substantially compliant programs and controls in place to comply with the GDPR, CCPA, PIPL and CPRA requirements, our compliance with data privacy and cybersecurity laws is likely to impose additional costs on us, and we cannot predict whether the interpretations of the requirements, or changes in our practices in response to new requirements or interpretations of the requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We also sell products and services that health care providers, such as physicians and dentists, use to store and manage patient medical or dental records. These customers and we are subject to laws, regulations and industry standards, such as HIPAA and the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards, which require the protection of the privacy and security of those records. Our products or services may be used as part of these customers’ comprehensive data security programs, including in connection with their efforts to comply with applicable data privacy and security laws and contractual requirements. Perceived or actual security vulnerabilities in our products or services, or the perceived or actual failure by us or our customers who use our products or services to comply with applicable legal or contractual data privacy and security requirements, may not only cause us significant reputational harm, but may also lead to claims against us by our customers and/or governmental agencies and involve substantial fines, penalties and other liabilities and expenses and costs for remediation. Under the GDPR, health data belong to the category of “sensitive data” and benefit from specific protections. Processing of such data is generally prohibited, except for specific exceptions. Certain of our businesses involve the manufacture and sale of EHR systems and other products linked to government supported incentive programs, where the EHR systems must be certified as having certain capabilities designated in evolving standards, such as those adopted by CMS and ONC. In order to maintain certification of our EHR products, we must satisfy the changing governmental standards. If any of our EHR systems do not meet these standards, yet have been relied upon by health care providers to receive federal incentive payments, we may be 37 exposed to risk, such as under federal health care fraud and abuse laws, including the False Claims Act. While we believe we are substantially in compliance with such certifications and with applicable fraud and abuse laws and regulations and that we have adequate compliance programs and controls in place to ensure substantial compliance, we cannot predict whether changes in applicable law, or interpretation of laws, or resulting changes in our, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Moreover, in order to satisfy our customers and comply with evolving legal requirements, our products may need to incorporate increasingly complex functionality, such as with respect to reporting and information blocking. Although we believe we are positioned to accomplish this, the effort may involve increased costs, and our failure to implement product modifications, or otherwise satisfy applicable standards, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, as electronic medical devices are increasingly connected to each other and to other technology, the ability of these connected systems to safely and effectively exchange and use exchanged information becomes increasingly important. As a medical device manufacturer, we must manage risks including those associated with an electronic interface that is incorporated into a medical device. Tax legislation could materially adversely affect our financial results and tax liabilities. We are subject to the tax laws and regulations of the United States federal, state and local governments, as well as foreign jurisdictions. From time to time, various legislative initiatives may be proposed that could materially adversely affect our tax positions. There can be no assurance that our effective tax rate will not be materially adversely affected by legislation resulting from these initiatives. In addition, tax laws and regulations are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. Although we believe that our historical tax positions are sound and consistent with applicable laws, regulations and existing precedent, there can be no assurance that our tax positions will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that we would be successful in any such challenge. We face inherent risk of exposure to product liability, intellectual property infringement and other claims in the event that the use of the products we sell results in injury. Our business involves a risk of product liability, intellectual property infringement and other claims in the ordinary course of business, and from time to time we are named as a defendant in cases as a result of our distribution of products. Additionally, we own interests in companies that manufacture certain dental products. As a result, we could be subject to the potential risk of product liability, intellectual property infringement or other claims relating to the manufacture and distribution of products by those entities. In addition, as our corporate brand business continues to grow, purchasers of such products may increasingly seek recourse directly from us, rather than the ultimate product manufacturer, for product-related claims. Another potential risk we face in the distribution of our products is liability resulting from counterfeit or tainted products infiltrating the supply chain. In addition, some of the products that we transport and sell are considered hazardous materials. The improper handling of such materials or accidents involving the transportation of such materials could subject us to liability or at least legal action that could harm our reputation. Customs policies or legislative import restrictions could hinder the Company’s ability to import goods necessary to our operations on a timely basis and result in government enforcement actions and/or sanctions. Government-imposed import policies and legislation regulating the import of goods and prohibiting the use of forced labor or human trafficking could result in delays or the inability to import goods in a timely manner that are necessary to our operations, and such policies or legislation could also result in financial penalties, other sanctions, government enforcement actions and reputational harm. While the Company has policies against and seeks to avoid the import of goods that are manufactured in whole or in part by forced labor or through human trafficking, as a result of legislative and governmental policy initiatives, we may be subject to increasing potential delays, added costs, supply chain disruption and other restrictions. 38 GENERAL RISKS Security risks generally associated with our information systems and our technology products and services could materially adversely affect our business, and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected if such products, services or systems (or third-party systems we rely on) are interrupted, damaged by unforeseen events, are subject to cyberattacks or fail for any extended period of time. We rely on information systems (IS) in our business to obtain, rapidly process, analyze, manage and store customer, product, supplier and employee data to, among other things: • maintain and manage worldwide systems to facilitate the purchase and distribution of thousands of inventory items from numerous distribution centers; • receive, process and ship orders on a timely basis; • manage the accurate billing and collections for thousands of customers; • process payments to suppliers; and • provide products and services that maintain certain of our customers’ electronic medical or dental records (including protected health information of their patients). Information security risks have generally increased in recent years, and a cyberattack that bypasses our IS security systems (including third-party systems we rely on) causing an IS security breach may lead to a material disruption of our IS business systems (including third-party systems we rely on) and/or the loss of business information, as well as claims against us by affected parties and/or governmental agencies, and involve fines and penalties, costs for remediation, and substantial defense and settlement expenses. In addition, we develop products and provide services to our customers that are technology-based, and a cyberattack that bypasses the IS security systems of our products or services causing a security breach and/or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products or services could also cause significant loss of business and reputational harm, and actual or perceived vulnerabilities may lead to claims against us by our customers and/or governmental agencies. In particular, certain of our practice management products and services purchased by health care providers, such as physicians and dentists, are used to store and manage patient medical or dental records. These customers are subject to laws and regulations which require that they protect the privacy and security of those records, and our products may be used as part of these customers’ comprehensive data security programs, including in connection with their efforts to comply with applicable privacy and security laws. Perceived or actual security vulnerabilities in our products or services, or the perceived or actual failure by us or our customers who use our products to comply with applicable legal requirements, may not only cause reputational harm and loss of business, but may also lead to claims against us by our customers and/or governmental agencies and involve damages, fines and penalties, costs for remediation, and substantial defense and settlement expenses. In addition, a cyberattack on a third-party that we use to manage a portion of our information systems could result in the same effects. Additionally, legislative or regulatory action related to cybersecurity may increase our costs to develop or implement new technology products and services. From time to time, we have had to address immaterial security incidents (“security incidents”). There can be no assurance that we will not experience material security incidents in the future. Security incidents can be difficult to detect and any delay in identifying them could increase their harm. While we have implemented measures to protect our IS systems, such measures may not prevent these events. Any such security incidents could disrupt our operations, harm our reputation or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business. We have various insurance policies, including cybersecurity insurance, covering risks and in amounts that we consider adequate. There can be no assurance that the insurance coverage we maintain is sufficient or will be available in adequate amounts or at a reasonable cost to cover costs and expenses related to security incidents. Furthermore, procedures and safeguards must continually evolve to meet new IS challenges, and enhancing protections, and conducting investigations and remediation, may impose additional costs on us. Finally, our business may be interrupted by shortfalls of IS systems providers engaged by our customers, such as Internet-based services upon which our customers depend to access certain of our products. 39 Our global operations are subject to inherent risks that could materially adversely affect our business. Our global operations are subject to risks that could materially adversely affect our business. The risks that our global operations are subject to include, among other things: • difficulties and costs relating to staffing and managing foreign operations; • difficulties and delays inherent in sourcing products, establishing channels of distribution and contract manufacturing in foreign markets; • fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies (including, without limitation, in connection with Brexit); • uncertainties relating to the EU-UK Trade and Cooperation Agreement of December 2020, which went into effect in 2021, including for example potential implementation issues, potential disputes over the interpretation of the provisions of the Agreement and possible changes to the Agreement restricting the free movement of goods between the U.K. and the European Union; • longer payment cycles of foreign customers and difficulty of collecting receivables in foreign jurisdictions; • repatriation of cash from our foreign operations to the United States; • regulatory requirements, including, without limitation, anti-bribery, anti-corruption and laws pertaining to the accuracy of our internal books and records; • litigation risks, new or unanticipated litigation developments and the status of litigation matters; • unexpected difficulties in importing or exporting our products and import/export tariffs, quotas, sanctions or penalties; • limitations on our ability under local laws to protect our intellectual property; • unexpected regulatory, legal, economic and political changes in foreign markets; • changes in tax regulations that influence purchases of capital equipment; • civil disturbances, geopolitical turmoil, including terrorism, war or political or military coups; • risks associated with climate change, including physical risks such as impacts from extreme weather events and other potential physical consequences, regulatory and technological requirements, market developments, stakeholder expectations and reputational risk; and • public health emergencies, including COVID-19. Our future success is substantially dependent upon our senior management, and our revenues and profitability depend on our relationships with capable sales personnel as well as customers, suppliers and manufacturers of the products that we distribute. Our future success is substantially dependent upon the efforts and abilities of members of our existing senior management, particularly Stanley M. Bergman, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of the services of Mr. Bergman could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have an employment agreement with Mr. Bergman. We do not currently have “key man” life insurance policies on any of our employees. Competition for senior management is intense, burnout and turn-over rates are increasing workplace concerns during and after the COVID-19 pandemic, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining key personnel. Additionally, our future revenues and profitability depend on our ability to maintain satisfactory relationships with qualified sales personnel as well as customers, suppliers and manufacturers. If we fail to maintain our existing relationships with such persons or fail to acquire relationships with such key persons in the future, our business may be materially adversely affected. Disruptions in the financial markets may materially adversely affect the availability and cost of credit to us. Our ability to make scheduled payments or refinance our obligations with respect to indebtedness will depend on our operating and financial performance, which in turn is subject to prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors beyond our control. Disruptions in the financial markets may materially adversely affect the availability and cost of credit to us. 40

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements In accordance with the “Safe Harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, we provide the following cautionary remarks regarding important factors that, among others, could cause future results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements, expectations and assumptions expressed or implied herein. All forward-looking statements made by us are subject to risks and uncertainties and are not guarantees of future performance. These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance and achievements or industry results to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. These statements are generally identified by the use of such terms as “may,” “could,” “expect,” “intend,” “believe,” “plan,” “estimate,” “forecast,” “project,” “anticipate,” “to be,” “to make” or other comparable terms. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and in particular the risks discussed under the caption “Risk Factors” in Item 1A of this report and those that may be discussed in other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Forward looking statements include the overall impact of the Novel Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) on us, our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition (including any estimates of the impact on these items), the rate and consistency with which dental and other practices resume or maintain normal operations in the United States and internationally, expectations regarding personal protective equipment (“PPE”) products and COVID-19 related product sales and inventory levels, whether additional resurgences or variants of the virus will adversely impact the resumption of normal operations, whether supply chain disruptions will adversely impact our business, the impact of integration and restructuring programs as well as of any future acquisitions, general economic conditions including exchange rates, inflation and recession, and more generally current expectations regarding performance in current and future periods. Forward looking statements also include the (i) our ability to have continued access to a variety of COVID-19 test types, expectations regarding COVID-19 test sales, demand and inventory levels, as well as the efficacy or relative efficacy of the test results given that the test efficacy has not been, or will not have been, independently verified under normal FDA procedures and (ii) potential for us to distribute the COVID-19 vaccines and ancillary supplies. Risk factors and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from current and historical results include, but are not limited to: risks associated with COVID-19 and any variants thereof, as well as other disease outbreaks, epidemics, pandemics, or similar wide-spread public health concerns and other natural disasters; our dependence on third parties for the manufacture and supply of our products; our ability to develop or acquire and maintain and protect new products (particularly technology products) and technologies that achieve market acceptance with acceptable margins; transitional challenges associated with acquisitions, dispositions and joint ventures, including the failure to achieve anticipated synergies/benefits; legal, regulatory, compliance, cybersecurity, financial and tax risks associated with acquisitions, dispositions and joint ventures; certain provisions in our governing documents that may discourage third-party acquisitions of us; adverse changes in supplier rebates or other purchasing incentives; risks related to the sale of corporate brand products; effects of a highly competitive (including, without limitation, competition from third-party online commerce sites) and consolidating market; the repeal or judicial prohibition on implementation of the Affordable Care Act; changes in the health care industry; risks from expansion of customer purchasing power and multi-tiered costing structures; increases in shipping costs for our products or other service issues with our third-party shippers; general global and domestic macro-economic and political conditions, including inflation, deflation, recession, fluctuations in energy pricing and the value of the U.S. dollar as compared to foreign currencies, and changes to other economic indicators, international trade agreements, potential trade barriers and terrorism; failure to comply with existing and future regulatory requirements; risks associated with the EU Medical Device Regulation; failure to comply with laws and regulations relating to health care fraud or other laws and regulations; failure to comply with laws and regulations relating to the collection, storage and processing of sensitive personal information or standards in electronic health records or transmissions; changes in tax legislation; risks related to product liability, intellectual property and other claims; litigation risks; new or unanticipated litigation developments and the status of litigation matters; risks associated with customs policies or legislative import restrictions; cyberattacks or other privacy or data security breaches; risks associated with our global operations; our dependence on our senior management, employee hiring and retention, and our relationships with customers, suppliers and manufacturers; and disruptions in financial markets. The order in which these factors appear should not be construed to indicate their relative importance or priority. 44 We caution that these factors may not be exhaustive and that many of these factors are beyond our ability to control or predict. Accordingly, any forward-looking statements contained herein should not be relied upon as a prediction of actual results. We undertake no duty and have no obligation to update forward-looking statements except as required by law. Where You Can Find Important Information We may disclose important information through one or more of the following channels: SEC filings, public conference calls and webcasts, press releases, the investor relations page of our website (www.henryschein.com) and the social media channels identified on the Newsroom page of our website. Recent Developments The COVID-19 pandemic negatively impacted the global economy, disrupted global supply chains and created significant volatility and disruption of global financial markets in 2020 and 2021. The impact of COVID-19 had a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows in 2020. During the year ended December 25, 2021, patient traffic levels returned to levels approaching pre-pandemic levels. Demand for dental products and certain medical products throughout 2021 was driven by sales of PPE and COVID-19 test kits. During the year ended December 31, 2022 we experienced a decrease in the sales volume of PPE and COVID-19 test kits. The volatility in sales of COVID-19 test kits has moderated, albeit at a significantly lower level of sales compared with 2021, resulting in us recording an inventory obsolescence reserve of $17 million for COVID-19 test kits during the year ended December 31, 2022. While the U.S. economy has recently experienced inflationary pressures and strengthening of the U.S dollar, their impacts have not been material to our results of operations in the fourth quarter or full year ended December 31, 2022, and we currently expect moderating of inflation and foreign currency fluctuations. Though inflation impacts both our revenues and costs, the depth and breadth of our product portfolio often allows us to offer lower-cost national brand solutions or corporate brand alternatives to our more price-sensitive customers who are unable to absorb price increases, thus positioning us to protect our gross profit. Our consolidated financial statements reflect estimates and assumptions made by us that affect, among other things, our goodwill, long-lived asset and definite-lived intangible asset valuation; inventory valuation; equity investment valuation; assessment of the annual effective tax rate; valuation of deferred income taxes and income tax contingencies; the allowance for doubtful accounts; hedging activity; supplier rebates; measurement of compensation cost for certain share-based performance awards and cash bonus plans; and pension plan assumptions. Due to the significant uncertainty surrounding the future impact of COVID-19, our judgments regarding estimates and impairments could change in the future. There is an ongoing risk that the COVID-19 pandemic may again have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows and may result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and liquidity. However, the extent of the potential impact cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. 45 Executive-Level Overview Henry Schein, Inc. is a solutions company for health care professionals powered by a network of people and technology. We believe we are the world’s largest provider of health care products and services primarily to office- based dental and medical practitioners, as well as alternate sites of care. We serve more than one million customers worldwide including dental practitioners, laboratories, physician practices, and ambulatory surgery centers, as well as government, institutional health care clinics and other alternate care clinics. We believe that we have a strong brand identity due to our more than 90 years of experience distributing health care products. We are headquartered in Melville, New York, employ approximately 22,000 people (of which approximately 10,700 are based outside of the United States) and have operations or affiliates in 32 countries and territories. Our broad global footprint has evolved over time through our organic success as well as through contribution from strategic acquisitions. We have established strategically located distribution centers around the world to enable us to better serve our customers and increase our operating efficiency. This infrastructure, together with broad product and service offerings at competitive prices, and a strong commitment to customer service, enables us to be a single source of supply for our customers’ needs. While our primary go-to-market strategy is in our capacity as a distributor, we also market and sell under our own corporate brand portfolio of cost-effective, high-quality consumable merchandise products, and manufacture certain dental specialty products in the areas of implants, orthodontics and endodontics. We have achieved scale in these global businesses primarily through acquisitions as manufacturers of these products typically do not utilize a distribution channel to serve customers. We conduct our business through two reportable segments: (i) health care distribution and (ii) technology and value-added services. These segments offer different products and services to the same customer base. Our global dental businesses serve office-based dental practitioners, dental laboratories, schools, government and other institutions. Our medical businesses serve physician offices, urgent care centers, ambulatory care sites, emergency medical technicians, dialysis centers, home health, federal and state governments and large enterprises, such as group practices and integrated delivery networks, among other providers across a wide range of specialties. The health care distribution reportable segment, combining our global dental and medical operating segments, distributes consumable products, small equipment, laboratory products, large equipment, equipment repair services, branded and generic pharmaceuticals, vaccines, surgical products, dental specialty products (including implant, orthodontic and endodontic products), diagnostic tests, infection-control products, PPE products and vitamins. Our global technology and value-added services business provides software, technology and other value-added services to health care practitioners. Our technology business offerings include practice management software systems for dental and medical practitioners. Our value-added practice solutions include practice consultancy, education, revenue cycle management and financial services on a non-recourse basis, e-services, practice technology, network and hardware services, as well as consulting, and continuing education services for practitioners. A key element to grow closer to our customers is our One Schein initiative, which is a unified go-to-market approach that enables practitioners to work synergistically with our supply chain, equipment sales and service and other value-added services, allowing our customers to leverage the combined value that we offer through a single program. Specifically, One Schein provides customers with streamlined access to our comprehensive offering of national brand products, our corporate brand products and proprietary specialty products and solutions (including implant, orthodontic and endodontic products). In addition, customers have access to a wide range of services, including software and other value-added services. 46 Industry Overview In recent years, the health care industry has increasingly focused on cost containment. This trend has benefited distributors capable of providing a broad array of products and services at low prices. It also has accelerated the growth of HMOs, group practices, other managed care accounts and collective buying groups, which, in addition to their emphasis on obtaining products at competitive prices, tend to favor distributors capable of providing specialized management information support. We believe that the trend towards cost containment has the potential to favorably affect demand for technology solutions, including software, which can enhance the efficiency and facilitation of practice management. Our operating results in recent years have been significantly affected by strategies and transactions that we undertook to expand our business, domestically and internationally, in part to address significant changes in the health care industry, including consolidation of health care distribution companies, health care reform, trends toward managed care, cuts in Medicare and collective purchasing arrangements. Our current and future results have been and could be impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic, the current economic environment and continued economic and public health uncertainty. Since the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic in early 2020, we have been carefully monitoring its impact on our global operations and have taken appropriate steps to minimize the risk to our employees. We have seen and expect to continue to see changes in demand trends for some of our products and services, supply chain challenges and labor challenges, as rates of infection fluctuate, new strains or variants of COVID-19 emerge and spread, governments adapt their approaches to combatting the virus, and local conditions change across geographies. As a result, we expect to see continued volatility. Industry Consolidation The health care products distribution industry, as it relates to office-based health care practitioners, is fragmented and diverse. The industry ranges from sole practitioners working out of relatively small offices to group practices or service organizations ranging in size from a few practitioners to a large number of practitioners who have combined or otherwise associated their practices. Due in part to the inability of office-based health care practitioners to store and manage large quantities of supplies in their offices, the distribution of health care supplies and small equipment to office-based health care practitioners has been characterized by frequent, small quantity orders, and a need for rapid, reliable and substantially complete order fulfillment. The purchasing decisions within an office-based health care practice are typically made by the practitioner or an administrative assistant. Supplies and small equipment are generally purchased from more than one distributor, with one generally serving as the primary supplier. The trend of consolidation extends to our customer base. Health care practitioners are increasingly seeking to partner, affiliate or combine with larger entities such as hospitals, health systems, group practices or physician hospital organizations. In many cases, purchasing decisions for consolidated groups are made at a centralized or professional staff level; however, orders are delivered to the practitioners’ offices. We believe that consolidation within the industry will continue to result in a number of distributors, particularly those with limited financial, operating and marketing resources, seeking to combine with larger companies that can provide growth opportunities. This consolidation also may continue to result in distributors seeking to acquire companies that can enhance their current product and service offerings or provide opportunities to serve a broader customer base. Our approach to acquisitions and joint ventures has been to expand our role as a provider of products and services to the health care industry. This trend has resulted in our expansion into service areas that complement our existing operations and provide opportunities for us to develop synergies with, and thus strengthen, the acquired businesses. As industry consolidation continues, we believe that we are positioned to capitalize on this trend, as we believe we have the ability to support increased sales through our existing infrastructure, although there can be no assurances that we will be able to successfully accomplish this. We also have invested in expanding our sales/marketing 47 infrastructure to include a focus on building relationships with decision makers who do not reside in the office- based practitioner setting. As the health care industry continues to change, we continually evaluate possible candidates for joint venture or acquisition and intend to continue to seek opportunities to expand our role as a provider of products and services to the health care industry. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully pursue any such opportunity or consummate any such transaction, if pursued. If additional transactions are entered into or consummated, we would incur merger and/or acquisition-related costs, and there can be no assurance that the integration efforts associated with any such transaction would be successful. Aging Population and Other Market Influences The health care products distribution industry continues to experience growth due to the aging population, increased health care awareness, the proliferation of medical technology and testing, new pharmacology treatments, and expanded third-party insurance coverage, partially offset by the effects of unemployment on insurance coverage. In addition, the physician market continues to benefit from the shift of procedures and diagnostic testing from acute care settings to alternate-care sites, particularly physicians’ offices. According to the U.S. Census Bureau’s International Database, between 2022 and 2032, the 45 and older population is expected to grow by approximately 11%. Between 2022 and 2042, this age group is expected to grow by approximately 21%. This compares with expected total U.S. population growth rates of approximately 6% between 2022 and 2032 and approximately 12% between 2022 and 2042. According to the U.S. Census Bureau’s International Database, in 2022 there are approximately seven million Americans aged 85 years or older, the segment of the population most in need of long-term care and elder-care services. By the year 2050, that number is projected to nearly triple to approximately 19 million. The population aged 65 to 84 years is projected to increase by approximately 27% during the same period. As a result of these market dynamics, annual expenditures for health care services continue to increase in the United States. We believe that demand for our products and services will grow while continuing to be impacted by current and future operating, economic, and industry conditions. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, published “National Health Expenditure Data” indicating that total national health care spending reached approximately $4.3 trillion in 2021, or 18.3% of the nation’s gross domestic product, the benchmark measure for annual production of goods and services in the United States. Health care spending is projected to reach approximately $6.2 trillion in 2028, or 19.7% of the nation’s projected gross domestic product. Government Our businesses are generally subject to numerous laws and regulations that could impact our financial performance, and failure to comply with such laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. See “ ” for a discussion of laws, regulations and governmental activity that may affect our results of operations and financial condition. 48 Results of Operations Refer to Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our 2021 Annual Report on Form 10-K for management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for the fiscal year 2021 compared to fiscal year 2020. The following tables summarize the significant components of our operating results and cash flows from continuing operations: Years Ended December 31, December 25, December 26, 2022 2021 2020 Operating results: Net sales $ 12,647 $ 12,401 $ 10,119 Cost of sales 8,816 8,727 7,303 Gross profit 3,831 3,674 2,816 Operating expenses: Selling, general and administrative 2,771 2,634 2,086 Depreciation and amortization 182 180 163 Restructuring and integration costs 131 8 32 Operating income $ 747 $ 852 $ 535 Other expense, net $ (26) $ (21) $ (35) Gain on sale of equity investments, net of tax - 7 2 Net income from continuing operations 566 660 419 Income from discontinued operations, net of tax - - 1 Net income attributable to Henry Schein, Inc. 538 631 404 Years Ended December 31, December 25, December 26, 2022 2021 2020 Cash flows: Net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations $ 602 $ 710 $ 594 Net cash used in investing activities from continuing operations (276) (677) (115) Net cash used in financing activities from continuing operations (315) (333) (182) 49 Plans of Restructuring and Integration Costs On August 1, 2022, we committed to a restructuring plan focused on funding the priorities of the strategic plan and streamlining operations and other initiatives to increase efficiency. We expect this initiative to extend through 2023. We are currently unable in good faith to make a determination of an estimate of the amount or range of amounts expected to be incurred in connection with these activities, both with respect to each major type of cost associated therewith and with respect to the total cost, or an estimate of the amount or range of amounts that will result in future cash expenditures. During the year ended December 31, 2022, we recorded restructuring charges of $128 million primarily related to severance and employee-related costs, accelerated amortization of right-of-use lease assets, impairment of other long-lived assets and lease exit costs. During the three months ended December 31, 2022, in connection with our restructuring plan, we vacated one of the buildings at our corporate headquarters in Melville NY, which resulted in an accelerated amortization of right- of-use lease asset of $34 million. We also initiated the disposal of a non-profitable US business and recorded related costs of $49 million which primarily consisted of impairment of intangible assets and goodwill, inventory impairment, and severance and employee-related costs. These expenses are included in the $128 million of restructuring charges discussed above. The disposal is expected to be completed in the first quarter of 2023. On August 26, 2022, we acquired Midway Dental Supply. In connection with this acquisition, during the year ended December 31, 2022, we recorded integration costs of $3 million related to one-time employee and other costs, as well as restructuring charges of $9 million, which are included in the $128 million of restructuring charges discussed above. On November 20, 2019, we committed to a contemplated restructuring initiative intended to mitigate stranded costs associated with the spin-off of our animal health business and to rationalize operations and provide expense efficiencies. These activities were originally expected to be completed by the end of 2020 but we extended them to the end of 2021 in light of the changes to the business environment brought on by the COVID-19 pandemic. The restructuring activities under this prior initiative were completed in 2021. 50 2022 Compared to 2021 Net Sales Net sales were as follows: % of % of Increase / (Decrease) 2022 Total 2021 Total $ % Health care distribution (1) Dental $ 7,473 59.1 % $ 7,544 60.8 % $ (71) (0.9) % Medical 4,451 35.2 4,210 34.0 241 5.7 Total health care distribution 11,924 94.3 11,754 94.8 170 1.4 Technology and value-added services (2) 723 5.7 647 5.2 76 11.8 Total $ 12,647 100.0 $ 12,401 100.0 $ 246 2.0 The components of our sales growth were as follows: Local Currency Growth Total Sales Growth Foreign Exchange Impact Total Local Currency Growth Acquisition Growth Extra Week Impact Local Internal Growth Health care distribution (1) Dental Merchandise (2.6) % (3.5) % 0.9 % 1.3 % 1.0 % (1.4) % Dental Equipment 4.7 (4.6) 9.3 0.6 2.3 6.4 Total Dental (0.9) (3.7) 2.8 1.2 1.2 0.4 Medical 5.7 (0.3) 6.0 2.4 1.5 2.1 Total Health Care Distribution 1.4 (2.5) 3.9 1.6 1.3 1.0 Technology and value-added services (2) 11.8 (1.5) 13.3 5.4 0.8 7.1 Total 2.0 (2.4) 4.4 1.8 1.3 1.3 Note: Percentages for Net Sales; Gross Profit; Selling, General and Administrative; Other Expense, Net; and Income Taxes are based on actual values and may not recalculate due to rounding. (1) Consists of consumable products, small equipment, laboratory products, large equipment, equipment repair services, branded and generic pharmaceuticals, vaccines, surgical products, dental specialty products (including implant, orthodontic and endodontic products), diagnostic tests, infection-control products, PPE products and vitamins. (2) Consists of practice management software and other value-added products, which are distributed primarily to health care providers, practice consultancy, education, revenue cycle management and financial services on a non-recourse basis, e-services, continuing education services for practitioners, consulting and other services. Global Sales Global net sales for the year ended December 31, 2022 increased 2.0% based upon the components presented in the table above. We estimate that sales for the year ended December 31, 2022 of PPE products and COVID-19 test kits were approximately $1,245 million, an estimated decrease of 34.7% versus the prior year. Excluding PPE products and COVID-19 test kits, the estimated increase in internally generated local currency sales was 6.7%. Dental Dental net sales for the year ended December 31, 2022 decreased 0.9% based upon the components presented in the table above. Our sales growth in local currency for dental merchandise decreased primarily due to a decrease in PPE product sales. We estimate that global dental sales for the year ended December 31, 2022 of PPE products were approximately $447 million, an estimated decrease of 32.5% versus the prior year. Excluding PPE products, the estimated increase in internally generated local currency dental sales was 3.8%. Dental equipment sales in local currency increased in both our North American and international markets, primarily due to increased demand. 51 Medical Medical net sales for the year ended December 31, 2022 increased 5.7% based upon the components presented in the table above. Globally, we estimate our medical business recorded sales of approximately $798 million of sales of PPE products and COVID-19 test kits for the year ended December 31, 2022, an estimated decrease of approximately 27.4% compared to the prior year. Excluding PPE products and COVID-19 test kits, the estimated increase in internally generated local currency medical sales was 2.1%. Te chnology and value-added services Technology and value-added services net sales for the year ended December 31, 2022 increased 11.8% based upon the components presented in the table above. During the year ended December 31, 2022, the trend for transactional software sales improved as we increased the number of users, generating demand for our sales cycle management solutions, and also from cloud-based solutions that drive practice efficiency and patient engagement. Gross Profit Gross profit and gross margin percentages by segment and in total were as follows: Gross Gross Increase 2022 Margin % 2021 Margin % $ % Health care distribution $ 3,357 28.2 % $ 3,239 27.6 % $ 118 3.6 % Technology and value-added services 474 65.5 435 67.2 39 9.0 Total $ 3,831 30.3 $ 3,674 29.6 $ 157 4.3 As a result of different practices of categorizing costs associated with distribution networks throughout our industry, our gross margins may not necessarily be comparable to other distribution companies. Additionally, we realize substantially higher gross margin percentages in our technology and value-added services segment than in our health care distribution segment. These higher gross margins result from being both the developer and seller of software products and services, as well as certain financial services. The software industry typically realizes higher gross margins to recover investments in research and development. Within our health care distribution segment, gross profit margins may vary from one period to the next. Changes in the mix of products sold as well as changes in our customer mix have been the most significant drivers affecting our gross profit margin. For example, sales of our corporate brand products achieve gross profit margins that are higher than average total gross profit margins of all products. With respect to customer mix, sales to our large- group customers are typically completed at lower gross margins due to the higher volumes sold as opposed to the gross margin on sales to office-based practitioners, who normally purchase lower volumes. Health care distribution gross profit increased primarily due to the increase in net sales discussed above. The overall increase in our health care distribution gross profit was attributable to $67 million of gross profit from acquisitions and gross margin expansion, mainly as a result of increased sales mix of higher-margin products. Technology and value-added services gross profit increased as a result of an increase in gross profit from internally generated sales and gross profit from acquisitions, partially offset by a decrease in gross margin rates. Gross margin rates decreased primarily due to lower gross margins of recently acquired companies in the business services sector and our continued investment in product development and customer service. 52 Operating Expenses Operating expenses (consisting of selling, general and administrative expenses; depreciation and amortization, restructuring and integration costs) by segment and in total were as follows: % of % of Respective Respective Increase 2022 Net Sales 2021 Net Sales $ % Health care distribution $ 2,738 23.0 % $ 2,512 21.4 % $ 226 9.0 % Technology and value-added services 346 47.8 310 48.0 36 11.4 Total $ 3,084 24.4 $ 2,822 22.8 $ 262 9.3 The net increase in operating expenses is attributable to the following: Change in Restructuring and Integration Costs Increase in Operating Costs Acquisitions Total Health care distribution $ 121 $ 39 $ 66 $ 226 Technology and value-added services 2 20 14 36 Total $ 123 $ 59 $ 80 $ 262 The increase in restructuring and integration costs is attributable to our disposal of an unprofitable business, acceleration of amortization of right-of-use lease assets related to the exit from one of the properties at our corporate headquarters, severance costs, and other costs relating to the exit of some facilities. The increase in operating costs includes a $20 million intangible assets impairment charge within our health care distribution segment, and increases in payroll and payroll related costs and travel and convention expenses in both of our reportable segments. While the U.S. economy has recently experienced inflationary pressures and strengthening of the U.S dollar, their impacts have not been material to our results of operations. Other Expense, Net Other expense, net was as follows: Variance 2022 2021 $ % Interest income $ 17 $ 7 $ 10 158.9 % Interest expense (44) (28) (16) (59.1) Other, net 1 - 1 n/a Other expense, net $ (26) $ (21) $ (5) (26.0) Interest income increased primarily due to increased interest rates. Interest expense increased primarily due to increased borrowings and increased interest rates. Income Taxes For the year ended December 31, 2022, our effective tax rate was 23.5% compared to 23.8% for the prior year period. In 2022, the difference between our effective tax rate and the federal statutory tax rate primarily relates to state and foreign income taxes and interest expense. In 2021, the difference between our effective tax rate and the federal statutory tax rate was primarily due to state and foreign income taxes and interest expense. Gain on Sale of Equity Investment In the third quarter of 2021, we received contingent proceeds of $10 million from the 2019 sale of Hu-Friedy resulting in the recognition of an additional after-tax gain of $7 million. No further proceeds are expected from this sale. 53 Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal capital requirements have included funding of acquisitions, purchases of additional noncontrolling interests, repayments of debt principal, the funding of working capital needs, purchases of fixed assets and repurchases of common stock. Working capital requirements generally result from increased sales, special inventory forward buy-in opportunities and payment terms for receivables and payables. Historically, sales have tended to be stronger during the second half of the year and special inventory forward buy-in opportunities have been most prevalent just before the end of the year, and have caused our working capital requirements to be higher from the end of the third quarter to the end of the first quarter of the following year. We finance our business primarily through cash generated from our operations, revolving credit facilities and debt placements. Please see for further information. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flows from operations is dependent on the continued demand of our customers for our products and services, and access to products and services from our suppliers. Our business requires a substantial investment in working capital, which is susceptible to fluctuations during the year as a result of inventory purchase patterns and seasonal demands. Inventory purchase activity is a function of sales activity, special inventory forward buy-in opportunities and our desired level of inventory. We anticipate future increases in our working capital requirements. We finance our business to provide adequate funding for at least 12 months. Funding requirements are based on forecasted profitability and working capital needs, which, on occasion, may change. Consequently, we may change our funding structure to reflect any new requirements. We believe that our cash and cash equivalents, our ability to access private debt markets and public equity markets, and our available funds under existing credit facilities provide us with sufficient liquidity to meet our currently foreseeable short-term and long-term capital needs. Net cash provided by operating activities was $602 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to net cash from continuing operations provided by operating activities of $710 million for the prior year. The net change of $108 million was primarily due to unfavorable net cash used by our working capital accounts, net of acquisitions, driven by an impact of timing of payments which resulted in an increase in other current assets and relative decreases in accounts payable and accrued expenses, partially offset by the relative year over year impact of inventory increases (2021 increase was more significant than the 2022 increase). Net cash used in investing activities was $276 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to $677 million for the prior year. The net change of $401 million was primarily attributable to decreased payments for equity investments and business acquisitions. Net cash used in financing activities was $315 million for the year ended December 31, 2022, compared to net cash used in financing activities of $333 million for the prior year. The net change of $18 million was primarily due to increased net borrowings from debt, partially offset by increased repurchases of common stock. 54 The following table summarizes selected measures of liquidity and capital resources: December 31, December 25, 2022 2021 Cash and cash equivalents $ 117 $ 118 Working capital (1) 1,764 1,537 Debt: Bank credit lines $ 103 $ 51 Current maturities of long-term debt 6 11 Long-term debt 1,040 811 Total debt $ 1,149 $ 873 Leases: Current operating lease liabilities $ 73 $ 76 Non-current operating lease liabilities 275 268 (1) Includes $327 million and $138 million of certain accounts receivable which serve as security for U.S. trade accounts receivable securitization at December 31, 2022 and December 25, 2021, respectively. Our cash and cash equivalents consist of bank balances and investments in money market funds representing overnight investments with a high degree of liquidity. Accounts receivable days sales outstanding and inventory turns Our accounts receivable days sales outstanding from operations increased to 41.9 days as of December 31, 2022 from 41.8 days as of December 25, 2021. During the years ended December 31, 2022 and December 25, 2021, we wrote off approximately $10 million and $8 million, respectively, of fully reserved accounts receivable against our trade receivable reserve. Our inventory turns from operations was 4.7 as of December 31, 2022 and 5.2 as of December 25, 2021. Our working capital accounts may be impacted by current and future economic conditions. Contractual obligations The following table summarizes our contractual obligations related to fixed and variable rate long-term debt and finance lease obligations, including interest (assuming a weighted average interest rate of 4.3%), as well as inventory purchase commitments and operating lease obligations as of December 31, 2022: Payments due by period < 1 year 2 - 3 years 4 - 5 years > 5 years Total Contractual obligations: Long-term debt, including interest $ 41 $ 508 $ 134 $ 538 $ 1,221 Inventory purchase commitments 5 8 8 - 21 Operating lease obligations 82 122 79 98 381 Transition tax obligations 19 23 - - 42 Finance lease obligations, including interest 5 4 1 1 11 Total $ 152 $ 665 $ 222 $ 637 $ 1,676 For information relating to our debt please see . 55 Leases We have operating and finance leases for corporate offices, office space, distribution and other facilities, vehicles and certain equipment. Our leases have remaining terms of less than one year to approximately 19 years, some of which may include options to extend the leases for up to 15 years. As of December 31, 2022, our right-of-use assets related to operating leases were $284 million and our current and non-current operating lease liabilities were $73 million and $275 million, respectively. Please see for further information. Stock Repurchases On March 8, 2021, we announced the reinstatement of our share repurchase program, which had been temporarily suspended in April of 2020. From March 3, 2003 through December 31, 2022, we repurchased $4.5 billion, or 87,180,669 shares, under our common stock repurchase programs, with $115 million available as of December 31, 2022 for future common stock share repurchases. On February 8, 2023, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $400 million in shares of our common stock. Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests Some minority stockholders in certain of our consolidated subsidiaries have the right, at certain times, to require us to acquire their ownership interest in those entities. Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) Topic 480-10 is applicable for noncontrolling interests where we are or may be required to purchase all or a portion of the outstanding interest in a consolidated subsidiary from the noncontrolling interest holder under the terms of a put option contained in contractual agreements. As of December 31, 2022 and December 25, 2021, our balance for redeemable noncontrolling interests was $576 million and $613 million, respectively. Please see for further information. Unrecognized tax benefits As more fully disclosed in of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” we cannot reasonably estimate the timing of future cash flows related to the unrecognized tax benefits, including accrued interest, of $94 million as of December 31, 2022. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Our accounting policies are more fully described in of the consolidated financial statements. The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical data, when available, experience, industry and market trends, and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the combined results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions upon which we rely are reasonable based upon information available to us at the time that these estimates, judgments and assumptions are made. However, by their nature, estimates are subject to various assumptions and uncertainties. Therefore, reported results may differ from estimates and any such differences may be material to our consolidated financial statements. We believe that the following critical accounting estimates, which have been discussed with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors, affect the significant estimates and judgments used in the preparation of our financial statements: 56 Inventories and Reserves Inventories consist primarily of finished goods and are valued at the lower of cost or net realizable value. Cost is determined by the first-in, first-out method for merchandise or actual cost for large equipment and high tech equipment. In estimating carrying value of inventory, we consider many factors including the condition and salability of the inventory by reviewing on-hand quantities, historical sales, forecasted sales and market and economic trends. Certain of our products, specifically PPE and COVID-19 test kits, have experienced changes in net realizable value, due to volatility of pricing and changes in demand for these products. Business Combinations The estimated fair value of acquired identifiable intangible assets (trademarks and trade names, customer relationships and lists, non-compete agreements and product development) is based on critical estimates, judgments and assumptions derived from: analysis of market conditions; discount rates; projected cash flows; customer retention rates; and estimated useful lives. Please see for further discussion of our acquisitions. Goodwill Goodwill is subject to impairment analysis at least once annually as of the first day of our fourth quarter, or if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. Such impairment analyses for goodwill require a comparison of the fair value to the carrying value of reporting units. We regard our reporting units to be our operating segments: global dental, global medical, and technology and value-added services. Goodwill is allocated to such reporting units, for the purposes of preparing our impairment analyses, based on a specific identification basis. Application of the goodwill impairment test requires judgment, including the identification of reporting units, assignment of assets and liabilities that are considered shared services to the reporting units, and ultimately the determination of the fair value of each reporting unit. The fair value of each reporting unit is calculated by applying the discounted cash flow methodology and confirming with a market approach. There are inherent uncertainties, however, related to fair value models, the inputs and our judgments in applying them to this analysis. The most significant inputs include estimation of detailed future cash flows based on budget expectations, and determination of comparable companies to develop a weighted average cost of capital for each reporting unit. On an annual basis, we prepare annual and medium-term financial projections. These projections are based on input from our leadership and are presented annually to our Board of Directors. Influences on this year's forecasted financial information and the fair value model include: the impact of planned strategic initiatives, the continued integration of recent acquisitions and overall market conditions. The estimates used to calculate the fair value of a reporting unit change from year to year based on operating results, market conditions, and other factors. Our third-party valuation specialists provide inputs into our determination of the discount rate. The rate is dependent on a number of underlying assumptions, including the risk-free rate, tax rate, equity risk premium, debt to equity ratio and pre-tax cost of debt. Long-term growth rates are applied to our estimation of future cash flows. The long-term growth rates are tied to growth rates we expect to achieve beyond the years for which we have forecasted operating results. We also consider external benchmarks, and other data points which we believe are applicable to our industry and the composition of our global operations. Based on our quantitative assessment for the year ended December 31, 2022, we recorded a $20 million impairment of goodwill relating to the disposal of an unprofitable business whose estimated fair value was lower than its carrying value. As part of our analysis for the rest of the goodwill balance, we performed a sensitivity analysis on the discount rate and long-term growth rate assumptions. The sensitivities did not result in any additional impairment charges. 57 Definite-Lived Intangible Assets Annually, definite-lived intangible assets such as non-compete agreements, trademarks, trade names, customer relationships and lists, and product development are reviewed for impairment indicators. If any impairment indicators exist, quantitative testing is performed on the asset. The quantitative impairment model is a two-step test under which we first calculate the recoverability of the carrying value by comparing the undiscounted, probability-weighted value of the projected cash flows associated with the asset or asset group, including its estimated residual value, to the carrying amount. If the cash flows associated with the asset or asset group are less than the carrying value, we would perform a fair value assessment of the asset, or asset group. If the carrying amount is found to be greater than the fair value, we record an impairment loss for the excess of book value over the fair value. In addition, in all cases of an impairment review, we re-evaluate the remaining useful lives of the assets and modify them, as appropriate. Although we believe our judgments, estimates and/or assumptions used in estimating cash flows and determining fair value are reasonable, making material changes to such judgments, estimates and/or assumptions could materially affect such impairment analyses and our financial results. During the years ended December 31, 2022, December 25, 2021 and December 26, 2020, we recorded total impairment charges on intangible assets of approximately $49 million ($34 million related to impairment of customer lists and relationships attributable to customer attrition rates being higher than expected in certain businesses and $15 million due to the disposal of an unprofitable business), $1 million and $20 million, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2022 impairment charges were recorded within our health care distribution segment. For the years ended December 25, 2021 and December 26, 2020, impairment charges were recorded within our health care distribution and technology and value-added services segments. Income Tax When determining if the realization of the deferred tax asset is likely by assessing the need for a valuation allowance, estimates and judgement are required. We consider all available evidence, both positive and negative, including estimated future taxable earnings, ongoing planning strategies, future reversals of existing temporary differences and historical operating results. Additionally, changes to tax laws and statutory tax rates can have an impact on our determination. Our intention is to evaluate the realizability of our deferred tax assets quarterly. ASC Topic 740 prescribes the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in the financial statements in accordance with other provisions contained within this guidance. This topic prescribes a recognition threshold and a measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. For those benefits to be recognized, a tax position must be more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by the taxing authorities. The amount recognized is measured as the largest amount of benefit that has a greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate audit settlement. In the normal course of business, our tax returns are subject to examination by various taxing authorities. Such examinations may result in future tax and interest assessments by these taxing authorities for uncertain tax positions taken in respect of certain tax matters. Please see for further discussion. The FASB Staff Q&A, Topic 740 No. 5, Accounting for Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income (“GILTI”), states that an entity can make an accounting policy election to either recognize deferred taxes for temporary differences expected to reverse as GILTI in future years or provide for the tax expense related to GILTI in the year the tax is incurred. We elected to recognize the tax on GILTI as a period expense in the period the tax is incurred. Accounting Standards Update For a discussion of accounting standards updates that have been adopted or will be adopted in the future, please see included under Item 8. 58