********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Our business operations could be affected by factors that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider not to be material to our operations, so you should not consider the risks disclosed in this section to necessarily represent a complete statement of all risks and uncertainties. The Company believes that the following risks could have a material adverse impact on our business, reputation, financial results, financial condition and/or the trading price of our common stock. The order in which these factors appear does not necessarily reflect their relative importance or priority. COMPANY RISKS We are dependent upon third parties for the manufacture and supply of a significant volume of our products. We obtain a significant volume of the products we distribute from third parties, with whom we generally do not have long-term contracts. While there is typically more than one source of supply, some key suppliers, in the aggregate, supply a significant portion of the products we sell. In 2023, our top 10 health care distribution suppliers and our single largest supplier accounted for approximately 25% and 4%, respectively, of our aggregate purchases. Because of our dependence upon such suppliers, our operations are subject to the suppliers’ ability and willingness to supply products in the quantities that we require, and the risks include delays caused by interruption in production based on conditions outside of our control, including a supplier’s failure to comply with applicable government requirements (which may result in product recalls and/or cessation of sales) or an interruption in the suppliers’ manufacturing capabilities. In the event of any such interruption in supply, we would need to identify and obtain acceptable replacement sources on a timely basis. There is no guarantee that we would be able to obtain such alternative sources of supply on a timely basis, if at all, and an extended interruption in supply, particularly of a high-sales volume product, could result in a significant disruption in our sales and operations, as well as damage to our relationships with customers and our reputation. In addition, certain of our suppliers have had their ability to service certain markets restricted or negatively impacted because of allegations of forced labor in their supply chain. Forced labor legislation affecting the supply chain has increased around the world, and the United States recently passed the Uyghur Forced Labor Prevention Act. Our supply chain could be materially disrupted if our suppliers fail to comply with, or are unable to satisfy our demand for products, as a result of applicable forced labor legislation and regulations. Our future growth (especially for our technology and value-added services segment) is dependent upon our ability to develop or acquire and maintain and protect new products and technologies that achieve market acceptance with acceptable margins. Our future success depends on our ability to timely develop (or obtain the right to sell) competitive and innovative (particularly for our technology and value-added services segment) products and services and to market them quickly and cost-effectively. Our ability to anticipate customer needs and emerging trends and develop or acquire new products, services and technologies at competitive prices requires significant resources, including employees with the requisite skills, experience and expertise, particularly in our technology segment, including dental practice management, patient engagement and demand creation software solutions. The failure to successfully address these challenges could materially disrupt our sales and operations. Additionally, our software and e-services products, like software products generally, may contain undetected errors or bugs when introduced or as new versions are released. Any such defective software may result in increased expenses related to the software and could adversely affect our relationships with customers as well as our reputation. With respect to certain software and e-services that we develop, we rely primarily upon copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as contractual and common law protections and confidentiality obligations. We cannot provide assurance that such legal protections will be available, adequate or enforceable in a timely manner to protect our software or e-services products. Risks inherent in acquisitions, dispositions and joint ventures could offset the anticipated benefits. One of our business strategies has been to expand our domestic and international markets in part through acquisitions and joint ventures and we expect to continue to make acquisitions and enter into joint ventures in the future. Such transactions require significant management attention, may place significant demands on our operations, information systems, legal, regulatory, compliance, financial, and human resources functions, and there 26 is risk that one or more may not succeed. We cannot be sure, for example, that we will achieve the benefits of revenue growth that we expect from these acquisitions or joint ventures or that we will avoid unforeseen additional costs, taxes, or expenses. Our ability to successfully implement our acquisition and joint venture strategy depends upon, among other things, the following: • the availability of suitable acquisition or joint venture candidates at acceptable prices; • our ability to consummate such transactions, which could potentially be prohibited due to U.S. or foreign antitrust regulations; • the liquidity of our investments and the availability of financing on acceptable terms; • our ability to retain customers or product lines of the acquired businesses or joint ventures; • our ability to retain, recruit and incentivize the management of the companies we acquire; and • our ability to successfully integrate these companies’ operations, services, products and personnel with our culture, management policies, legal, regulatory, and compliance policies, cybersecurity systems and policies, internal procedures, working capital management, financial, and operational controls and strategies. Furthermore, some of our acquisitions and future acquisitions may give rise to an obligation to make contingent payments or to satisfy certain repurchase obligations, which payments could have material adverse impacts on our financial results individually or in the aggregate. Additionally, when we decide to sell assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or executing alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely manner, which could delay the accomplishment of our strategic objectives. Alternatively, we may dispose of assets or a business at a price or on terms that are less than we had anticipated. Dispositions may also involve continued financial involvement in a divested business, such as through transition service agreements, indemnities or other current or contingent financial obligations. Under these arrangements, performance by the acquired or divested business, or other conditions outside our control, could affect our future financial results. Certain provisions in our governing documents and other documents to which we are a party may discourage third parties from seeking to acquire us that might otherwise result in our stockholders receiving a premium over the market price of their shares. The provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us, may discourage acquisition bids and may impact the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions, among other things require (i) the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 60% of the shares of common stock entitled to vote to approve a merger, consolidation, or a sale, lease, transfer or exchange of all or substantially all of our assets; and (ii) the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of our common stock entitled to vote to (a) remove a director; and (b) to amend or repeal our by-laws, with certain limited exceptions. In addition, certain of our employee incentive plans provide for accelerated vesting of stock options and other awards upon termination without cause within two years following a change in control, or grant the plan committee discretion to accelerate awards upon a change of control. Further, certain agreements between us and our executive officers provide for increased severance payments and certain benefits if those executive officers are terminated without cause by us or if they terminate for good reason, in each case within two years following a change in control or within ninety days prior to the effective date of the change in control or after the first public announcement of the pendency of the change in control. Adverse changes in supplier rebates or other purchasing incentives could negatively affect our business. The terms on which we purchase or sell products from many suppliers may entitle us to receive a rebate or other purchasing incentive based on the attainment of certain growth goals. Suppliers may reduce or eliminate rebates or incentives offered under their programs, or increase the growth goals or other conditions we must meet to earn rebates or incentives to levels that we cannot achieve. Increased competition either from generic or equivalent branded products could result in us failing to earn rebates or incentives that are conditioned upon achievement of growth goals. Additionally, factors outside of our control, such as customer preferences, consolidation of suppliers or supply issues, can have a material impact on our ability to achieve the growth goals established by our suppliers, 27 which may reduce the amount of rebates or incentives we receive. The occurrence of any of these events could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or operating results. Sales of corporate brand products entail additional risks, including the risk that such sales could adversely affect our relationships with suppliers. We offer certain corporate brand products that are available exclusively from us. The sale of such products subjects us to the risks generally encountered by entities that source, market and sell corporate brand products, including but not limited to potential product liability risks, mandatory or voluntary product recalls, potential supply chain and distribution chain disruptions, and potential intellectual property infringement risks. Any failure to adequately address some or all of these risks could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. In addition, an increase in the sales of our corporate brand products may negatively affect our sales of products owned by our suppliers which, consequently, could adversely impact certain of our supplier relationships. Our ability to locate qualified, economically stable suppliers who satisfy our requirements, and to acquire sufficient products in a timely and effective manner, is critical to ensuring, among other things, that customer confidence is not diminished. In addition, we are exposed to the risk that our competitors or our large customers may introduce their own private label, generic, or low-cost products that compete with our products at lower price points. Such products could capture significant market share or decrease market prices overall, eroding our sales and margins. Any failure to develop sourcing relationships with a broad and deep supplier base could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. INDUSTRY RISKS Security risks generally associated with our information systems and our technology products and services have in the recent past adversely affected our business and results of operations, and could in the future materially adversely affect our business and our results of operations if such products, services, or systems (or third-party systems we rely on) are interrupted, damaged by unforeseen events, are subject to cyberattacks or fail for any extended period of time. We rely on information systems (“IS”) in our business to obtain, rapidly process, analyze, manage and store customer, product, supplier and employee data to, among other things: • maintain and manage worldwide systems to facilitate the purchase and distribution of thousands of inventory items from numerous distribution centers; • receive, process and ship orders on a timely basis; • manage the accurate billing and collections for our customers; • process payments to suppliers; • provide products and services that maintain certain of our customers’ electronic medical or dental records (including protected health information of their patients); and • maintain and manage global human resources, compensation and payroll systems. In addition to health information in our customers’ electronic medical and dental records, certain of our IS stores other sensitive personal and financial information, such as healthcare and other information related to our employees, as well as other sensitive information such as credit card information from our third-party business partners, that is confidential, and in many cases subject to privacy laws. Our IS are vulnerable to, among other things, natural disasters, power losses, computer viruses, telecommunication failures, cybersecurity threats and other criminal activity. Information security risks have significantly increased in recent years in part because of an overall increase in cyber incidents, their increased sophistication, and the involvement of organized crime, hackers, terrorists and foreign state agents. The healthcare industry in particular has been targeted by threat actors seeking to undermine companies’ cybersecurity defensive measures. We have processes in place intended to ensure that our security measures keep pace with new and emerging risks. We regularly review, monitor and implement multiple layers of security through technology, processes and our people. We utilize security technologies designed to protect and maintain the integrity of our IS and data, and our 28 defenses are monitored and routinely tested internally and by external parties. Despite these efforts, our facilities and systems and those of our third-party service providers have been, and may in the future be, vulnerable to privacy and security incidents, cybersecurity attacks and data breaches, acts of vandalism or theft, computer viruses and other malicious code, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors, attacks or other acts undermining IS of third party business partners including our customers, or other similar events that could impact the security, reliability and availability of our systems. In addition, hardware, software or applications developed internally or procured from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could unexpectedly compromise information security. As a practical matter, so long as we depend on IS to operate our business, and our business partners do the same, there can be no guaranty that such measures will successfully stop any one particular cybersecurity incident given the constantly evolving nature of the threat. We may also incur substantial costs as we update our cybersecurity defense systems and our general computer controls to meet evolving challenges, and legislative or regulatory action related to cybersecurity may increase our costs to develop or implement new technology products and services. A cyberattack that bypasses or compromises our IS cybersecurity / or general information technology (“IT”) controls (including third-party systems we rely on) causing an IS security breach may lead, and has in the past led, to a disruption of our IS business systems (including third-party systems we rely on), interruption of operations (including, without limitation, receiving, verifying, and processing customer orders, customer service, accounts payable, warehouse management and shipping, and systems tied to internal controls over financial reporting), the loss or alteration of business, financial, and other protected information, a negative impact on our financial performance, and to an adverse impact on our financial accounting and reporting controls. A cyberattack that bypasses or compromises our IS cybersecurity / or general computer controls or those of third parties with whom we engage may also lead to claims against us by affected parties and/or governmental agencies, and involve fines and penalties, as well as substantial defense and settlement expenses. Any of these impacts may alone, or collectively, have a material impact on our business. A successful cyberattack has, and may again in the future, disrupt our business operations, adversely impact our financial accounting and reporting of results of operations, divert the attention of management, and adversely impact our results of operations. In addition, we develop products and provide services to our customers that are technology-based, and a cyberattack that bypasses the IS supporting our products or services causing a security breach and/or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products or services could also cause significant loss of business and reputational harm, and actual or perceived vulnerabilities may lead to claims against us by our customers and/or governmental agencies. In addition, certain of our practice management products and services purchased by health care providers, such as physicians and dentists, are used to store and manage patient medical or dental records. These customers are subject to laws and regulations which require that they protect the privacy and security of those records, and our products may be used as part of these customers’ comprehensive data security programs, including in connection with their efforts to comply with applicable privacy and security laws. In addition to immaterial and unrelated prior incidents at certain of our subsidiaries, in October 2023, Henry Schein experienced a cybersecurity incident that primarily affected the operations of our North American and European dental and medical distribution businesses. Henry Schein One, our practice management software, revenue cycle management and patient relationship management solutions business was not affected, and our manufacturing businesses were mostly unaffected. Once we became aware of the issue, we took steps to assess, contain and remediate this incident. We restored affected systems and applications, our distribution operations resumed and we reactivated our ecommerce platform. We also notified law enforcement and our employees, customers, suppliers and investors, informing them of both the incident and management’s efforts to mitigate its impact on our daily operations and data maintained on the Company’s systems. Subsequently, on or about November 8, 2023, we determined that the threat actor obtained personal and sensitive information maintained on our systems belonging to certain third parties and since that date we have notified affected parties and potentially affected parties as appropriate. The scope of personal and sensitive data impacted is still under investigation. On November 22, 2023, we experienced a related disruption to our ecommerce platform and related applications, which has since been remediated. The October 2023 cybersecurity incident disrupted key business operations, adversely impacted our financial results for the fourth quarter and full year 2023, diverted attention of management, and caused the Company to incur significant remediation costs. We continue to review the effects of the incident on the Company’s business as we do expect some short-term residual impact on our financial results in 2024. In January 29 2024, two putative class actions were filed against us based on the incident and one of these actions is still pending. We are spending, and plan to expend in the future, additional resources to continue to protect against, or to address problems caused by, business interruptions, and data security breaches. In addition, customers and suppliers may impose additional cybersecurity requirements on us as a result of the incident we experienced in October 2023, and some customers and suppliers have made such requests to date. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to satisfy such additional requirements, and failure to satisfy such requirements could result in a loss of revenue or diminished product availability that could materially affect our business adversely. We also may be perceived as a more vulnerable target of the cyber hackers as a result of the October 2023 incident. If the Company is subject to more attacks in the future as a result of the recent incident, this could materially affect our business adversely. We maintain cyber insurance, subject to certain retentions and policy limitations. With respect to the October 2023 cybersecurity incident, we have a $60 million insurance policy, following a $5 million retention. The health care products distribution industry is highly competitive (including, without limitation, competition from third-party online commerce sites) and consolidating, and we may not be able to compete successfully. We compete with numerous companies, including several major manufacturers and distributors. Some of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do, which could allow them to compete more successfully. Most of our products are available from several sources and our customers tend to have relationships with several distributors. Competitors could obtain exclusive rights to market particular products, which we would then be unable to market. Manufacturers also could increase their efforts to sell directly to end-users and thereby eliminate or reduce our role in distribution. Industry consolidation among health care product distributors and manufacturers, price competition, product unavailability, whether due to our inability to gain access to products or to interruptions in manufacturing supply, or the emergence of new competitors, also could increase competition. Consolidation has also increased among manufacturers of health care products, which could have a material adverse effect on our margins and product availability. We could be subject to charges and financial losses in the event we fail to satisfy minimum purchase commitments contained in some of our contracts. Additionally, traditional health care supply and distribution relationships are being challenged by electronic online commerce solutions. The continued advancement of online commerce by third parties will require us to cost-effectively adapt to changing technologies, to enhance existing services and to differentiate our business (including with additional value-added services) to address changing demands of consumers and our customers on a timely basis. The emergence of such potential competition and our inability to anticipate and effectively respond to changes on a timely basis could have a material adverse effect on our business. The health care industry is experiencing changes due to political, economic and regulatory influences that could materially adversely affect our business. The health care industry is highly regulated and subject to changing political, economic, and regulatory influences. In recent years, the health care industry has undergone, and is in the process of undergoing, significant changes driven by various efforts to reduce costs, including, among other factors: trends toward managed care; collective purchasing arrangements and consolidation among office-based health care practitioners; and changes in reimbursements to customers, including increased attention to value-based payment arrangements, as well as growing enforcement activities (and related monetary recoveries) by governmental officials. Both our profitability and the profitability of our customers may be materially adversely affected by laws and regulations reducing reimbursement rates for pharmaceuticals, medical supplies and devices, and/or medical treatments or services, or changes to the methodology by which reimbursement levels are determined. If we are unable to react effectively to these and other changes in the health care industry, our business could be materially adversely affected. The ACA greatly expanded health insurance coverage in the United States and has been the target of litigation and Congressional reform efforts since its adoption. Any outcome of future court cases that change the ACA, in addition to future legislation, regulation, guidance and/or Executive Orders that do the same, could have a significant impact on the U.S. healthcare industry and the ability or willingness of individuals to engage with it. 30 Expansion of GPOs, DSOs or provider networks and the multi-tiered costing structure may place us at a competitive disadvantage. The health care products industry is subject to a multi-tiered costing structure, which can vary by manufacturer and/or product. Under this structure, certain institutions can obtain more favorable prices for health care products than we are able to obtain. The multi-tiered costing structure continues to expand as many large integrated health care providers and others with significant purchasing power, such as GPOs and DSOs, demand more favorable pricing terms. Additionally, the formation of provider networks, GPOs and DSOs may shift purchasing decisions to entities or persons with whom we do not have a historical relationship and may threaten our ability to compete effectively, which could in turn negatively impact our financial results. In addition, such organizations may establish direct relationships with manufacturers, thereby either eliminating or reducing the services historically provided by distributors. Although we are seeking to obtain similar terms from manufacturers to access lower prices demanded by GPO and DSO contracts or other contracts, and to develop relationships with existing and emerging provider networks, GPOs and DSOs, we cannot guarantee that such terms will be obtained or contracts executed. Increases in shipping costs or service issues with our third-party shippers could harm our business. Our ability to meet our customers’ expedited delivery expectations is an integral component of our business strategy for which our customers rely. Shipping is a significant expense in the operation of our business. We ship almost all of our orders through third-party delivery services, and typically bear the cost of shipment. Accordingly, any significant increase in shipping rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. While we have recently experienced increases in the cost of shipping, we do not expect these additional expenses to be material to our results. However, it is possible that such costs could be material in the future. Similarly, strikes or other service interruptions by those shippers, including at transportation centers or shipping ports, could cause our operating expenses to rise and materially adversely affect our ability to deliver products on a timely basis. MACRO-ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL RISKS Uncertain global and domestic macro-economic and political conditions could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Uncertain global and domestic macro-economic and political conditions that affect the economy and the economic outlook of the United States, Europe, Asia, and other parts of the world could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. These uncertainties, include, among other things: • election results; • changes to laws and policies governing foreign trade, tariffs and sanctions, or greater restrictions on imports and exports; • supply chain disruptions; • changes in laws and policies governing health care or data privacy; • changes to the relationship between the United States and China; • sovereign debt levels; • the inability of political institutions to effectively resolve actual or perceived economic, currency or budgetary crises or issues; • consumer confidence; • unemployment levels (and a corresponding increase in the uninsured and underinsured population); • changes in regulatory and tax regulations; • interest rate fluctuations, and strengthening of the dollar, which have and will continue to impact our results of operations; • availability of capital; • increases in fuel and energy costs; • the effect of inflation on our ability to procure products and our ability to increase prices over time and pass through to our customers price increases we may receive; 31 • changes in tax rates and the availability of certain tax deductions; • increases in labor costs or health care costs; • the threat or outbreak of war, terrorism or public unrest (including, without limitation, the war in Ukraine, the Israel-Gaza war and other unrest and threats in the Middle East, and the possibility of a wider European or global conflict); and • changes in laws and policies governing manufacturing, development, and investment in territories and countries where we do business. Additionally, changes in government, government debt and/or budget crises may lead to reductions in government spending in certain countries, which could reduce overall health care spending, and/or higher income or corporate taxes, which could depress spending overall. Recessionary or inflationary conditions and depressed levels of consumer and commercial spending may also cause customers to reduce, modify, delay, or cancel plans to purchase our products and may cause suppliers to reduce their output or change their terms of sale. We have experienced inflationary pressures, including higher freight costs and interest expense. Although inflation impacts both our revenues and costs, the depth and breadth of our product portfolio often allows us to offer lower-cost national brand solutions or corporate brand alternatives to our more price-sensitive customers who are unable to absorb price increases, thus positioning us to protect our gross profit. The strengthening of the dollar, likewise, has impacted our revenues and costs, but neither inflation nor exchange rates have materially impacted our results of operations in fiscal year 2023. We generally sell products to customers with payment terms. If customers’ cash flow or operating and financial performance deteriorate, or if they are unable to make scheduled payments or obtain credit, they may not be able to, or may delay, payment to us. Likewise, for similar reasons suppliers may restrict credit or impose different payment terms. REGULATORY AND LITIGATION RISKS Failure to comply with existing and future regulatory requirements could materially adversely affect our business. We strive to be compliant with the applicable laws, regulations and guidance described below in all material respects, and believe we have effective compliance programs and other controls in place to ensure substantial compliance. However, compliance is not guaranteed either now or in the future as certain laws, regulations and guidance may be subject to varying and evolving interpretations that could affect our ability to comply, as well as, future changes, additions and enforcement approaches, including in light of political changes. When we discover situations of non-compliance we seek to remedy them and bring the affected area back into compliance. Changes with respect to the applicable laws, regulations and guidance described below may require us to update or revise our operations, services, marketing practices, and compliance programs and controls, and may impose additional and unforeseen costs on us, pose new or previously immaterial risks to us, or may otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business. There can be no assurance that current and future government regulations will not adversely affect our business, and we cannot predict new regulatory priorities, the form, content or timing of regulatory actions, and their impact on the health care industry and on our business and operations. Global efforts toward healthcare cost containment continue to exert pressure on product pricing. In the United States, in addition to other government efforts to control health care costs, there has been increased scrutiny on drug pricing and concurrent efforts to control or reduce drug costs by Congress, the President, executive branch agencies and various states. We and our subsidiaries may be required to report drug pricing data under federal laws and regulations. At the state level, several states have adopted laws, that may apply to some of our operations, that require drug manufacturers, including re-packagers or re-labelers, to provide advance notice of certain price increases and to report information relating to those price increases, while others have taken legislative or administrative action to establish prescription drug affordability boards or multi-payer purchasing pools to reduce the cost of prescription drugs. At the federal level, several related bills have been introduced and regulations proposed which, if enacted or finalized, respectively, would impact drug pricing and related costs. Under the Sunshine Act, we are required to collect and report detailed information regarding certain financial relationships we have with covered recipients, including physicians, dentists, teaching hospitals, and certain other non-physician practitioners. We and our subsidiaries may be required to report information under certain state 32 transparency laws that address circumstances not covered by the Sunshine Act, and some of these state laws, as well as the federal law, can be unclear. We are also subject to foreign regulations requiring transparency of certain interactions between suppliers and their customers. While we believe we have substantially compliant programs and controls in place satisfying the above laws and requirements, such compliance imposes additional costs on us and the requirements are sometimes unclear. In the United States, government actions to seek to increase health- related price transparency may also affect our business. Our business is subject to additional requirements under various local, state, federal and international laws and regulations applicable to the sale and distribution of, and third-party payment for, pharmaceuticals and medical devices and HCT/P products. Among the federal laws with which we must comply are the Controlled Substances Act, the FDC Act, the Federal Drug Quality and Security Act, including DSCSA, Section 361 of the Public Health Services Act and Section 401 of the Consolidated Appropriations Act of the Social Security Act. Among other things, such laws, and the regulations promulgated thereunder: • regulate the introduction, manufacture, advertising, marketing and promotion, sampling, pricing and reimbursement, labeling, packaging, storage, handling, returning or recalling, reporting, and distribution of, and record keeping for drugs, HCT/P products and medical devices, including requirements with respect to unique medical device identifiers; • subject us to inspection by the FDA and DEA and similar state authorities; • regulate the storage, transportation and disposal of certain of our products that are considered hazardous materials; • require us to advertise and promote our drugs and devices in accordance with applicable FDA requirements; • require us to report average sales price (ASP) for drugs or biologicals payable under Medicare Part B to CMS with or without a Medicaid drug rebate agreement; • require registration with the FDA and the DEA and various state agencies; • require record keeping and documentation of transactions involving drug products; • require us to design and operate a system to identify and report suspicious orders of controlled substances to the DEA and certain states; • require us to manage returns of products that have been recalled and subject us to inspection of our recall procedures and activities; • impose on us reporting requirements if a pharmaceutical, HCT/P product or medical device causes serious illness, injury or death; • require manufacturers, wholesalers, re-packagers and dispensers of prescription drugs to identify and trace certain prescription drugs as they are distributed; • require the licensing of prescription drug wholesalers and third-party logistics providers; and • mandate compliance with standards for the recordkeeping, storage and handling of prescription drugs, and associated reporting requirements. The FDA has become increasingly active in addressing the regulation of computer software and digital health products intended for use in health care settings. The Cures Act, signed into law on December 13, 2016, among other things, amended the medical device definition to exclude certain software from FDA regulation, including certain clinical decision support software. On September 27, 2019, the FDA issued a suite of guidance documents on digital health products, which incorporated applicable Cures Act standards, and on September 28, 2022, the FDA subsequently finalized certain of these guidance documents, including regarding the types of clinical decision support tools and other software that are exempt from regulation by the FDA as medical devices, and the FDA continues to issue new guidance in this area. Certain of our businesses involve the development and sale of software and related products to support physician and dental practice management, and it is possible that the FDA or foreign government authorities could determine that one or more of our products is subject to regulation as a medical device, which could subject us or one or more of our businesses to substantial additional requirements, costs and potential enforcement actions or liabilities for noncompliance with respect to these products. Some of our imaging software is regulated as a medical device which subjects our businesses to substantial additional requirements, costs and potential enforcement actions or liabilities for noncompliance with respect to these products. 33 Applicable federal, state, local, and foreign laws and regulations also may require us to meet various standards relating to, among other things, licensure or registration, program eligibility, procurement, third-party reimbursement, sales and marketing practices, product integrity, and supply tracking to product manufacturers, product labeling, personnel, privacy and security of health or other personal information, installation, maintenance and repair of equipment and the importation and exportation of products. The FDA and DEA, as well as CMS (including with respect to complex Medicare reimbursement requirements applicable to our specialty home medical supplies business) and state Medicaid agencies, have recently increased their regulatory and enforcement activities and, in particular, the DEA has heightened enforcement activities due to the opioid crisis in the United States. Our business is also subject to requirements of similar and other foreign governmental laws and regulations affecting our operations abroad. The failure to comply with any of these laws or regulations, or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, or the imposition of any additional laws and regulations, could materially adversely affect our business. The costs to us associated with complying with the various applicable statutes and regulations, as they now exist and as they may be modified, could be material. Allegations by a governmental body that we have not complied with these laws could have a material adverse effect on our businesses. While we believe that we are substantially compliant with applicable laws and regulations, and believe we have adequate compliance programs and controls in place to ensure substantial compliance, if it is determined that we have not complied with these laws, we are potentially subject to warning letters, substantial civil and criminal penalties, mandatory recall of product, seizure of product and injunction, consent decrees and suspension or limitation of payments to us, product sale and distribution. If we enter into settlement agreements to resolve allegations of non-compliance, we could be required to make settlement payments or be subject to civil and criminal penalties, including fines and the loss of licenses. Non-compliance with government requirements could also adversely affect our ability to participate in important federal and state government health care programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and damage our reputation. The EU Medical Device Regulation (“MDR”) may adversely affect our business. The EU MDR, applicable since May 26, 2021, significantly modifies and intensifies the regulatory compliance requirements for the medical device industry as a whole. Among other things, the EU MDR: • strengthens the rules on placing devices on the market and reinforces surveillance once they are available; • establishes explicit provisions on manufacturers’ responsibilities for the follow-up of the quality, performance and safety of devices placed on the market; • improves the traceability of medical devices throughout the supply chain to the end-user or patient through a unique identification number; • sets up a central database to provide patients, healthcare professionals and the public with comprehensive information on products available in the EU; • strengthens rules for the assessment of certain high-risk devices, such as implants, which may have to undergo an additional check by experts before they are placed on the market; and • identifies importers and distributors and medical device products through registration in a database (EUDAMED not due, for the time being, until the end of 2027 at the earliest, as mentioned above). In particular, the EU MDR imposes strict requirements for the confirmation that a product meets the regulatory requirements, including regarding a product’s clinical evaluation and a company’s quality systems, and for the distribution, marketing and sale of medical devices, including post-market surveillance. As mentioned above, pursuant to Regulation 2023/607 and subject to certain conditions, medical devices that (i) obtained a certificate under the EU Medical Device Directive from May 25, 2017, (ii) which was still valid on May 26, 2021, and (iii) has not been subsequently withdrawn may, for the moment, continue to be placed on the market or put into service until December 31, 2027 for higher risk devices or December 31, 2028 for medium and lower risk devices. Nevertheless, EU MDR requirements regarding the distribution, marketing and sale including quality systems and post-market surveillance have to be observed by manufacturers, importers and distributors as of the application date (i.e., May 26, 2021). The modifications created by the EU MDR may have an impact on the way we design and manufacture products and the way we conduct our business in the EEA. 34 If we fail to comply with laws and regulations relating to health care fraud or other laws and regulations, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations, which could materially adversely affect our business. Certain of our businesses are subject to federal and state (and similar foreign) health care fraud and abuse, referral and reimbursement laws and regulations with respect to their operations. Some of these laws, referred to as “false claims laws,” prohibit the submission or causing the submission of false or fraudulent claims for reimbursement to federal, state, and other health care payers and programs. Other laws, referred to as “anti-kickback laws,” prohibit soliciting, offering, receiving or paying remuneration in order to induce or reward the referral of a patient or ordering, purchasing, leasing or arranging for, or recommending ordering, purchasing or leasing of, items or services that are paid for by federal, state and other health care payers and programs. Certain additional state and federal laws, such as the federal Physician Self-Referral Law, commonly known as the “Stark Law,” prohibit physicians and other health care professionals from referring a patient to an entity with which the physician (or family member) has a financial relationship, for the furnishing of certain designated health services (for example, durable medical equipment and medical supplies), unless an exception applies. Violations of Anti-Kickback statutes or the Stark Law may be enforced as violations of the federal False Claims Act. The fraud and abuse laws and regulations have been subject to heightened enforcement activity over the past few years, and significant enforcement activity has been the result of “relators” who serve as whistleblowers by filing complaints in the name of the United States (and if applicable, particular states) under applicable false claims laws, and who may receive up to 30% of total government recoveries. Penalties under fraud and abuse laws may be severe, including treble damages and substantial civil penalties under the federal False Claims Act, as well as potential loss of licenses and the ability to participate in federal and state health care programs, criminal penalties, or imposition of a corporate compliance monitor, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Also, these measures may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require us to make changes in our operations or incur substantial defense and settlement expenses. Even unsuccessful challenges by regulatory authorities or private relators could result in reputational harm and the incurring of substantial costs. Most states have adopted similar state false claims laws, and these state laws have their own penalties which may be in addition to federal False Claims Act penalties, as well as other fraud and abuse laws. With respect to measures of this type, the United States government (among others) has expressed concerns about financial relationships between suppliers on the one hand and physicians, dentists, and other health care providers, on the other. As a result, we regularly review and revise our marketing practices as necessary to facilitate compliance. Our aspirations, goals and disclosures related to environmental, social and governance matters and the focus on regulators and private litigants among other things on related claims made by companies and funds expose us to numerous risks, including reputational, financial, legal and other risks, that could have an adverse impact on us, including on our stock price. California has adopted stringent new climate disclosure requirements, as has the EU, and the SEC appears about to adopt expansive new disclosure requirements on climate change. In the EU, the Directive No. 2019/1937 of October 23, 2019, on the protection of persons who report breaches of Union law, organizes the legal protection of whistleblowers. This Directive covers whistleblowers reporting breaches of certain EU laws, in particular as regards public health, the above-mentioned Directive No. 2001/83, Regulation No. 726/2004 or, as regards data protection, the GDPR. The Directive protects a wide range of people and includes former employees. All private companies with 50 or more employees are required to create effective internal reporting channels. All EU Member States other than Poland and Estonia have now implemented the Directive. We also are subject to the requirements of the new Directive No. 2022/2464 on corporate sustainability reporting (“CSR Directive”) adopted on December 14, 2022 and which has to be implemented by EU members states by July 6, 2024, at the latest. By amending Directives No. 2004/109, No. 2006/43, No. 2013/34 and Regulation No. 537/2014, the CSR Directive strengthens the existing rules on non-financial reporting by setting new requirements for large companies to publish sustainability-related information and, in particular, disclose details about their risks and impacts on environmental matters. 35 We also are subject to certain United States and foreign laws and regulations concerning the conduct of our foreign operations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, German anti-corruption laws and other anti-bribery laws and laws pertaining to the accuracy of our internal books and records, which have been the focus of increasing enforcement activity globally in recent years. Our businesses are generally subject to numerous other laws and regulations that could impact our financial results, including, without limitation, securities, antitrust, consumer protection, and marketing laws and regulations. In the EU, both active and passive bribery are criminalized. The EU Council Framework Decision 2003/568/JHA of 22 July 2003 on combating corruption in the private sector establishes more detailed rules on the liability of legal persons and deterrent sanctions. However, the liability of legal persons is regulated at a national level. Failure to comply with fraud and abuse laws and regulations, and other laws and regulations, could result in significant civil and criminal penalties and costs, including the loss of licenses and the ability to participate in federal and state health care programs, and could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may determine to enter into settlements, make payments, agree to consent decrees or enter into other arrangements to resolve such matters. Intentional or unintentional failure to comply with settlement agreements or consent decrees could materially adversely affect our business. While we believe that we are substantially compliant with applicable fraud and abuse and other laws and regulations, and believe we have adequate compliance programs and controls in place to ensure substantial compliance, we cannot predict whether changes in applicable law, or interpretation of laws, or changes in our services or marketing practices in response to changes in applicable law or interpretation of laws, could have a material adverse effect on our business. If we fail to comply with laws and regulations relating to the collection, storage and processing of sensitive personal information or standards in electronic health records or transmissions, we could be required to make significant changes to our products, or incur substantial fines, penalties, or other liabilities. Our businesses that involve physician and dental practice management products, and our specialty home medical supply businesses, include electronic information technology systems that store and process personal health, clinical, financial, and other sensitive information of individuals. These information technology systems may be vulnerable to breakdown, wrongful intrusions, data breaches and malicious attack, which could require us to expend significant resources to eliminate these problems and address related security concerns, and could involve claims against us by private parties and/or governmental agencies. We are directly or indirectly subject to numerous and evolving federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that protect the privacy and security of personal information, such as HIPAA, CAN-SPAM, TCPA, Section 5 of the FTC Act, the CCPA, and the CPRA that became effective on January 1, 2023. Laws and regulations relating to privacy and data protection are continually evolving and subject to potentially differing interpretations. These requirements may not be harmonized, may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another or may conflict with other rules or our practices. Our businesses’ failure to comply with these laws and regulations could expose us to breach of contract claims, substantial fines, penalties and other liabilities and expenses, costs for remediation and harm to our reputation. Also, evolving laws and regulations in this area could restrict the ability of our customers to obtain, use or disseminate patient information, or could require us to incur significant additional costs to re-design our products to reflect these legal requirements, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. In addition, the European Parliament and the Council of the EU adopted the GDPR effective from May 25, 2018, which increased privacy rights for Data Subjects, including individuals who are our customers, suppliers and employees. The GDPR extended the scope of responsibilities for data controllers and data processors, and generally imposes increased requirements and potential penalties on companies, such as us, that are either established in the EU and process personal data of Data Subjects (regardless the Data Subject location), or that are not established in the EU but that offer goods or services to Data Subjects in the EU or monitor their behavior in the EU. Noncompliance can result in penalties of up to the greater of EUR 20 million, or 4% of global company revenues (sanction that may be public), and Data Subjects may seek damages. Member states may individually impose additional requirements and penalties regarding certain limited matters (for which the GDPR left some 36 room of flexibility), such as employee personal data. With respect to the personal data it protects, the GDPR requires, among other things, controller accountability, consents from Data Subjects or another acceptable legal basis to process the personal data, notification within 72 hours of a personal data breach where required, data integrity and security, and fairness and transparency regarding the storage, use or other processing of the personal data. The GDPR also provides rights to Data Subjects relating notably to information, access, rectification, erasure of the personal data and the right to object to the processing. On August 20, 2021, China promulgated the PIPL, which took effect on November 1, 2021. The PIPL imposes specific rules for processing personal information and it also specifies that the law shall also apply to personal information activities carried out outside China but for the purpose of providing products or services to PRC citizens. Any non-compliance with these laws and regulations may subject us to fines, orders to rectify or terminate any actions that are deemed illegal by regulatory authorities, other penalties, as well as reputational damage or legal proceedings against us, which may affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The PIPL carries maximum penalties of CNY50 million or 5% of the annual revenue of entities that process personal data. In the United States, the CCPA, which increases the privacy protections afforded California residents, became effective January 1, 2020. The CCPA generally requires companies, such as us, to institute additional protections regarding the collection, use and disclosure of certain personal information of California residents. Compliance with the obligations imposed by the CCPA depends in part on how particular regulators interpret and apply them. Regulations were released in August of 2020, but there remains some uncertainty about how the CCPA will be interpreted by the courts and enforced by the regulators. If we fail to comply with the CCPA or if regulators assert that we have failed to comply with the CCPA, we may be subject to certain fines or other penalties and litigation, any of which may negatively impact our reputation, require us to expend significant resources, and harm our business. Furthermore, California voters approved the CPRA on November 3, 2020, which will amend and expand the CCPA, including by providing consumers with additional rights with respect to their personal information, and creating a new state agency to enforce CCPA and CPRA. The CPRA came into effect on January 1, 2023, applying to information collected by businesses on or after January 1, 2022. Other states, as well as the federal government, have increasingly considered the adoption of similarly expansive personal privacy laws, backed by significant civil penalties for non-compliance. While we believe we have substantially compliant programs and controls in place to comply with the GDPR, CCPA, PIPL and CPRA requirements, our compliance with data privacy and cybersecurity laws is likely to impose additional costs on us, and we cannot predict whether the interpretations of the requirements, or changes in our practices in response to new requirements or interpretations of the requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We also sell products and services that health care providers, such as physicians and dentists, use to store and manage patient medical or dental records. These customers and we are subject to laws, regulations and industry standards, such as HIPAA and the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards, which require the protection of the privacy and security of those records. Our products or services may be used as part of these customers’ comprehensive data security programs, including in connection with their efforts to comply with applicable data privacy and security laws and contractual requirements. Perceived or actual security vulnerabilities in our products or services, or the perceived or actual failure by us or our customers who use our products or services to comply with applicable legal or contractual data privacy and security requirements, may not only cause us significant reputational harm, but may also lead to claims against us by our customers and/or governmental agencies and involve substantial fines, penalties and other liabilities and expenses and costs for remediation. Additionally, under the GDPR, health data belong to the category of “sensitive data” and benefit from specific protection. Processing of such data is generally prohibited, except for specific exceptions. Certain of our businesses involve the manufacture and sale of electronic health record (EHR) systems and other products linked to government supported incentive programs, where the EHR systems must be certified as having certain capabilities designated in evolving standards, such as those adopted by CMS and ONC. In order to maintain certification of our EHR products, we must satisfy the changing governmental standards. If any other EHR systems do not meet these standards, yet have been relied upon by health care providers to receive federal incentive payments, we may be exposed to risk, such as under federal health care fraud and abuse laws, including the False Claims Act. Additionally, effective September 1, 2023, the OIG for HHS issued a final rule implementing civil money penalties for information blocking as established by the Cures Act. OIG incorporated regulations published 37 by ONC as the basis for enforcing information blocking penalties. Each information blocking violation carries a $1 million penalty. While we believe we are substantially in compliance with such certifications and with applicable fraud and abuse laws and regulations and that we have adequate compliance programs and controls in place to ensure substantial compliance, we cannot predict whether changes in applicable law, or interpretation of laws, or resulting changes in our compliance programs and controls, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Moreover, in order to satisfy our customers and comply with evolving legal requirements, our products may need to incorporate increasingly complex functionality, such as with respect to reporting and information blocking. Although we believe we are positioned to accomplish this, the effort may involve increased costs, and our failure to implement product modifications, or otherwise satisfy applicable standards, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, as electronic medical devices are increasingly connected to each other and to other technology, the ability of these connected systems to safely and effectively exchange and use exchanged information becomes increasingly important. As a medical device manufacturer, we must manage risks including those associated with an electronic interface that is incorporated into a medical device. Tax legislation could materially adversely affect our financial results and tax liabilities. We are subject to the tax laws and regulations of the United States federal, state, and local governments, as well as foreign jurisdictions. From time to time, various legislative initiatives may be proposed that could materially adversely affect our tax positions. There can be no assurance that our effective tax rate will not be materially adversely affected by legislation resulting from these initiatives. In addition, tax laws and regulations are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. Although we believe that our historical tax positions are sound and consistent with applicable laws, regulations and existing precedent, there can be no assurance that our tax positions will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that we would be successful in any such challenge. We face inherent risk of exposure to product liability, intellectual property infringement and other claims in the event that the use of the products we sell results in injury. Our business involves a risk of product liability, intellectual property infringement and other claims in the ordinary course of business, and from time to time we are named as a defendant in cases as a result of our distribution of products. Additionally, we own interests in companies that manufacture certain dental and medical products. As a result, we could be subject to the potential risk of product liability, intellectual property infringement or other claims relating to the manufacture and distribution of products by those entities. In addition, as our corporate brand business continues to grow, purchasers of such products may increasingly seek recourse directly from us, rather than the ultimate product manufacturer, for product-related claims. Another potential risk we face in the distribution of our products is liability resulting from counterfeit or tainted products infiltrating the supply chain. In addition, some of the products that we transport and sell are considered hazardous materials. The improper handling of such materials or accidents involving the transportation of such materials could subject us to liability or at least legal action that could harm our reputation. Customs policies or legislative import restrictions could hinder the Company’s ability to import goods necessary to our operations on a timely basis and result in government enforcement actions and/or sanctions. Government-imposed import policies and legislation regulating the import of goods and prohibiting the use of forced labor or human trafficking could result in delays or the inability to import goods in a timely manner that are necessary to our operations, and such policies or legislation could also result in financial penalties, other sanctions, government enforcement actions and reputational harm. While the Company has policies against and seeks to avoid the import of goods that are manufactured in whole or in part by forced labor or through human trafficking, as a result of legislative and governmental policy initiatives, we may be subject to increasing potential delays, added costs, supply chain disruption and other restrictions. GENERAL RISKS Our business operations, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and liquidity may be negatively 38 impacted by the effects of disease outbreaks, epidemics, pandemics, or similar wide-spread public health concerns and other natural or man-made disasters, such as terrorism, civil unrest, fire, and extreme weather . Our business operations, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and liquidity may be negatively impacted by the effects of disease outbreaks, epidemics, pandemics, similar wide-spread public health concerns and other natural or man-made disasters, such as terrorism, civil unrest, fire, and extreme weather (“disasters”). For example, as a global healthcare solutions company, the COVID-19 pandemic and the governmental responses to it had, and may again have, a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows and may result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and liquidity. The impacts and potential impacts from the COVID-19 pandemic included, and could include as a result of other disasters, the following, among other impacts: • significant volatility in supply, demand and selling prices for personal protective equipment (PPE), test kits and related products; • reduction in peoples’ ability and willingness to be in public; • reduction in peoples’ ability and willingness to seek elective care; • interrupted operations of industries that use or manufacture the products we distribute; • impact of adapted business practices; • significant changes in political conditions; • volatility in the financial market; and • unavailability or impairment of our manufacturing, distribution, or other facilities, or firmwide systems such as our information systems. The impact from disasters may also exacerbate other risks discussed herein, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us. Our global operations are subject to inherent risks that could materially adversely affect our business. Our global operations are subject to risks that could materially adversely affect our business. The risks that our global operations are subject to include, among other things: • difficulties and costs relating to staffing and managing foreign operations; • difficulties and delays inherent in sourcing products, establishing channels of distribution and contract manufacturing in foreign markets; • fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies; • uncertainties relating to trade agreements and international trade relationships; • longer payment cycles of foreign customers and difficulty of collecting receivables in foreign jurisdictions; • repatriation of cash from our foreign operations to the United States; • regulatory requirements, including, without limitation, anti-bribery, anti-corruption and laws pertaining to the accuracy of our internal books and records; • litigation risks, new or unanticipated litigation developments and the status of litigation matters; • unexpected difficulties in importing or exporting our products and import/export tariffs, quotas, sanctions or penalties; • limitations on our ability under local laws to protect our intellectual property; • unexpected regulatory, legal, economic and political changes in foreign markets; • changes in tax regulations that influence purchases of capital equipment; • civil disturbances, geopolitical turmoil, including terrorism, war or political or military coups; and • risks associated with climate change, including physical risks such as impacts from extreme weather events and other potential physical consequences, regulatory and technological requirements, market developments, stakeholder expectations and reputational risk. 39 Our future success is substantially dependent upon our senior management, and our revenues and profitability depend on our relationships with capable sales representatives, service technicians, and other personnel who interact directly with our customers, as well as customers, suppliers and manufacturers of the products that we distribute. Our future success is substantially dependent upon the efforts and abilities of members of our existing senior management, particularly Stanley M. Bergman, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. In November 2022, Mr. Bergman’s employment agreement was extended through December 31, 2025. Although the Company has an internal succession plan for its senior leadership team, including Mr. Bergman, the loss of the services of Mr. Bergman could have a material adverse effect on our business. We do not currently have “key man” life insurance policies on any of our employees. Competition for senior management is intense, burnout and turn-over rates are increasing workplace concerns, and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining key personnel. Additionally, our future revenues and profitability depend on our ability to maintain satisfactory relationships with qualified sales representatives, service technicians, and other personnel who interact directly with our customers, as well as customers, suppliers, and manufacturers. If we fail to maintain our existing relationships with such persons or fail to acquire relationships with such key persons in the future, our business may be materially adversely affected. Disruptions in the financial markets may materially adversely affect the availability and cost of credit to us. Our ability to make scheduled payments or refinance our obligations with respect to indebtedness will depend on our operating and financial performance, which in turn is subject to prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors beyond our control. Disruptions in the financial markets may materially adversely affect the availability and cost of credit to us.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements In accordance with the “Safe Harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, we provide the following cautionary remarks regarding important factors that, among others, could cause future results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements, expectations and assumptions expressed or implied herein. All forward-looking statements made by us are subject to risks and uncertainties and are not guarantees of future performance. These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance and achievements or industry results to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. These statements are generally identified by the use of such terms as “may,” “could,” “expect,” “intend,” “believe,” “plan,” “estimate,” “forecast,” “project,” “anticipate,” “to be,” “to make” or other comparable terms. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and in particular the risks discussed under the caption “Risk Factors” in Item 1A of this report and those that may be discussed in other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”). Risk factors and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from current and historical results include, but are not limited to: our dependence on third parties for the manufacture and supply of our products; our ability to develop or acquire and maintain and protect new products (particularly technology products) and technologies that achieve market acceptance with acceptable margins; transitional challenges associated with acquisitions, dispositions and joint ventures, including the failure to achieve anticipated synergies/benefits, as well as significant demands on our operations, information systems, legal, regulatory, compliance, financial and human resources functions in connection with acquisitions, dispositions and joint ventures; certain provisions in our governing documents that may discourage third-party acquisitions of us; adverse changes in supplier rebates or other purchasing incentives; risks related to the sale of corporate brand products; security risks associated with our information systems and technology products and services, such as cyberattacks or other privacy or data security breaches (including the October 2023 incident); effects of a highly competitive (including, without limitation, competition from third-party online commerce sites) and consolidating market; changes in the health care industry; risks from expansion of customer purchasing power and multi-tiered costing structures; increases in shipping costs for our products or other service issues with our third-party shippers; general global and domestic macro-economic and political conditions, including inflation, deflation, recession, ongoing wars, fluctuations in energy pricing and the value of the U.S. dollar as compared to foreign currencies, and changes to other economic indicators, international trade agreements, potential trade barriers and terrorism; geopolitical wars; failure to comply with existing and future regulatory requirements; risks associated with the EU Medical Device Regulation; failure to comply with laws and regulations relating to health care fraud or other laws and regulations; failure to comply with laws and regulations relating to the collection, storage and processing of sensitive personal information or standards in electronic health records or transmissions; changes in tax legislation; risks related to product liability, intellectual property and other claims; risks associated with customs policies or legislative import restrictions; risks associated with disease outbreaks, epidemics, pandemics (such as the COVID-19 pandemic), or similar wide-spread public health concerns and other natural or man-made disasters; risks associated with our global operations; litigation risks; new or unanticipated litigation developments and the status of litigation matters; our dependence on our senior management, employee hiring and retention, and our relationships with customers, suppliers and manufacturers; and disruptions in financial markets. The order in which these factors appear should not be construed to indicate their relative importance or priority. We caution that these factors may not be exhaustive and that many of these factors are beyond our ability to control or predict. Accordingly, any forward-looking statements contained herein should not be relied upon as a prediction of actual results. We undertake no duty and have no obligation to update forward-looking statements except as required by law. 45 Where You Can Find Important Information We may disclose important information through one or more of the following channels: SEC filings, public conference calls and webcasts, press releases, the investor relations page of our website (www.henryschein.com) and the social media channels identified on the Newsroom page of our website. Recent Developments During the years ended December 30, 2023 and December 31, 2022 we continued to experience a decrease in the sales of PPE and COVID-19 test kits as compared to the comparable prior-year periods, primarily due to lower market pricing of PPE and lower market demand for COVID-19 test kits. While the U.S. economy has recently experienced inflationary pressures and strengthening of the U.S. dollar, their impacts have not been material to our results of operations. Though inflation impacts both our revenues and costs, the depth and breadth of our product portfolio often allows us to offer lower-cost national brand solutions or corporate brand alternatives to our more price-sensitive customers who are unwilling to absorb price increases, thus positioning us to protect our gross profit. Our consolidated financial statements reflect estimates and assumptions made by us that affect, among other things, our goodwill, long-lived asset and definite-lived intangible asset valuation; inventory valuation; equity investment valuation; assessment of the annual effective tax rate; valuation of deferred income taxes and income tax contingencies; the allowance for doubtful accounts; hedging activity; supplier rebates; measurement of compensation cost for certain share-based performance awards and cash bonus plans; and pension plan assumptions. Cybersecurity Incident In addition to immaterial and unrelated prior incidents at certain of our subsidiaries, in October 2023 Henry Schein experienced a cybersecurity incident that primarily affected the operations of our North American and European dental and medical distribution businesses. Henry Schein One, our practice management software, revenue cycle management and patient relationship management solutions business, was not affected, and our manufacturing businesses were mostly unaffected. Once we became aware of the issue, we took steps to assess, contain and remediate this incident. We restored affected systems and applications, our distribution operations resumed and we reactivated our ecommerce platform. We also notified law enforcement and our employees, customers, suppliers and investors, informing them of both the incident and management’s efforts to mitigate its impact on our daily operations and data maintained on the Company’s systems. Subsequently, on or about November 8, 2023, we determined that the threat actor obtained personal and sensitive information maintained on our systems belonging to certain third parties and since that date we have notified affected and potentially affected parties as appropriate. The scope of personal and sensitive data impacted is still under investigation. On November 22, 2023, we experienced a related disruption to our ecommerce platform and related applications, which has since been remediated. As described in “Management’s Discussion & Analysis – 2023 Compared to 2022, the incident adversely impacted our financial results for the fourth quarter and full year 2023. We also expect some short-term residual impact on our financial results in 2024. We maintain cybersecurity insurance, subject to certain retentions and policy limitations. With respect to the October 2023 cybersecurity incident, we have a $60 million insurance policy, following a $5 million retention. 46 Executive-Level Overview Henry Schein, Inc. is a solutions company for health care professionals powered by a network of people and technology. We believe we are the world’s largest provider of health care products and services primarily to office- based dental and medical practitioners, as well as alternate sites of care. We serve more than one million customers worldwide including dental practitioners, laboratories, physician practices, and ambulatory surgery centers, as well as government, institutional health care clinics and other alternate care clinics. We believe that we have a strong brand identity due to our more than 91 years of experience distributing health care products. We are headquartered in Melville, New York, employ approximately 25,000 people (of which approximately 11,500 are based outside of the United States) and have operations or affiliates in 33 countries and territories. Our broad global footprint has evolved over time through our organic success as well as through contribution from strategic acquisitions. We have established strategically located distribution centers around the world to enable us to better serve our customers and increase our operating efficiency. This infrastructure, together with broad product and service offerings at competitive prices, and a strong commitment to customer service, enables us to be a single source of supply for our customers’ needs. While our primary go-to-market strategy is in our capacity as a distributor, we also market and sell our own corporate brand portfolio of cost-effective, high-quality consumable merchandise products, including in vitro diagnostic devices, manufacture certain dental specialty products in the areas of implants, orthodontics and endodontics, manufacture drug products, and repackage/relabel prescription drugs and/or devices. We have achieved scale in these global businesses primarily through acquisitions, as manufacturers of these products typically do not utilize a distribution channel to serve customers. We conduct our business through two reportable segments: (i) health care distribution and (ii) technology and value-added services. These segments offer different products and services to the same customer base. Our global dental businesses serve office-based dental practitioners, dental laboratories, schools, government and other institutions. Our medical businesses serve physician offices, urgent care centers, ambulatory care sites, emergency medical technicians, dialysis centers, home health, federal and state governments and large enterprises, such as group practices and integrated delivery networks, among other providers across a wide range of specialties. The health care distribution reportable segment, combining our global dental and medical operating segments, distributes consumable products, small equipment, laboratory products, large equipment, equipment repair services, branded and generic pharmaceuticals, vaccines, surgical products, dental specialty products (including implant, orthodontic and endodontic products), diagnostic tests, infection-control products, PPE products and vitamins. Our global technology and value-added services business provides software, technology and other value-added services to health care practitioners. Our technology business offerings include practice management software systems for dental and medical practitioners. Our value-added practice solutions include practice consultancy, education, revenue cycle management and financial services on a non-recourse basis, e-services, practice technology, network and hardware services, as well as consulting, and continuing education services for practitioners. A key element to grow closer to our customers is our One Schein initiative, which is a unified go-to-market approach that enables practitioners to work synergistically with our supply chain, equipment sales and service and other value-added services, allowing our customers to leverage the combined value that we offer through a single program. Specifically, One Schein provides customers with streamlined access to our comprehensive offering of national brand products, our corporate brand products and proprietary specialty products and solutions (including implant, orthodontic and endodontic products). In addition, customers have access to a wide range of services, including software and other value-added services. 47 Industry Overview In recent years, the health care industry has increasingly focused on cost containment. This trend has benefited distributors capable of providing a broad array of products and services at low prices. It also has accelerated the growth of HMOs, group practices, other managed care accounts and collective buying groups, which, in addition to their emphasis on obtaining products at competitive prices, tend to favor distributors capable of providing specialized management information support. We believe that the trend towards cost containment has the potential to favorably affect demand for technology solutions, including software, which can enhance the efficiency and facilitation of practice management. Our operating results in recent years have been significantly affected by strategies and transactions that we undertook to expand our business, domestically and internationally, in part to address significant changes in the health care industry, including consolidation of health care distribution companies, health care reform, trends toward managed care, cuts in Medicare and collective purchasing arrangements. Industry Consolidation The health care products distribution industry, as it relates to office-based health care practitioners, is fragmented and diverse. The industry ranges from sole practitioners working out of relatively small offices to group practices or service organizations ranging in size from a few practitioners to a large number of practitioners who have combined or otherwise associated their practices. Due in part to the inability of office-based health care practitioners to store and manage large quantities of supplies in their offices, the distribution of health care supplies and small equipment to office-based health care practitioners has been characterized by frequent, small quantity orders, and a need for rapid, reliable and substantially complete order fulfillment. The purchasing decisions within an office-based health care practice are typically made by the practitioner or an administrative assistant. Supplies and small equipment are generally purchased from more than one distributor, with one generally serving as the primary supplier. The trend of consolidation extends to our customer base. Health care practitioners are increasingly seeking to partner, affiliate or combine with larger entities such as hospitals, health systems, group practices or physician hospital organizations. In many cases, purchasing decisions for consolidated groups are made at a centralized or professional staff level; however, orders are delivered to the practitioners’ offices. We believe that consolidation within the industry will continue to result in a number of distributors, particularly those with limited financial, operating and marketing resources, seeking to combine with larger companies that can provide growth opportunities. This consolidation also may continue to result in distributors seeking to acquire companies that can enhance their current product and service offerings or provide opportunities to serve a broader customer base. Our approach to acquisitions and joint ventures has been to expand our role as a provider of products and services to the health care industry. This trend has resulted in our expansion into service areas that complement our existing operations and provide opportunities for us to develop synergies with, and thus strengthen, the acquired businesses. As industry consolidation continues, we believe that we are positioned to capitalize on this trend, as we believe we have the ability to support increased sales through our existing infrastructure, although there can be no assurances that we will be able to successfully accomplish this. We also have invested in expanding our sales/marketing infrastructure to include a focus on building relationships with decision makers who do not reside in the office- based practitioner setting. As the health care industry continues to change, we continually evaluate possible candidates for joint venture or acquisition and intend to continue to seek opportunities to expand our role as a provider of products and services to the health care industry. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully pursue any such opportunity or consummate any such transaction, if pursued. If additional transactions are entered into or consummated, we would incur merger and/or acquisition-related costs, and there can be no assurance that the integration efforts associated with any such transaction would be successful. 48 Aging Population and Other Market Influences The health care products distribution industry continues to experience growth due to the aging population, increased health care awareness, the proliferation of medical technology and testing, new pharmacological treatments, and expanded third-party insurance coverage, partially offset by the effects of unemployment on insurance coverage. In addition, the physician market continues to benefit from the shift of procedures and diagnostic testing from acute care settings to alternate-care sites, particularly physicians’ offices. According to the U.S. Census Bureau’s International Database, between 2023 and 2033, the 45 and older population is expected to grow by approximately 11%. Between 2023 and 2043, this age group is expected to grow by approximately 21%. This compares with expected total U.S. population growth rates of approximately 6% between 2023 and 2033 and approximately 11% between 2023 and 2043. According to the U.S. Census Bureau’s International Database, in 2023 there are approximately seven million Americans aged 85 years or older, the segment of the population most in need of long-term care and elder-care services. By the year 2050, that number is projected to nearly triple to approximately 19 million. The population aged 65 to 84 years is projected to increase by approximately 23% during the same period. As a result of these market dynamics, annual expenditures for health care services continue to increase in the United States. We believe that demand for our products and services will grow while continuing to be impacted by current and future operating, economic, and industry conditions. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, published “National Health Expenditure Data” indicating that total national health care spending reached approximately $4.5 trillion in 2022, or 17.3% of the nation’s gross domestic product, the benchmark measure for annual production of goods and services in the United States. Health care spending is projected to reach approximately $7.2 trillion by 2031, or 19.6% of the nation’s projected gross domestic product. Government Our businesses are generally subject to numerous laws and regulations that could impact our financial performance, and failure to comply with such laws or regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. See “ ” for a discussion of laws, regulations and governmental activity that may affect our results of operations and financial condition. 49 Results of Operations Refer to Item 7: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our 2022 Annual Report on Form 10-K for management’s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for the fiscal year 2022 compared to fiscal year 2021. The following tables summarize the significant components of our operating results and cash flows: Years Ended December 30, December 31, December 25, 2023 2022 2021 Operating results: Net sales $ 12,339 $ 12,647 $ 12,401 Cost of sales 8,478 8,816 8,727 Gross profit 3,861 3,831 3,674 Operating expenses: Selling, general and administrative 2,956 2,771 2,634 Depreciation and amortization 210 182 180 Restructuring and integration costs 80 131 8 Operating income $ 615 $ 747 $ 852 Other expense, net $ (73) $ (26) $ (21) Gain on sale of equity investment - - 7 Net income 436 566 660 Net income attributable to Henry Schein, Inc. 416 538 631 Years Ended December 30, December 31, December 25, 2023 2022 2021 Cash flows: Net cash provided by operating activities $ 500 $ 602 $ 710 Net cash used in investing activities (1,135) (276) (677) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 701 (315) (333) 50 Plans of Restructuring and Integration Costs On August 1, 2022, we committed to a restructuring plan focused on funding the priorities of the BOLD+1 strategic plan, streamlining operations and other initiatives to increase efficiency. We revised our previous expectations of completion and we have extended this initiative through the end of 2024. We are currently unable in good faith to make a determination of an estimate of the amount or range of amounts expected to be incurred in connection with these activities, both with respect to each major type of cost associated therewith and to the total cost, or an estimate of the amount or range of amounts that will result in future cash expenditures. During the years ended December 30, 2023, December 31, 2022, and December 25, 2021, we recorded restructuring costs of $80 million, $128 million, and $8 million, respectively. The restructuring costs for these periods primarily related to severance and employee-related costs, impairment of intangible assets, accelerated amortization of right-of-use lease assets and fixed assets, other lease exit costs, and certain business exit costs discussed below. During the year ended December 30, 2023, in connection with our restructuring plan, we recorded an impairment of an intangible asset of $12 million related to a planned disposal of a non-U.S. business. The disposal is expected to be completed in 2024. This impairment is included in the $80 million of restructuring charges discussed above. During the year ended December 31, 2022, in connection with our restructuring plan, we vacated one of the buildings at our corporate headquarters in Melville, New York, which resulted in an accelerated amortization of a right-of-use lease asset of $34 million. We also initiated the disposal of a non-profitable U.S. business and recorded related costs of $49 million, which primarily consisted of impairment of intangible assets and goodwill, inventory impairment, and severance and employee-related costs. These expenses are included in the $128 million of restructuring charges discussed above. The disposal was completed during the first quarter of 2023. On August 26, 2022, we acquired Midway Dental Supply. In connection with this acquisition, during the year ended December 31, 2022, we recorded integration costs of $3 million related to one-time employee and other costs, as well as restructuring charges of $9 million, which are included in the $128 million of restructuring charges discussed above. On November 20, 2019, we committed to a contemplated restructuring initiative intended to mitigate stranded costs associated with the spin-off of our animal health business and to rationalize operations and provide expense efficiencies. These activities were originally expected to be completed by the end of 2020 but we extended them to the end of 2021 in light of the changes to the business environment brought on by the COVID-19 pandemic. The restructuring activities under this prior initiative were completed in 2021. 51 2023 Compared to 2022 Note: Percentages for Net Sales; Gross Profit; Operating Expenses; Other Expense, Net; and Income Taxes are based on actual values and may not recalculate due to rounding. Net Sales Net sales were as follows: % of % of Increase / (Decrease) 2023 Total 2022 Total $ % Health care distribution (1) Dental $ 7,539 61.1 % $ 7,473 59.1 % $ 66 0.9 % Medical 3,994 32.4 4,451 35.2 (457) (10.3) Total health care distribution 11,533 93.5 11,924 94.3 (391) (3.3) Technology and value-added services (2) 806 6.5 723 5.7 83 11.4 Total $ 12,339 100.0 $ 12,647 100.0 $ (308) (2.4) The components of our sales growth were as follows: Local Currency Growth/(Decline) Total Local Currency Growth/(Decline) Foreign Exchange Impact Total Sales Growth/(Decline) Local Internal Growth Acquisition Growth Extra Week Impact Health care distribution (1) Dental Merchandise (1.6) % 4.2 % (1.0) % 1.6 % 0.1 % 1.7 % Dental Equipment (0.9) 1.1 (2.1) (1.9) - (1.9) Total Dental (1.4) 3.4 (1.3) 0.7 0.2 0.9 Medical (11.2) 2.2 (1.3) (10.3) - (10.3) Total Health Care Distribution (5.1) 2.9 (1.2) (3.4) 0.1 (3.3) Technology and value-added services (2) 7.2 5.0 (0.8) 11.4 - 11.4 Total (4.4) 3.1 (1.2) (2.5) 0.1 (2.4) (1) Consists of consumable products, dental specialty products (including implant, orthodontic and endodontic products), small equipment, laboratory products, large equipment, equipment repair services, branded and generic pharmaceuticals, vaccines, surgical products, diagnostic tests, infection-control products, PPE products and vitamins. (2) Consists of practice management software and other value-added products, which are distributed primarily to health care providers, practice consultancy, education, revenue cycle management and financial services on a non-recourse basis, e-services, continuing education services for practitioners, consulting and other services. Global Sales We report our results of operations on a 52 or 53 weeks per fiscal year basis ending on the last Saturday of December. The year ended December 30, 2023, consisted of 52 weeks, and the year ended, December 31, 2022 consisted of 53 weeks, resulting in an extra week of sales. Global net sales for the year ended December 30, 2023 decreased 2.4%. The components of our sales growth are presented in the table above. The 4.4% decrease in our internally generated local currency sales was primarily attributable to a decrease in sales of PPE products and COVID-19 test kits. For the nine months ended September 30, 2023, the estimated increase in internally generated local currency sales, excluding PPE products and COVID-19 test kits, was 3.5%. However, as a result of the adverse impact of the cybersecurity incident during the quarter ended December 30, 2023, our internally generated local currency sales, excluding sales of PPE products and COVID-19 test kits, on a full year basis were flat compared to the prior year. In addition, we estimate that sales of PPE products and COVID-19 test kits were approximately $713 million and $1,245 million for the years ended December 30, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively, representing an 52 estimated decrease of $532 million or 42.7% versus the prior year, with the $532 million net decrease year-over- year representing 4.2% of global net sales for the year ended December 30, 2023. Dental Dental net sales for the year ended December 30, 2023 increased 0.9%. The components of our sales growth are presented in the table above. Our decrease in internally generated local currency sales for dental merchandise was primarily attributable to the negative impact of the cybersecurity incident. Our sales decrease in internally generated local currency for dental equipment was also primarily attributable to the impact of the cybersecurity incident. We estimate that sales of PPE products were approximately $338 million and $448 million for the years ended December 30, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively, representing an estimated decrease of $110 million or 24.5% versus the prior year, with the $110 million net decrease year-over-year representing 1.5% of dental net sales for the year ended December 30, 2023. The decrease in sales of PPE products is primarily due to lower market prices and loss of demand during the cybersecurity incident. Our estimated internally generated local currency sales, excluding PPE products were flat compared to the prior year. Medical Medical net sales for the year ended December 30, 2023 decreased 10.3%. The components of our sales growth are presented in the table above. The internally generated local currency decrease in medical sales is primarily attributable to the impact of the cybersecurity incident that occurred during the fourth quarter of the year ended December 30, 2023 and to lower sales of PPE products and COVID-19 test kits and other point-of-care diagnostic products. We estimate that sales of PPE products and COVID-19 test kits were approximately $375 million and $797 million for the years ended December 30, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively, representing an estimated decrease of $422 million or 52.9% versus the prior year, with the $422 million net decrease year-over-year representing 10.6% of medical net sales for the year ended December 30, 2023. The decrease in sales of these products is primarily due to lower market prices of PPE, lower market demand of COVID-19 test kits, and loss of sales of both product categories during the cybersecurity incident. The estimated decrease in internally generated local currency sales, excluding PPE products and COVID-19 test kits was 2.2%. Technology and value-added services Technology and value-added services net sales for the year ended December 30, 2023 increased 11.4%. The components of our sales growth are presented in the table above. During the year ended December 30, 2023, the trend for sales of practice management software growth remains strong as we continued to increase the number of cloud-based users. We also experienced increased demand for our revenue cycle management solutions and our analytical products. The increase in sales during the year ended December 30, 2023 was partially offset by the expiration, during the year ended December 31, 2022, of a modestly profitable government contract in one of our value-added services businesses. This segment of our business was largely unaffected by the cybersecurity incident in the fourth quarter. Gross Profit Gross profit and gross margin percentages by segment and in total were as follows: Gross Gross Increase / (Decrease) 2023 Margin % 2022 Margin % $ % Health care distribution $ 3,312 28.7 % $ 3,357 28.2 % $ (45) (1.3) % Technology and value-added services 549 68.0 474 65.5 75 15.7 Total $ 3,861 31.3 $ 3,831 30.3 $ 30 0.8 53 As a result of different practices of categorizing costs associated with distribution networks throughout our industry, our gross margins may not necessarily be comparable to other distribution companies. Additionally, we realize substantially higher gross margin percentages in our technology and value-added services segment than in our health care distribution segment. These higher gross margins result from being both the developer and seller of software products and services, as well as certain financial services. The software industry typically realizes higher gross margins to recover investments in research and development. Within our health care distribution segment, gross profit margins may vary between the periods as a result of the changes in the mix of products sold as well as changes in our customer mix. For example, sales of our corporate brand and certain specialty products achieve gross profit margins that are higher than average total gross profit margins of all products. With respect to customer mix, sales to our large-group customers are typically completed at lower gross margins due to the higher volumes sold as opposed to the gross margin on sales to office-based practitioners, who normally purchase lower volumes. Health care distribution gross profit for the year ended December 30, 2023 decreased compared to the prior-year- period due to the decrease in sales resulting from the cybersecurity incident and a reduction in sales of PPE products and COVID-19 test kits, partially offset by gross profit from acquisitions and gross margin expansion as a result of a favorable impact of sales mix of higher-margin products. Technology and value-added services gross profit increased as a result of a higher gross profit from internally generated sales and gross profit from acquisitions, as well as an increase in gross margin rates primarily due to product mix and increases in productivity. Operating Expenses Operating expenses (consisting of selling, general and administrative expenses; depreciation and amortization, restructuring and integration costs) by segment and in total were as follows: % of % of Respective Respective Increase 2023 Net Sales 2022 Net Sales $ % Health care distribution $ 2,842 24.6 % $ 2,738 23.0 % $ 104 3.8 % Technology and value-added services 404 50.1 346 47.8 58 16.8 Total $ 3,246 26.3 % $ 3,084 24.4 % $ 162 5.3 % The net increase in operating expenses is attributable to the following: Operating Costs Restructuring and Integration Costs Acquisitions Total Health care distribution $ 92 $ (55) $ 67 $ 104 Technology and value-added services 5 4 49 58 Total $ 97 $ (51) $ 116 $ 162 The increase in operating costs during the year ended December 30, 2023 includes increases in payroll and payroll related costs, travel, convention and consulting expenses in both of our reportable segments and increased acquisition expenses in our healthcare distribution segment. During the year ended December 30, 2023, our operating expenses were favorably impacted by the recognition of a remeasurement gain of $18 million following an acquisition of a controlling interest of a previously held equity investment, and were negatively impacted by restructuring, an impairment of capitalized costs of $27 million and impairment of intangible assets of $7 million within our health care distribution segment. During the year ended December 30, 2023, we also incurred $11 million of direct costs, primarily professional fees, for the remediation of the cybersecurity incident. The restructuring and integration costs are primarily related to severance and employee-related costs, accelerated amortization of right-of-use lease assets and fixed assets, and other lease exit costs. 54 Other Expense, Net Other expense, net was as follows: Variance 2023 2022 $ % Interest income $ 17 $ 8 $ 9 125.1 % Interest expense (87) (35) (52) (148.7) Other, net (3) 1 (4) n/a Other expense, net $ (73) $ (26) $ (47) (172.9) % Interest income increased primarily due to increased interest rates. Interest expense increased primarily due to increased borrowings and increased interest rates. Income Taxes Our effective tax rate was 22.1% for the year ended December 30, 2023 compared to 23.5% for the prior year. In each year, the difference between our effective and federal statutory tax rates primarily relates to state and foreign income taxes and interest expense. The Organization of Economic Co-Operation and Development (OECD) issued technical and administrative guidance on Pillar Two Model Rules in December 2021, which provides for a global minimum tax rate on the earnings of large multinational businesses, on a country-by-country basis. Effective January 1, 2024, the minimum global tax rate is 15% for various jurisdictions pursuant to the Pillar Two framework. Future tax reform resulting from these developments may result in changes to long-standing tax principles, which may adversely impact our effective tax rate going forward or result in higher cash tax liabilities. As we operate in jurisdictions which have adopted Pillar 2, we are continuing to analyze the implications to effectively manage the impact for 2024 and beyond. 55 Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal capital requirements have included funding of acquisitions, purchases of additional noncontrolling interests, repayments of debt principal, the funding of working capital needs, purchases of fixed assets and repurchases of common stock. Working capital requirements generally result from increased sales, special inventory forward buy-in opportunities and payment terms for receivables and payables. Historically, sales have tended to be stronger during the second half of the year and special inventory forward buy-in opportunities have been most prevalent just before the end of the year, and have caused our working capital requirements to be higher from the end of the third quarter to the end of the first quarter of the following year. We finance our business primarily through cash generated from our operations, revolving credit facilities and debt placements. Please see for further information. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flows from operations is dependent on the continued demand of our customers for our products and services, and access to products and services from our suppliers. Our business requires a substantial investment in working capital, which is susceptible to fluctuations during the year as a result of inventory purchase patterns and seasonal demands. Inventory purchase activity is a function of sales activity, special inventory forward buy-in opportunities and our desired level of inventory. We anticipate future increases in our working capital requirements. We finance our business to provide adequate funding for at least 12 months. Funding requirements are based on forecasted profitability and working capital needs, which, on occasion, may change. Consequently, we may change our funding structure to reflect any new requirements. We believe that our cash and cash equivalents, our ability to access private debt markets and public equity markets, and our available funds under existing credit facilities provide us with sufficient liquidity to meet our currently foreseeable short-term and long-term capital needs. Our acquisition strategy is focused on investments in companies that add new customers and sales teams, increase our geographic footprint (whether entering a new country, such as emerging markets, or building scale where we have already invested in businesses), and finally, those that enable us to access new products and technologies. As part of our BOLD+1 Strategic Plan, including pursuing focused mergers and acquisitions, during the year ended December 30, 2023 we have announced acquisitions of companies specializing in implant systems, clear aligners, homecare medical products delivered directly to patients, and dental practice transition services. Net cash provided by operating activities was $500 million for the year ended December 30, 2023, compared to net cash provided by operating activities of $602 million for the prior year. The net change of $102 million was primarily attributable to lower cash net income. During the quarter ended December 30, 2023, the cybersecurity incident had several offsetting impacts to the operating cash flows from our working capital, net of acquisitions, including a decrease in operating cash flows from accounts receivable due to delayed timing of billings and limited collection efforts resulting from the impact of the cybersecurity incident, and an increase in operating cash flows resulting from reduced inventory purchases. Net cash used in investing activities was $1,135 million for the year ended December 30, 2023, compared to net cash used in investing activities of $276 million for the prior year. The net change of $859 million was primarily attributable to increased payments for equity investments and business acquisitions, and increased purchases of fixed assets resulting from our continued investment in our facilities and operations. Net cash provided by financing activities was $701 million for the year ended December 30, 2023, compared to net cash used in financing activities of $315 million for the prior year. The net change of $1,016 million was primarily due to increased net borrowings from debt to finance our investments, partially offset by decreased repurchases of common stock. 56 The following table summarizes selected measures of liquidity and capital resources: December 30, December 31, 2023 2022 Cash and cash equivalents $ 171 $ 117 Working capital (1) 1,805 1,764 Debt: Bank credit lines $ 264 $ 103 Current maturities of long-term debt 150 6 Long-term debt 1,937 1,040 Total debt $ 2,351 $ 1,149 Leases: Current operating lease liabilities $ 80 $ 73 Non-current operating lease liabilities 310 275 (1) Includes $284 million and $327 million of certain accounts receivable which serve as security for U.S. trade accounts receivable securitizations at December 30, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively. Our cash and cash equivalents consist of bank balances and investments in money market funds representing overnight investments with a high degree of liquidity. Accounts receivable days sales outstanding and inventory turns Our accounts receivable days sales outstanding from operations increased to 46.2 days as of December 30, 2023 from 41.9 days as of December 31, 2022 due to delays in billings leading to limited collections in the quarter ended December 30, 2023 as a result of the cybersecurity incident. During the years ended December 30, 2023 and December 31, 2022, we wrote off approximately $16 million and $10 million, respectively, of fully reserved accounts receivable against our trade receivable reserve. Our inventory turns from operations was 4.5 as of December 30, 2023 and 4.7 as of December 31, 2022. Our working capital accounts may be impacted by current and future economic conditions. Contractual obligations The following table summarizes our contractual obligations related to fixed and variable rate long-term debt and finance lease obligations, including interest (assuming a weighted average interest rate of 4.8%), as well as inventory purchase commitments and operating lease obligations as of December 30, 2023: Payments due by period < 1 year 2 - 3 years 4 - 5 years > 5 years Total Contractual obligations: Long-term debt, including interest $ 243 $ 1,097 $ 346 $ 783 $ 2,469 Inventory purchase commitments 5 8 4 - 17 Operating lease obligations 92 141 86 119 438 Transition tax obligations 11 24 - - 35 Finance lease obligations, including interest 4 3 2 - 9 Total $ 355 $ 1,273 $ 438 $ 902 $ 2,968 For information relating to our debt please see . 57 Leases We have operating and finance leases for corporate offices, office space, distribution and other facilities, vehicles and certain equipment. Our leases have remaining terms of less than one year to approximately 18 years, some of which may include options to extend the leases for up to 15 years. As of December 30, 2023, our right-of-use assets related to operating leases were $325 million and our current and non-current operating lease liabilities were $80 million and $310 million, respectively. Please see for further information. Stock Repurchases On February 8, 2023, our Board authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $400 million in shares of our common stock. From March 3, 2003 through December 30, 2023, we repurchased $4.7 billion, or 90,394,805 shares, under our common stock repurchase programs, with $265 million available as of December 30, 2023 for future common stock share repurchases. Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests Some minority stockholders in certain of our consolidated subsidiaries have the right, at certain times, to require us to acquire their ownership interest in those entities. Accounting Standards Codification Topic 480-10 is applicable for noncontrolling interests where we are or may be required to purchase all or a portion of the outstanding interest in a consolidated subsidiary from the noncontrolling interest holder under the terms of a put option contained in contractual agreements. As of December 30, 2023 and December 31, 2022, our balance for redeemable noncontrolling interests was $864 million and $576 million, respectively. Please see for further information. Unrecognized tax benefits As more fully disclosed in of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” we cannot reasonably estimate the timing of future cash flows related to our unrecognized tax benefits, including accrued interest, of $115 million as of December 30, 2023. Critical Accounting Estimates Our accounting policies are more fully described in of the consolidated financial statements. The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical data, when available, experience, industry and market trends, and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the combined results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. We believe that the estimates, judgments and assumptions upon which we rely are reasonable based upon information available to us at the time that these estimates, judgments and assumptions are made. However, by their nature, estimates are subject to various assumptions and uncertainties. Therefore, reported results may differ from estimates and any such differences may be material to our consolidated financial statements. We believe that the following critical accounting estimates, which have been discussed with the Audit Committee of our Board, affect the significant estimates and judgments used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements: Inventories and Reserves Inventories consist primarily of finished goods and are valued at the lower of cost or net realizable value. Cost is determined by the first-in, first-out method for merchandise and actual cost for large equipment and high tech equipment. In estimating carrying value of inventory, we consider many factors including the condition and 58 salability of the inventory by reviewing on-hand quantities, historical sales, forecasted sales and market and economic trends. Certain of our products, specifically PPE and COVID-19 test kits, have experienced changes in net realizable value, due to volatility of pricing and changes in demand for these products. Business Combinations The estimated fair value of acquired identifiable intangible assets (i.e., customer relationships and lists, trademarks and trade names, product development and non-compete agreements) is based on critical judgments and assumptions derived from analysis of market conditions, including discount rates, projected revenue growth rates (which are based on historical trends and assessment of financial projections), estimated customer attrition and projected cash flows. These assumptions are forward-looking and could be affected by future economic and market conditions. Please see for further discussion of our acquisitions. Goodwill Goodwill is subject to impairment analysis at least once annually as of the first day of our fourth quarter, or if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce a reporting unit’s fair value below carrying value. We regard our reporting units to be our operating segments: our global dental and medical businesses, and technology and value-added services. Goodwill is allocated to such reporting units, for the purposes of preparing our impairment analyses, based on a specific identification basis. Application of the goodwill impairment test requires judgment, including the identification of reporting units, assignment of assets and liabilities that are considered shared services to the reporting units, and ultimately the determination of the fair value of each reporting unit. The fair value of each reporting unit is calculated by applying the discounted cash flow methodology and confirming with a market approach. There are inherent uncertainties, however, related to fair value models, the inputs and our judgments in applying them to this analysis. The most significant inputs include estimation of detailed future cash flows based on budget expectations, and determination of comparable companies to develop a weighted average cost of capital for each reporting unit. On an annual basis, we prepare financial projections. These projections are based on input from our leadership and are presented annually to our Board. Influences on this year's forecasted financial information and the fair value model include: the impact of planned strategic initiatives, the continued integration of recent acquisitions and overall market conditions. The estimates used to calculate the fair value of a reporting unit change from year to year based on operating results, market conditions, and other factors. Our third-party valuation specialists provide inputs into our determination of the discount rate. The rate is dependent on a number of underlying assumptions, including the risk-free rate, tax rate, equity risk premium, debt to equity ratio and pre-tax cost of debt. Long-term growth rates are applied to our estimation of future cash flows. The long-term growth rates are tied to growth rates we expect to achieve beyond the years for which we have forecasted operating results. We also consider external benchmarks, and other data points which we believe are applicable to our industry and the composition of our global operations. For the years ended December 30, 2023 and December 25, 2021, we believe the fair value of each of our reporting units sufficiently exceeds the carrying values and thus we did not record any amount for goodwill impairment. Based on our quantitative assessment for the year ended December 31, 2022, we recorded a $20 million impairment of goodwill relating to the disposal of an unprofitable business for which estimated fair value was lower than carrying value. As part of our analysis for the rest of the goodwill balance, we performed a sensitivity analysis on the discount rate and long-term growth rate assumptions. The sensitivities did not result in any additional impairment charges. 59 Definite-Lived Intangible Assets Annually or if we identify an impairment indicator, definite-lived intangible assets such as non-compete agreements, trademarks, trade names, customer relationships and lists, and product development are reviewed for impairment indicators. If any impairment indicators exist, quantitative testing is performed on the asset. The quantitative impairment model is a two-step test under which we first calculate the recoverability of the carrying value by comparing the undiscounted projected cash flows associated with the asset or asset group, including its estimated residual value, to the carrying amount. If the cash flows associated with the asset or asset group are less than the carrying value, we perform a fair value assessment of the asset, or asset group. If the carrying amount is found to be greater than the fair value, we record an impairment loss for the excess of book value over the fair value. In addition, in all cases of an impairment review, we re-evaluate the remaining useful lives of the assets and modify them, as appropriate. Although we believe our judgments, estimates and/or assumptions used in estimating cash flows and determining fair value are reasonable, making material changes to such judgments, estimates and/or assumptions could materially affect such impairment analyses and our financial results. During the year ended December 30, 2023 we recorded $19 million of impairment charges related to businesses in our health care distribution segment, the components of which were $7 million primarily related to customer lists and relationships attributable to lower than anticipated operating margins in certain businesses, and a $12 million charge related to the planned exit of a business. These impairment charges were calculated as the differences between the carrying values and the estimated fair values of the impaired intangible assets, using a discounted estimate of future cash flows. Please see for additional details. During the year ended December 31, 2022 we recorded $49 million of impairment charges related to businesses in our health care distribution segment, the components of which were a $15 million charge related to the disposal of an unprofitable business and a $34 million charge related to customer lists and relationships attributable to customer attrition rates being higher than expected in certain other health care distribution businesses. These impairment charges were calculated as the differences between the carrying values and the estimated fair values of the impaired intangible assets, using a discounted estimate of future cash flows. Please see for additional details. During the year ended December 25, 2021, we recorded a $1 million impairment charge related ratably to a business within our health care distribution segment and a business within our technology and value-added services segment. Redeemable Noncontrolling Interests Some minority stockholders in certain of our consolidated subsidiaries have the right, at certain times, to require us to acquire their ownership interest in those entities at fair value. The redemption amounts have been estimated based on recent transactions, expected future earnings and cash flows and, if such earnings and cash flows are not achieved, the value of the redeemable noncontrolling interests might be impacted. See and for additional information. Income Tax When determining if the realization of a deferred tax asset is likely to assess the need to record a valuation allowance, estimates and judgement are required. We consider all available evidence, both positive and negative, including estimated future taxable earnings, ongoing planning strategies, future reversals of existing temporary differences and historical operating results. Additionally, changes to tax laws and statutory tax rates can have an impact on our determination. Our intention is to evaluate the realizability of our deferred tax assets quarterly. ASC Topic 740 prescribes the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in the financial statements in accordance with provisions contained within its guidance. This topic prescribes a recognition threshold and a measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of tax positions taken or expected to 60 be taken in a tax return. For those benefits to be recognized, a tax position must be more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by the taxing authorities. The amount recognized is measured as the largest amount of benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate audit settlement. In the normal course of business, our tax returns are subject to examination by various taxing authorities. Such examinations may result in future tax and interest assessments by these taxing authorities for uncertain tax positions taken in respect of certain tax matters. Please see for further discussion. The Financial Accounting Standards Board Staff Q&A, Topic 740 No. 5, Accounting for Global Intangible Low- Taxed Income (“GILTI”), states that an entity can make an accounting policy election to either recognize deferred taxes for temporary differences expected to reverse as GILTI in future years or provide for the tax expense related to GILTI in the year the tax is incurred. We have elected to recognize the tax on GILTI as a period expense in the period the tax is incurred. Accounting Standards Update For a discussion of accounting standards updates that have been adopted or will be adopted in the future, please see included under Item 8.