********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Our business operations could be affected by factors that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider not to be material to our operations, so you should not consider the risks disclosed in this section to necessarily represent a complete statement of all risks and uncertainties. The Company believes that the following risks could have a material adverse impact on our business, reputation, financial results, financial condition and/or the trading price of our common stock. The order in which these factors appear does not necessarily reflect their relative importance or priority. COMPANY RISKS Our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and liquidity may be negatively impacted by the effects of disease outbreaks, epidemics, pandemics, or similar wide-spread public health concerns and other natural disasters . The COVID-19 pandemic and the responses of governments to it had, and may again have, a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows and may result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and liquidity. Our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and liquidity may be negatively impacted by the effects of disease outbreaks, epidemics, pandemics, similar wide-spread public health concerns, and other natural disasters. The COVID-19 pandemic has had, and continues to have, an unprecedented impact on society, worldwide economic activity, and the health care sector (particularly, the dental market). As a global healthcare solutions company, the COVID-19 pandemic and the governmental responses to it had, and may again have, a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows and may result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and liquidity. In March and April 2020, the dental market was severely impacted by COVID-19, with many, if not a majority, of practices being closed or open on a limited basis only. Although dental practice openings and patient volume recovery in the United States and many other countries have rebounded faster than originally anticipated, patient volumes have remained below pre-COVID-19 levels. Material uncertainty remains and the potential for additional significant resurgences of COVID-19 could cause a significant reduction in dental practice openings and patient volume recovery, or further delay the return to normal operations. Even after COVID-19 has subsided, we may again experience material adverse impacts to our business, results of operations and cash flows as a result of, among other things, its global economic impact, including any recession that may occur in the future, or a prolonged period of economic slowdown or the reluctance of patients to return for elective dental or medical care. The impacts and potential impacts from the COVID-19 pandemic include, but are not limited to: • Significant reductions in demand or significant volatility in demand for certain of our products. For example, in March and April 2020, many dental offices in the United States performed only emergency procedures, and rescheduled wellness exams and elective procedures. Dental offices in other countries also experienced closures or restricted operations, as did medical offices around the world. Such closures and restrictions impacted our customers’ spending with us and had, and if reinstated may again have, a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows. Although dental practice openings and patient volume recovery have rebounded faster than originally anticipated, capacity constraints in offices and demand-side factors may again lead to reductions in demand or significant volatility in demand for our products. Additionally, significant reduction in demand for certain of our products or customers’ decisions to delay the purchase of large equipment may result in us having increased inventory; • Shortage of Certain Personal Protective Equipment (PPE ). Supply chain disruptions for PPE and an increased demand for these products has resulted, and may continue to result, in backorders of certain PPE and a potential scarcity in raw materials to make certain PPE. Prices for certain PPE have been volatile. Although we believe that most practices currently are able to access adequate supply, with some exceptions in certain markets depending on a number of factors, including the progress of the virus and efforts to combat it, we still may be unable to supply our customers with the quantity of certain PPE products they demand, which may lead to our customers seeking alternative sources of supply. Furthermore, healthcare professionals’ inability to obtain a sufficient quantity of certain PPE would adversely impact our business, results of operations and cash flows, and could materially adversely affect our financial condition and liquidity. Conversely, we recorded significant charges throughout the year beginning in the second quarter for PPE inventory due to volatility of pricing for PPE, and, depending upon 25 the course of the pandemic, if PPE pricing or demand decreases, our margins and the value of certain our PPE inventory could be further negatively impacted in future periods, which could result in a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and cash flows and our financial condition and liquidity; • Reduction in Peoples’ Ability and Willingness to be in Public. Restrictions recommended by several public health organizations, and implemented by many local governments, to slow and limit the transmission of COVID-19 (including business closures and restrictions, stay-at-home and similar measures) were implemented and then lifted or partially lifted in some locations and reinstituted in others. Ongoing social distancing ordinances and similar restrictions, and the actual and potential for additional resurgences of COVID-19 has in some locations and may in other locations result in the re-imposition or tightening of governmental social distancing and other restrictions, and/or cause people to be less willing to go to elective medical and dental appointments, which could again materially adversely affect demand for our products. A lengthened period of materially suppressed demand could again cause material adverse impacts on our business, results of operations and cash flows and could materially adversely affect our financial condition and liquidity; • Potential delays in customer payments, or defaults on our customer credit arrangements. We generally sell products to customers with payment terms. If customers’ cash flows or operating and financial performance deteriorate due to the impact of COVID-19, or if they are unable to make scheduled payments or obtain credit, they may not be able to pay, or may delay payment to us. Likewise, for similar reasons, suppliers may restrict credit or impose more stringent payment terms. The inability of current and/or potential customers to pay us for our products and/or services or any demands by suppliers for more stringent payment terms may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and liquidity and may limit the amounts we can borrow under our trade accounts receivable securitization; • Impact on third parties’ ability to meet their obligations to us; impact on our ability to meet obligations to third parties. Failure of third parties on which we rely, including our suppliers, contract manufacturers, distributors, contractors (including third-party shippers), banks, joint venture partners and external business partners, to meet their obligations to us, or significant disruptions in their ability to do so, which may be caused by their own financial or operational difficulties, or by travel restrictions and border closures, may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and liquidity. Certain of our contracts with supply partners contain minimum purchase requirements or include rebate provisions if we satisfy certain sales or purchasing targets that, in certain cases we have not been able to satisfy and in other cases we may not be able to fully satisfy, due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Rebate income recognized in fiscal 2020 is less than rebates earned over the prior fiscal year. Our failure to satisfy such contractual provisions or renegotiate more favorable terms could materially adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows; • Negative impact on our workforce and impact of adapted business practices. The spread of COVID-19 caused us to implement temporary cost reduction measures (including a payroll cost reduction plan centered around furloughs, reduced pay and work hours, voluntary unpaid time off, suspension of Company contributions to certain retirement plans and job reductions), all of which have now ended (except for a small number of TSMs who remain on furlough), modify our business practices (including employee travel, employee work locations, and cancellation of physical participation in meetings, events and conferences), and we may take further actions as may be required by government authorities or that we determine are in the best interests of our employees. As the COVID-19 pandemic continues to unfold, we will continue to evaluate appropriate actions for our business. Many of our employees shifted abruptly to working remotely and our non-essential workers who are able to work from home continue to do so. An extended period of modified business practices and remote work arrangements could have a negative impact on employee morale, strain our business continuity plans, introduce operational risk (including but not limited to cybersecurity risks), and impair our ability to efficiently operate our business; • Significant changes in political conditions. Significant changes in political conditions in markets in which we purchase and distribute our products have occurred and are expected to continue at least during the pendency of the pandemic, including quarantines, governmental or regulatory actions, closures or other restrictions that limit or close our operating facilities, restrict our employees’ ability to travel or perform necessary business functions, or otherwise constrain the operations of our business partners, suppliers, or customers, which may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and liquidity; 26 • Potential impact on our ability to meet obligations under credit facilities. Although in fiscal 2020 we entered into amendments to our material credit facilities to, among other things, extend the maturity dates and temporarily provide additional flexibility under certain covenants, an extended negative impact of COVID-19 on our business, results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and liquidity could impact our ability to meet our obligations under credit facilities or outstanding long term debt, which contain maximum leverage ratios, and customary representations, warranties and affirmative covenants; • Volatility in the financial markets. Volatility in the financial markets may materially adversely affect the availability and cost of credit to us; • Refocusing management resources to mitigate effects of COVID-19 . Our management is focused on mitigating the effects of COVID-19, which has required, and may continue to require for the duration of the pandemic, a large investment of time and resources across the Company, and may delay certain strategic and other plans, which could materially adversely affect our business; • Potential increased costs associated with our self-insured medical insurance programs. We may incur significant employee health care costs under our self-insurance medical insurance programs if a large number of our employees and/or their covered family members become ill from COVID-19; and • Reputational risk associated with response to COVID-19. If we do not respond appropriately to the COVID-19 pandemic, or if customers do not perceive our response to be adequate, we could suffer damage to our reputation and our brands, which could materially adversely affect our business. The impact of COVID-19 may also exacerbate other risks discussed below, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us. We are dependent upon third parties for the manufacture and supply of substantially all of our products. We obtain substantially all of the products we distribute from third parties, with whom we generally do not have long-term contracts. While there is typically more than one source of supply, some key suppliers, in the aggregate, supply a significant portion of the products we sell. In 2020, our top 10 health care distribution suppliers and our single largest supplier accounted for approximately 30% and 4%, respectively, of our aggregate purchases. Because of our dependence upon such suppliers, our operations are subject to the suppliers’ ability and willingness to supply products in the quantities that we require, and the risks include delays caused by interruption in production based on conditions outside of our control, including a supplier’s failure to comply with applicable government requirements (which may result in product recalls and/or cessation of sales) or an interruption in the suppliers’ manufacturing capabilities. In the event of any such interruption in supply, we would need to identify and obtain acceptable replacement sources on a timely basis. There is no guarantee that we would be able to obtain such alternative sources of supply on a timely basis, if at all, and an extended interruption in supply, particularly of a high sales volume product, could result in a significant disruption in our sales and operations, as well as damage to our relationships with customers and our reputation. Our future growth (especially for our technology and value-added services segment) is dependent upon our ability to develop or acquire and maintain and protect new products and technologies that achieve market acceptance with acceptable margins. Our future success depends on our ability to timely develop (or obtain the right to sell) competitive and innovative (particularly for our technology and value-added services segment), products and services and to market them quickly and cost-effectively. Our ability to anticipate customer needs and emerging trends and develop or acquire new products, services and technologies at competitive prices requires significant resources, including employees with the requisite skills, experience and expertise, particularly in our technology segment, including dental practice management, patient engagement and demand creation software solutions. The failure to successfully address these challenges could materially disrupt our sales and operations. Additionally, our software and e-services products, like software products generally, may contain undetected errors or bugs when introduced or as new versions are released. Any such defective software may result in increased expenses related to the software and could adversely affect our relationships with customers as well as our reputation. While certain software and e-services that we 27 develop are protected under patent law, we rely primarily upon copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, as well as contractual and common law protections and confidentiality obligations. We cannot provide assurance that such legal protections will be available, adequate or enforceable in a timely manner to protect our software or e-services products. Our expansion through acquisitions and joint ventures involves risks and may not result in the benefits and revenue growth we expect. One of our business strategies has been to expand our domestic and international markets in part through acquisitions and joint ventures, and we expect to continue to make acquisitions and enter into joint ventures in the future. Such transactions require significant management attention, may place significant demands on our operations, information systems and financial resources, and there is risk that one or more may not succeed. We cannot be sure, for example, that we will achieve the benefits of revenue growth that we expect from these acquisitions or joint ventures or that we will avoid unforeseen additional costs or expenses. Our ability to successfully implement our acquisition and joint venture strategy depends upon, among other things, the following: • the availability of suitable acquisition or joint venture candidates at acceptable prices; • our ability to consummate such transactions, which could potentially be prohibited due to U.S. or foreign antitrust regulations; • the liquidity of our investments and the availability of financing on acceptable terms; • our ability to retain customers or product lines of the acquired businesses or joint ventures; • our ability to retain, recruit and incentivize the management of the companies we acquire; and • our ability to successfully integrate these companies’ operations, services, products and personnel with our culture, management policies, internal procedures, working capital management, financial and operational controls and strategies. Furthermore, some of our acquisitions and future acquisitions may give rise to an obligation to make contingent payments or to satisfy certain repurchase obligations, which payments could have material adverse impacts on our financial results individually or in the aggregate. Certain provisions in our governing documents and other documents to which we are a party may discourage third parties from seeking to acquire us that might otherwise result in our stockholders receiving a premium over the market price of their shares. The provisions of our certificate of incorporation and by-laws may make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us, may discourage acquisition bids and may impact the price that certain investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. These provisions, among other things require: • the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 60% of the shares of common stock entitled to vote to approve a merger, consolidation, or a sale, lease, transfer or exchange of all or substantially all of our assets; and • the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of our common stock entitled to vote to (i) remove a director; and (ii) to amend or repeal our by-laws, with certain limited exceptions. In addition, certain of our employee incentive plans provide for accelerated vesting of stock options and other awards upon termination without cause within two years following a change in control, or grant the plan committee discretion to accelerate awards upon a change of control. Further, certain agreements between us and our executive officers provide for increased severance payments and certain benefits if those executive officers are terminated without cause by us or if they terminate for good reason, in each case within two years following a change in control or within ninety days prior to the effective date of the change in control or after the first public announcement of the pendency of the change in control. 28 INDUSTRY RISKS The health care products distribution industry is highly competitive (including, without limitation, competition from third-party online commerce sites) and consolidating, and we may not be able to compete successfully. We compete with numerous companies, including several major manufacturers and distributors. Some of our competitors have greater financial and other resources than we do, which could allow them to compete more successfully. Most of our products are available from several sources and our customers tend to have relationships with several distributors. Competitors could obtain exclusive rights to market particular products, which we would then be unable to market. Manufacturers also could increase their efforts to sell directly to end-users and thereby eliminate or reduce our role in distribution. Industry consolidation among health care product distributors and manufacturers, price competition, product unavailability, whether due to our inability to gain access to products or to interruptions in manufacturing supply, or the emergence of new competitors, also could increase competition. Consolidation has also increased among manufacturers of health care products, which could have a material adverse effect on our margins and product availability. We could be subject to charges and financial losses in the event we fail to satisfy minimum purchase commitments contained in some of our contracts. Additionally, traditional health care supply and distribution relationships are being challenged by electronic online commerce solutions. The continued advancement of online commerce by third parties will require us to cost-effectively adapt to changing technologies, to enhance existing services and to differentiate our business (including with additional value-added services) to address changing demands of consumers and our customers on a timely basis. The emergence of such potential competition and our inability to anticipate and effectively respond to changes on a timely basis could have a material adverse effect on our business. The repeal or judicial prohibition on implementation of the Affordable Care Act could materially adversely affect our business. The U.S. Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, each enacted in March 2010, as amended (the “ACA”), greatly expanded health insurance coverage in the United States and has been the target of litigation and Congressional reform efforts since its adoption. The U.S. Supreme Court, in upholding the constitutionality of the ACA and its individual mandate provision in 2012, simultaneously limited ACA provisions requiring Medicaid expansion, making such expansion a state-by-state decision. In 2017, the U.S. Congress effectively repealed the ACA’s individual mandate provision by eliminating the financial penalty for non-compliance. In the most recent ACA litigation, a federal appeals court found the individual mandate to be unconstitutional, and returned the case to a lower federal court for consideration of whether the remainder of the ACA could survive the excision of the individual mandate. This decision was appealed to the U.S. Supreme Court, and a decision is expected soon. Any outcome of this case that changes the ACA, in addition to future legislation, regulation, guidance and/or Executive Orders that do the same, could have a significant impact on the U.S. healthcare industry and our operations. The health care industry is experiencing changes due to political, economic and regulatory influences that could materially adversely affect our business. The health care industry is highly regulated and subject to changing political, economic and regulatory influences. In recent years, the health care industry has undergone, and is in the process of undergoing, significant changes driven by various efforts to reduce costs, including, among other factors: trends toward managed care; collective purchasing arrangements and consolidation among office-based health care practitioners; and changes in reimbursements to customers, including increased attention to value-based payment arrangements, as well as growing enforcement activities (and related monetary recoveries) by governmental officials. Both our profitability and the profitability of our customers may be materially adversely affected by laws and regulations reducing reimbursement rates for pharmaceuticals, medical supplies and devices, and/or medical treatments or services, or changes to the methodology by which reimbursement levels are determined. If we are unable to react effectively to these and other changes in the health care industry, our business could be materially adversely affected. 29 Expansion of group purchasing organizations (“GPO”) or provider networks and the multi-tiered costing structure may place us at a competitive disadvantage. The medical products industry is subject to a multi-tiered costing structure, which can vary by manufacturer and/or product. Under this structure, certain institutions can obtain more favorable prices for medical products than we are able to obtain. The multi-tiered costing structure continues to expand as many large integrated health care providers and others with significant purchasing power, such as GPOs, demand more favorable pricing terms. Additionally, the formation of provider networks and GPOs may shift purchasing decisions to entities or persons with whom we do not have a historical relationship and may threaten our ability to compete effectively, which could in turn negatively impact our financial results. Although we are seeking to obtain similar terms from manufacturers to access lower prices demanded by GPO contracts or other contracts, and to develop relationships with existing and emerging provider networks and GPOs, we cannot guarantee that such terms will be obtained or contracts executed. Increases in shipping costs or service issues with our third-party shippers could harm our business. Shipping is a significant expense in the operation of our business. We ship almost all of our orders through third- party delivery services, and typically bear the cost of shipment. Accordingly, any significant increase in shipping rates could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or operating results. Similarly, strikes or other service interruptions by those shippers could cause our operating expenses to rise and materially adversely affect our ability to deliver products on a timely basis. MACRO ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL RISKS Uncertain global macro-economic and political conditions could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Uncertain global macro-economic and political conditions that affect the economy and the economic outlook of the United States, Europe, Asia and other parts of the world could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. These uncertainties, include, among other things: • election results; • changes to laws and policies governing foreign trade (including, without limitation, the United States- Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA), the EU-UK Trade and Cooperation Agreement of December 2020, and other international trade agreements); • greater restrictions on imports and exports; • supply chain disruptions due to social issues; • changes in laws and policies governing health care or data privacy; • tariffs and sanctions; • changes to the relationship between the United States and China; • sovereign debt levels; • the inability of political institutions to effectively resolve actual or perceived economic, currency or budgetary crises or issues; • consumer confidence; • unemployment levels (and a corresponding increase in the uninsured and underinsured population); • changes in regulatory and tax regulations; • increases in interest rates; • availability of capital; • increases in fuel and energy costs; • the effect of inflation on our ability to procure products and our ability to increase prices over time; • changes in tax rates and the availability of certain tax deductions; • increases in health care costs; • the threat or outbreak of war, terrorism or public unrest; and • changes in laws and policies governing manufacturing, development and investment in territories and countries where we do business. 30 Additionally, changes in government, government debt and/or budget crises may lead to reductions in government spending in certain countries, which could reduce overall health care spending, and/or higher income or corporate taxes, which could depress spending overall. Recessionary conditions and depressed levels of consumer and commercial spending may also cause customers to reduce, modify, delay or cancel plans to purchase our products and may cause suppliers to reduce their output or change their terms of sale. We generally sell products to customers with payment terms. If customers’ cash flow or operating and financial performance deteriorate, or if they are unable to make scheduled payments or obtain credit, they may not be able to, or may delay, payment to us. Likewise, for similar reasons suppliers may restrict credit or impose different payment terms. REGULATORY AND LITIGATION RISKS Failure to comply with existing and future regulatory requirements could materially adversely affect our business. The laws and regulations that govern our business and operations are subject to varying and evolving interpretations, future changes, additions, and enforcement approaches (including in light of political changes, such as with respect to the new administration of President Biden) that affect our ability to comply. For example, President Biden’s administration has authorized and encouraged a freeze on certain federal regulations that have been published but are not yet effective, as well as a review of all federal regulations issued during President Trump’s administration. Changes with respect to the applicable laws and regulations may require us to update or revise our operations, services, marketing practices, and compliance programs and controls, and may impose additional and unforeseen costs on us, pose new or previously immaterial risks to us, or may otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business. There can be no assurance that current and future government regulations will not adversely affect our business, and we cannot predict new regulatory priorities, the form, content or timing of regulatory actions, and their impact on the health care industry and on our business and operations. Global efforts toward healthcare cost containment continue to exert pressure on product pricing. In the United States, in addition to other government efforts to control health care costs, there has been increased scrutiny on drug pricing and concurrent efforts to control or reduce drug costs by Congress, the President, executive branch agencies and various states. At the state level, several states have adopted laws that require drug manufacturers to provide advance notice of certain price increases and to report information relating to those price increases, while others have taken legislative or administrative action to establish prescription drug affordability boards or multi-payer purchasing pools to reduce the cost of prescription drugs. At the federal level, several related bills have been introduced and regulations proposed which, if enacted or finalized, respectively, would impact drug pricing and related costs. Under the Physician Payment Sunshine Act, we are required to collect and report detailed information regarding certain financial relationships we have with covered recipients, such as physicians, dentists and teaching hospitals. We or our subsidiaries may be required to report information under certain state transparency laws that address circumstances not covered by the Physician Payment Sunshine Act, and some of these state laws, as well as the federal law, can be ambiguous. We are also subject to foreign regulations requiring transparency of certain interactions between suppliers and their customers. While we believe we have substantially compliant programs and controls in place satisfying the above laws and requirements, such compliance imposes additional costs on us and the requirements are sometimes ambiguous. In the United States, government actions to seek to increase health-related price transparency may also affect our business. 31 Our business is subject to additional requirements under various local, state, federal and international laws and regulations applicable to the sale and distribution of, and third-party payment for, pharmaceuticals and medical devices, human cells, tissue and cellular and tissue-based products (“HCT/P products”). Among the federal laws with which we must comply are the Controlled Substances Act, the U.S. Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, as amended (“FDC Act”), the Federal Drug Quality and Security Act, including Drug Supply Chain Security Act (“DSCSA”), and Section 361 of the Public Health Services Act. Among other things, such laws, and the regulations promulgated thereunder: • regulate the storage and distribution, labeling, packaging, handling, reporting, record keeping, introduction, manufacturing and marketing of drugs, HCT/P products and medical devices, including requirements with respect to unique medical device identifiers; • subject us to inspection by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (“FDA”) and the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration (“DEA”), and similar state authorities; • regulate the storage, transportation and disposal of certain of our products that are considered hazardous materials; • require us to advertise and promote our drugs and devices in accordance with applicable FDA requirements; • require registration with the FDA and the DEA and various state agencies; • require record keeping and documentation of transactions involving drug products; • require us to design and operate a system to identify and report suspicious orders of controlled substances to the DEA; • require us to manage returns of products that have been recalled and subject us to inspection of our recall procedures and activities; • impose on us reporting requirements if a pharmaceutical, HCT/P product or medical device causes serious illness, injury or death; • require manufacturers, wholesalers, repackagers and dispensers of prescription drugs to identify and trace certain prescription drugs as they are distributed; • require the licensing of prescription drug wholesalers and third-party logistics providers; and • mandate compliance with standards for the recordkeeping, storage and handling of prescription drugs, and associated reporting requirements. The FDA has become increasingly active in addressing the regulation of computer software and digital health products intended for use in health care settings. The 21st Century Cures Act (the “Cures Act”), signed into law on December 13, 2016, among other things, amended the medical device definition to exclude certain software from FDA regulation, including certain clinical decision support software. Certain of our businesses involve the development and sale of software and related products to support physician and dental practice management, and it is possible that the FDA or foreign government authorities could determine that one or more of our products is subject to regulation as a medical device, which could subject us or one or more of our businesses to substantial additional requirements, costs, and potential enforcement actions or liabilities for noncompliance with respect to these products. Applicable federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations also may require us to meet various standards relating to, among other things, licensure or registration, program eligibility, procurement, third-party reimbursement, sales and marketing practices, product integrity and supply tracking to product manufacturers, product labeling, personnel, privacy and security of health or other personal information, installation, maintenance and repair of equipment and the importation and exportation of products. The FDA and DEA, as well as CMS (including with respect to complex Medicare reimbursement requirements applicable to our specialty home medical supplies business), have recently increased their regulatory and enforcement activities and, in particular, the DEA has heightened enforcement activities due to the opioid crisis in the United States. Our business is also subject to requirements of similar and other foreign governmental laws and regulations affecting our operations abroad. The failure to comply with any of these laws and regulations, or new interpretations of existing laws and regulations, or the imposition of any additional laws and regulations, could materially adversely affect our business. The costs to us associated with complying with the various applicable statutes and regulations, as they now exist and as they may be modified, could be material. Allegations by a governmental body that we have not complied with these laws could have a material adverse effect on our businesses. While we believe that we are substantially 32 compliant with applicable laws and regulations, and believe we have adequate compliance programs and controls in place to ensure substantial compliance, if it is determined that we have not complied with these laws, we are potentially subject to penalties, including warning letters, substantial civil and criminal penalties, mandatory recall of product, seizure of product and injunction, consent decrees and suspension or limitation of product sale and distribution. If we enter into settlement agreements to resolve allegations of non-compliance, we could be required to make settlement payments or be subject to civil and criminal penalties, including fines and the loss of licenses. Non-compliance with government requirements could also adversely affect our ability to participate in important federal and state government health care programs, such as Medicare and Medicaid, and damage our reputation. The EU Medical Device Regulation may adversely affect our business. The EU Medical Device Regulation No. 2017/745 (“EU MDR”) was meant to become applicable three years after publication (in May 2020). However, on April 23, 2020, to allow EEA national authorities, notified bodies, manufacturers and other actors to focus fully on urgent priorities related to the COVID-19 pandemic, the European Council and Parliament adopted Regulation 2020/561, postponing the date of application of the EU MDR by one year (to May 2021). The EU MDR significantly modifies and intensifies the regulatory compliance requirements for the medical device industry as a whole. Once applicable, the EU MDR will among other things: • Strengthen the rules on placing devices on the market and reinforce surveillance once they are available; • Establish explicit provisions on manufacturers’ responsibilities for the follow-up of the quality, performance and safety of devices placed on the market; • Improve the traceability of medical devices throughout the supply chain to the end-user or patient through a unique identification number; • Set up a central database to provide patients, healthcare professionals and the public with comprehensive information on products available in the EU; • Strengthen rules for the assessment of certain high-risk devices, such as implants, which may have to undergo an additional check by experts before they are placed on the market; and • Identify importers and distributors and medical device products through registration in a database (EudaMed not due until 2022 and after). In particular, the EU MDR imposes stricter requirements for the confirmation that a product meets the regulatory requirements, including regarding a product’s clinical evaluation and a company’s quality systems, and for the distribution, marketing and sale of medical devices, including post-market surveillance. Medical devices that have been assessed and/or certified under the EU Medical Device Directive may continue to be placed on the market until 2024 (or until the expiry of their certificates, if applicable and earlier); however, requirements regarding the distribution, marketing and sale including quality systems and post-market surveillance have to be observed by manufacturers, importers and distributors as of the application date. The modifications created by the EU MDR may have an impact on the way we design and manufacture products and the way we conduct our business in the European Economic Area. If we fail to comply with laws and regulations relating to health care fraud or other laws and regulations, we could suffer penalties or be required to make significant changes to our operations, which could materially adversely affect our business. Certain of our businesses are subject to federal and state (and similar foreign) health care fraud and abuse, referral and reimbursement laws and regulations with respect to their operations. Some of these laws, referred to as “false claims laws,” prohibit the submission or causing the submission of false or fraudulent claims for reimbursement to federal, state and other health care payers and programs. Other laws, referred to as “anti-kickback laws,” prohibit soliciting, offering, receiving or paying remuneration in order to induce the referral of a patient or ordering, purchasing, leasing or arranging for, or recommending ordering, purchasing or leasing of, items or services that are paid for by federal, state and other health care payers and programs. Certain additional state and federal laws, such as the federal Physician Self-Referral Law, commonly known as the “Stark Law,” prohibit physicians and other health professionals from referring a patient to an entity with which the physician (or family member) has a 33 financial relationship, for the furnishing of certain designated health services (for example, durable medical equipment and medical supplies), unless an exception applies. The fraud and abuse laws and regulations have been subject to heightened enforcement activity over the past few years, and significant enforcement activity has been the result of “relators” who serve as whistleblowers by filing complaints in the name of the United States (and if applicable, particular states) under applicable false claims laws, and who may receive up to 30% of total government recoveries. Penalties under fraud and abuse laws may be severe, and could result in significant civil and criminal penalties and costs, including the loss of licenses and the ability to participate in federal and state health care programs, and could have a material adverse effect on our business. Also, these measures may be interpreted or applied by a prosecutorial, regulatory or judicial authority in a manner that could require us to make changes in our operations or incur substantial defense and settlement expenses. Even unsuccessful challenges by regulatory authorities or private relators could result in reputational harm and the incurring of substantial costs. Most states have adopted similar state false claims laws, and these state laws have their own penalties which may be in addition to federal False Claims Act penalties, as well as other fraud and abuse laws. With respect to measures of this type, the United States government (among others) has expressed concerns about financial relationships between suppliers on the one hand and physicians, dentists and other health care providers, on the other. As a result, we regularly review and revise our marketing practices as necessary to facilitate compliance. In the EU, the Directive No. 2019/1937 of 23 October 2019 on the protection of persons who report breaches of Union law which organizes the legal protection of whistleblowers must be implemented by EU member states by December 17, 2021. This Directive covers whistleblowers reporting breaches of certain EU laws, in particular as regards public health, the above-mentioned Directive No. 2001/83, Regulation No. 726/2004 or, as regards data protection, the GDPR. The Directive protects a wide range of people and includes former employees. All private companies with 50 or more employees are required to create effective internal reporting channels. We also are subject to certain United States and foreign laws and regulations concerning the conduct of our foreign operations, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, German anti-corruption laws and other anti-bribery laws and laws pertaining to the accuracy of our internal books and records, which have been the focus of increasing enforcement activity globally in recent years. Our businesses are generally subject to numerous other laws and regulations that could impact our financial results, including, without limitation, securities, antitrust, consumer protection, and marketing laws and regulations. In the EU, both active and passive bribery are criminalized. The EU Council Framework Decision 2003/568/JHA of 22 July 2003 on combating corruption in the private sector establishes more detailed rules on the liability of legal persons and deterrent sanctions. However, the liability of legal persons is regulated at a national level. Failure to comply with fraud and abuse laws and regulations, and other laws and regulations, could result in significant civil and criminal penalties and costs, including the loss of licenses and the ability to participate in federal and state health care programs, and could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may determine to enter into settlements, make payments, agree to consent decrees or enter into other arrangements to resolve such matters. Intentional or unintentional failure to comply with consent decrees could materially adversely affect our business. While we believe that we are substantially compliant with applicable fraud and abuse and other laws and regulations, and believe we have adequate compliance programs and controls in place to ensure substantial compliance, we cannot predict whether changes in applicable law, or interpretation of laws, or changes in our services or marketing practices in response to changes in applicable law or interpretation of laws, could have a material adverse effect on our business. 34 If we fail to comply with laws and regulations relating to the confidentiality of sensitive personal information or standards in electronic health records or transmissions, we could be required to make significant changes to our products, or incur substantial fines, penalties or other liabilities. Our businesses that involve physician and dental practice management products, and our specialty home medical supply business, include electronic information technology systems that store and process personal health, clinical, financial and other sensitive information of individuals. These information technology systems may be vulnerable to breakdown, wrongful intrusions, data breaches and malicious attack, which could require us to expend significant resources to eliminate these problems and address related security concerns, and could involve claims against us by private parties and/or governmental agencies. We are directly or indirectly subject to numerous and evolving federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that protect the privacy and security of personal information, such as the HIPAA, the Controlling the Assault of Non-Solicited Pornography and Marketing Act, the Telephone Protection and Electronic Protection Act of 1991, Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act, the CCPA, and the CPRA that becomes effective on January 1, 2023. Laws and regulations relating to privacy and data protection are continually evolving and subject to potentially differing interpretations. These requirements may not be harmonized, may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another or may conflict with other rules or our practices. Our businesses’ failure to comply with these laws and regulations could expose us to breach of contract claims, substantial fines, penalties and other liabilities and expenses, costs for remediation and harm to our reputation. Also, evolving laws and regulations in this area could restrict the ability of our customers to obtain, use or disseminate patient information, or could require us to incur significant additional costs to re-design our products to reflect these legal requirements, which could have a material adverse effect on our operations. In addition, the European Parliament and the Council of the European Union have adopted the GDPR, which increases privacy rights for individuals in Europe, or “Data Subjects”, including individuals who are our customers, suppliers and employees. The GDPR extended the scope of responsibilities for data controllers and data processors and generally imposes increased requirements and potential penalties on companies, such as us, that offer goods or services to Data Subjects or monitor their behavior (including by companies based outside of Europe). Noncompliance can result in penalties of up to the greater of EUR 20 million, or 4% of global company revenues. Data Subjects also have the right to seek compensation for damages. EU member states may individually impose additional requirements and penalties regarding certain matters, such as employee personal data. In the United States, the CCPA, which increases the privacy protections afforded California residents, became effective January 1, 2020. The CCPA generally requires companies, such as us, to institute additional protections regarding the collection, use and disclosure of certain personal information of California residents. Compliance with the new obligations imposed by the CCPA depends in part on how particular regulators interpret and apply them, and because the CCPA is relatively new, and its implementing regulations were released in August of 2020, there remains some uncertainty about how the CCPA will be interpreted by the courts and enforced by the regulators. If we fail to comply with the CCPA or if regulators assert that we have failed to comply with the CCPA, we may be subject to certain fines or other penalties and litigation, any of which may negatively impact our reputation, require us to expend significant resources, and harm our business. Furthermore, California voters approved the CPRA on November 3, 2020, which will amend and expand the CCPA, including by providing consumers with additional rights with respect to their personal information, and creating a new state agency to enforce CCPA and CPRA. The CPRA will come into effect on January 1, 2023, applying to information collected by businesses on or after January 1, 2022. Other states, as well as the federal government, have increasingly considered the adoption of similarly expansive personal privacy laws, backed by significant civil penalties for non-compliance. While we believe we have substantially compliant programs and controls in place to comply with the GDPR, CCPA and CPRA requirements, our compliance with these measures is likely to impose additional costs on us, and we cannot predict whether the interpretations of the requirements, or changes in our practices in response to new requirements or interpretations of the requirements, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We also sell products and services that health care providers, such as physicians and dentists, use to store and manage patient medical or dental records. These customers and we are subject to laws, regulations and industry 35 standards, such as HIPAA and the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards, which require the protection of the privacy and security of those records. Our products or services may be used as part of these customers’ comprehensive data security programs, including in connection with their efforts to comply with applicable data privacy and security laws and contractual requirements. Perceived or actual security vulnerabilities in our products or services, or the perceived or actual failure by us or our customers who use our products or services to comply with applicable legal or contractual data privacy and security requirements, may not only cause us significant reputational harm, but may also lead to claims against us by our customers and/or governmental agencies and involve substantial fines, penalties and other liabilities and expenses and costs for remediation. Under the EU GDPR, health data belong to the category of “sensitive data” and benefit from specific protections. Processing of such data is generally prohibited, except for specific exceptions. Certain of our businesses involve the manufacture and sale of electronic health record (“EHR”) systems and other products linked to government supported incentive programs, where the EHR systems must be certified as having certain capabilities designated in evolving standards, such as those adopted by CMS and by the Office of the National Coordinator for Health Information Technology of HHS (“ONC”). In order to maintain certification of our EHR products, we must satisfy the changing governmental standards. If any of our EHR systems do not meet these standards, yet have been relied upon by health care providers to receive federal incentive payments, we may be exposed to risk, such as under federal health care fraud and abuse laws, including the False Claims Act. While we believe we are substantially in compliance with such certifications and with applicable fraud and abuse laws and regulations and that we have adequate compliance programs and controls in place to ensure substantial compliance, we cannot predict whether changes in applicable law, or interpretation of laws, or resulting changes in our, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Moreover, in order to satisfy our customers, our products may need to incorporate increasingly complex reporting functionality. Although we believe we are positioned to accomplish this, the effort may involve increased costs, and our failure to implement product modifications, or otherwise satisfy applicable standards, could have a material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, as electronic medical devices are increasingly connected to each other and to other technology, the ability of these connected systems to safely and effectively exchange and use exchanged information becomes increasingly important. As a medical device manufacturer, we must manage risks including those associated with an electronic interface that is incorporated into a medical device. Tax legislation could materially adversely affect our financial results and tax liabilities. We are subject to the tax laws and regulations of the United States federal, state and local governments, as well as foreign jurisdictions. From time to time, various legislative initiatives may be proposed that could materially adversely affect our tax positions. There can be no assurance that our effective tax rate will not be materially adversely affected by legislation resulting from these initiatives. In addition, tax laws and regulations are extremely complex and subject to varying interpretations. Although we believe that our historical tax positions are sound and consistent with applicable laws, regulations and existing precedent, there can be no assurance that our tax positions will not be challenged by relevant tax authorities or that we would be successful in any such challenge. We face inherent risk of exposure to product liability, intellectual property infringement and other claims in the event that the use of the products we sell results in injury. Our business involves a risk of product liability, intellectual property infringement and other claims in the ordinary course of business, and from time to time we are named as a defendant in cases as a result of our distribution of products. Additionally, we own interests in companies that manufacture certain dental products. As a result, we could be subject to the potential risk of product liability, intellectual property infringement or other claims relating to the manufacture and distribution of products by those entities. In addition, as our private-label business continues to grow, purchasers of such products may increasingly seek recourse directly from us, rather than the ultimate product manufacturer, for product-related claims. Another potential risk we face in the distribution of our products is liability resulting from counterfeit or tainted products infiltrating the supply chain. In addition, some of the products that we transport and sell are considered hazardous materials. The improper handling of such materials or 36 accidents involving the transportation of such materials could subject us to liability or at least legal action that could harm our reputation. GENERAL RISKS Security risks generally associated with our information systems and our technology products and services could materially adversely affect our business, and our results of operations could be materially adversely affected if such products, services or systems (or third-party systems we rely on) are interrupted, damaged by unforeseen events, are subject to cyberattacks or fail for any extended period of time. We rely on information systems (IS) in our business to obtain, rapidly process, analyze, manage and store customer, product, supplier and employee data to, among other things: • maintain and manage worldwide systems to facilitate the purchase and distribution of thousands of inventory items from numerous distribution centers; • receive, process and ship orders on a timely basis; • manage the accurate billing and collections for thousands of customers; • process payments to suppliers; and • provide products and services that maintain certain of our customers’ electronic medical or dental records (including protected health information of their patients). Information security risks have generally increased in recent years, and a cyberattack that bypasses our IS security systems (including third-party systems we rely on) causing an IS security breach may lead to a material disruption of our IS business systems (including third-party systems we rely on) and/or the loss of business information, as well as claims against us by affected parties and/or governmental agencies, and involve fines and penalties, costs for remediation, and substantial defense and settlement expenses. In addition, we develop products and provide services to our customers that are technology-based, and a cyberattack that bypasses the IS security systems of our products or services causing a security breach and/or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products or services could also cause significant loss of business and reputational harm, and actual or perceived vulnerabilities may lead to claims against us by our customers and/or governmental agencies. In particular, certain of our practice management products and services purchased by health care providers, such as physicians and dentists, are used to store and manage patient medical or dental records. These customers are subject to laws and regulations which require that they protect the privacy and security of those records, and our products may be used as part of these customers’ comprehensive data security programs, including in connection with their efforts to comply with applicable privacy and security laws. Perceived or actual security vulnerabilities in our products or services, or the perceived or actual failure by us or our customers who use our products to comply with applicable legal requirements, may not only cause reputational harm and loss of business, but may also lead to claims against us by our customers and/or governmental agencies and involve damages, fines and penalties, costs for remediation, and substantial defense and settlement expenses. In addition, a cyberattack on a third-party that we use to manage a portion of our information systems could result in the same effects. Additionally, legislative or regulatory action related to cybersecurity may increase our costs to develop or implement new technology products and services. Furthermore, procedures and safeguards must continually evolve to meet new IS challenges, and enhancing protections, and conducting investigations and remediation, may impose additional costs on us. Finally, our business may be interrupted by shortfalls of IS systems providers engaged by our customers, such as Internet-based services upon which our customers depend to access certain of our products. Our global operations are subject to inherent risks that could materially adversely affect our business. Our global operations are subject to risks that may materially adversely affect our business. The risks that our global operations are subject to include, among other things: • difficulties and costs relating to staffing and managing foreign operations; • difficulties and delays inherent in sourcing products, establishing channels of distribution and contract manufacturing in foreign markets; 37 • fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies (including, without limitation, in connection with Brexit); • uncertainties relating to the EU-UK Trade and Cooperation Agreement of December 2020, including for example potential implementation problems such as border delays, as well as potential changes to the U.K. regulatory scheme to replace EU requirements; • longer payment cycles of foreign customers and difficulty of collecting receivables in foreign jurisdictions; • repatriation of cash from our foreign operations to the United States; • regulatory requirements, including without limitation, anti-bribery, anti-corruption and laws pertaining to the accuracy of our internal books and records; • unexpected difficulties in importing or exporting our products and import/export tariffs, quotas, sanctions or penalties; • limitations on our ability under local laws to protect our intellectual property; • unexpected regulatory, legal, economic and political changes in foreign markets; • changes in tax regulations that influence purchases of capital equipment; • civil disturbances, geopolitical turmoil, including terrorism, war or political or military coups; and • public health emergencies, including COVID-19. Our future success is substantially dependent upon our senior management, and our revenues and profitability depend on our relationships with capable sales personnel as well as customers, suppliers and manufacturers of the products that we distribute. Our future success is substantially dependent upon the efforts and abilities of members of our existing senior management, particularly Stanley M. Bergman, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. The loss of the services of Mr. Bergman could have a material adverse effect on our business. We have an employment agreement with Mr. Bergman. We do not currently have “key man” life insurance policies on any of our employees. Competition for senior management is intense and we may not be successful in attracting and retaining key personnel. Additionally, our future revenues and profitability depend on our ability to maintain satisfactory relationships with qualified sales personnel as well as customers, suppliers and manufacturers. If we fail to maintain our existing relationships with such persons or fail to acquire relationships with such key persons in the future, our business may be materially adversely affected. Disruptions in the financial markets may materially adversely affect the availability and cost of credit to us. Our ability to make scheduled payments or refinance our obligations with respect to indebtedness will depend on our operating and financial performance, which in turn is subject to prevailing economic conditions and financial, business and other factors beyond our control. Disruptions in the financial markets may materially adversely affect the availability and cost of credit to us.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements In accordance with the “Safe Harbor” provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, we provide the following cautionary remarks regarding important factors that, among others, could cause future results to differ materially from the forward-looking statements, expectations and assumptions expressed or implied herein. All forward-looking statements made by us are subject to risks and uncertainties and are not guarantees of future performance. These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause our actual results, performance and achievements or industry results to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. These statements are generally identified by the use of such terms as “may,” “could,” “expect,” “intend,” “believe,” “plan,” “estimate,” “forecast,” “project,” “anticipate,” “to be,” “to make” or other comparable terms. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and in particular the risks discussed under the caption “Risk Factors” in Item 1A of this report and those that may be discussed in other documents we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Forward looking statements include the overall impact of the Novel Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19) on the Company, its results of operations, liquidity, and financial condition (including any estimates of the impact on these items), the rate and consistency with which dental and other practices resume or maintain normal operations in the United States and internationally, expectations regarding personal protective equipment (“PPE”) and COVID-19 related product sales and inventory levels and whether additional resurgences of the virus will adversely impact the resumption of normal operations, the impact of restructuring programs as well as of any future acquisitions, and more generally current expectations regarding performance in current and future periods. Forward looking statements also include the (i) ability of the Company to make additional testing available, the nature of those tests and the number of tests intended to be made available and the timing for availability, the nature of the target market, as well as the efficacy or relative efficacy of the test results given that the test efficacy has not been, or will not have been, independently verified under normal FDA procedures and (ii) potential for the Company to distribute the COVID-19 vaccines and ancillary supplies. Risk factors and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from current and historical results include, but are not limited to: risks associated with COVID-19, as well as other disease outbreaks, epidemics, pandemics, or similar wide spread public health concerns and other natural disasters or acts of terrorism; our dependence on third parties for the manufacture and supply of our products; our ability to develop or acquire and maintain and protect new products (particularly technology products) and technologies that achieve market acceptance with acceptable margins; transitional challenges associated with acquisitions, dispositions and joint ventures, including the failure to achieve anticipated synergies/benefits; financial and tax risks associated with acquisitions, dispositions and joint ventures; certain provisions in our governing documents that may discourage third-party acquisitions of us; effects of a highly competitive (including, without limitation, competition from third- party online commerce sites) and consolidating market; the potential repeal or judicial prohibition on implementation of the Affordable Care Act; changes in the health care industry; risks from expansion of customer purchasing power and multi-tiered costing structures; increases in shipping costs for our products or other service issues with our third-party shippers; general global macro-economic and political conditions, including international trade agreements and potential trade barriers; failure to comply with existing and future regulatory requirements; risks associated with the EU Medical Device Regulation; failure to comply with laws and regulations relating to health care fraud or other laws and regulations; failure to comply with laws and regulations relating to the confidentiality of sensitive personal information or standards in electronic health records or transmissions; changes in tax legislation; litigation risks; new or unanticipated litigation developments and the status of litigation matters; cyberattacks or other privacy or data security breaches; risks associated with our global operations; our dependence on our senior management, as well as employee hiring and retention; and disruptions in financial markets. The order in which these factors appear should not be construed to indicate their relative importance or priority. 44 We caution that these factors may not be exhaustive and that many of these factors are beyond our ability to control or predict. Accordingly, any forward-looking statements contained herein should not be relied upon as a prediction of actual results. We undertake no duty and have no obligation to update forward-looking statements. Where You Can Find Important Information We may disclose important information through one or more of the following channels: SEC filings, public conference calls and webcasts, press releases, the investor relations page of our website (www.henryschein.com) and the social media channels identified on the Newsroom page of our website. Recent Developments COVID-19 Pandemic In March 2020, the World Health Organization declared COVID-19 a pandemic. The COVID-19 pandemic has negatively impacted the global economy, disrupted global supply chains and created significant volatility and disruption of global financial markets. In response, many countries implemented business closures and restrictions, stay-at-home and social distancing ordinances and similar measures to combat the pandemic, which significantly impacted global business and dramatically reduced demand for dental products and certain medical products beginning in the second quarter of 2020. Demand increased in the second half of 2020 resulting in slight growth over the prior year driven by sales of PPE and COVID-19 related products. Our consolidated financial statements reflect estimates and assumptions made by us that affect, among other things, our goodwill, long-lived asset and definite-lived intangible asset valuation; inventory valuation; equity investment valuation; assessment of the annual effective tax rate; valuation of deferred income taxes and income tax contingencies; the allowance for doubtful accounts; hedging activity; vendor rebates; measurement of compensation cost for certain share-based performance awards and cash bonus plans; and pension plan assumptions. Due to the significant uncertainty surrounding the future impact of COVID-19, our judgments regarding estimates and impairments could change in the future. In addition, the impact of COVID-19 had a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and cash flows, primarily in the second quarter of 2020. In the latter half of the second quarter, dental and medical practices began to re-open worldwide, and continued to do so during the second half of 2020. However, patient volumes have remained below pre-COVID-19 levels and certain regions in the U.S. and internationally are experiencing an increase in COVID-19 cases. As such, there is an ongoing risk that the COVID-19 pandemic may again materially adversely effect our business, results of operations and cash flows and may result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and liquidity. However, the extent of the potential impact cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. As part of a broad-based effort to support plans for the long-term health of our business and to strengthen our financial flexibility, we implemented cost reduction measures that included certain reductions in payroll, substantially decreased capital expenditures, reduced corporate spending and eliminated certain non-strategic targeted expenditures. As our markets began to recover, we substantially ended most of those temporary expense- reduction initiatives during the second half of 2020. Corporate Transactions During the fourth quarter of 2019, we sold an equity investment in Hu-Friedy Mfg. Co., LLC (“Hu-Friedy”), a manufacturer of dental instruments and infection prevention solutions. Our investment was non-controlling, we were not involved in running the business and had no representation on the board of directors. During the fourth quarter of 2019, we also sold certain other equity investments. In the aggregate, the sales of these investments resulted in a pre-tax gain in 2019 of approximately $250.2 million and an after-tax gain of approximately $186.8 million. In the fourth quarter of 2020 we received contingent proceeds of $2.1 million from the 2019 sale of Hu- Friedy resulting in the recognition of an additional after-tax gain of $1.6 million. On February 7, 2019 (the “Distribution Date”), we completed the separation (the “Separation”) and subsequent merger of our animal health business (the “Henry Schein Animal Health Business”) with Direct Vet Marketing, Inc. (d/b/a Vets First Choice, “Vets First Choice”) (the “Merger”). This was accomplished by a series of transactions 45 among us, Vets First Choice, Covetrus, Inc. (f/k/a HS Spinco, Inc. “Covetrus”), a wholly owned subsidiary of ours prior to the Distribution Date, and HS Merger Sub, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Covetrus (“Merger Sub”). In connection with the Separation, we contributed, assigned and transferred to Covetrus certain applicable assets, liabilities and capital stock or other ownership interests relating to the Henry Schein Animal Health Business. On the Distribution Date, we received a tax-free distribution of $1,120 million from Covetrus pursuant to certain debt financing incurred by Covetrus. On the Distribution Date and prior to the Animal Health Spin-off, Covetrus issued shares of Covetrus common stock to certain institutional accredited investors (the “Share Sale Investors”) for $361.1 million (the “Share Sale”). The proceeds of the Share Sale were paid to Covetrus and distributed to us. Subsequent to the Share Sale, we distributed, on a pro rata basis, all of the shares of the common stock of Covetrus held by us to our stockholders of record as of the close of business on January 17, 2019 (the “Animal Health Spin-off”). After the Share Sale and Animal Health Spin-off, Merger Sub consummated the Merger whereby it merged with and into Vets First Choice, with Vets First Choice surviving the Merger as a wholly owned subsidiary of Covetrus. Immediately following the consummation of the Merger, on a fully diluted basis, (i) approximately 63% of the shares of Covetrus common stock were (a) owned by our stockholders and the Share Sale Investors, and (b) held by certain employees of the Henry Schein Animal Health Business (in the form of certain equity awards), and (ii) approximately 37% of the shares of Covetrus common stock were (a) owned by stockholders of Vets First Choice immediately prior to the Merger, and (b) held by certain employees of Vets First Choice (in the form of certain equity awards). After the Separation and the Merger, we no longer beneficially owned any shares of Covetrus common stock and, following the Distribution Date, will not consolidate the financial results of Covetrus for the purpose of our financial reporting. Following the Separation and the Merger, Covetrus was an independent, publicly traded company on the Nasdaq Global Select Market. Executive-Level Overview We believe we are the world’s largest provider of health care products and services primarily to office-based dental and medical practitioners, as well as alternate sites of care. We serve more than one million customers worldwide including dental practitioners and laboratories and physician practices, as well as government, institutional health care clinics and other alternate care clinics. We believe that we have a strong brand identity due to our more than 88 years of experience distributing health care products. We are headquartered in Melville, New York, employ more than 19,000 people (of which more than 9,800 are based outside the United States) and have operations or affiliates in 31 countries and territories, including the United States, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, the Czech Republic, France, Germany, Hong Kong SAR, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Malaysia, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Poland, Portugal, Singapore, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, United Arab Emirates and the United Kingdom. We have established strategically located distribution centers to enable us to better serve our customers and increase our operating efficiency. This infrastructure, together with broad product and service offerings at competitive prices, and a strong commitment to customer service, enables us to be a single source of supply for our customers’ needs. Our infrastructure also allows us to provide convenient ordering and rapid, accurate and complete order fulfillment. We conduct our business through two reportable segments: (i) health care distribution and (ii) technology and value-added services. These segments offer different products and services to the same customer base. The health care distribution reportable segment aggregates our global dental and medical operating segments. This segment distributes consumable products, small equipment, laboratory products, large equipment, equipment repair services, branded and generic pharmaceuticals, vaccines, surgical products, diagnostic tests, infection-control products and vitamins. Our global dental group serves office-based dental practitioners, dental laboratories, schools and other institutions. Our global medical group serves office-based medical practitioners, ambulatory surgery centers, other alternate-care settings and other institutions. Our global technology and value-added services group provides software, technology and other value-added services to health care practitioners. Our technology group offerings include practice management software systems for dental and medical practitioners. Our value-added practice solutions include financial services on a 46 non-recourse basis, e-services, practice technology, network and hardware services, as well as continuing education services for practitioners. Industry Overview In recent years, the health care industry has increasingly focused on cost containment. This trend has benefited distributors capable of providing a broad array of products and services at low prices. It also has accelerated the growth of HMOs, group practices, other managed care accounts and collective buying groups, which, in addition to their emphasis on obtaining products at competitive prices, tend to favor distributors capable of providing specialized management information support. We believe that the trend towards cost containment has the potential to favorably affect demand for technology solutions, including software, which can enhance the efficiency and facilitation of practice management. Our operating results in recent years have been significantly affected by strategies and transactions that we undertook to expand our business, domestically and internationally, in part to address significant changes in the health care industry, including consolidation of health care distribution companies, health care reform, trends toward managed care, cuts in Medicare and collective purchasing arrangements. Our current and future results have been and could be impacted by the current economic environment and uncertainty, particularly impacting overall demand for our products and services. Industry Consolidation The health care products distribution industry, as it relates to office-based health care practitioners, is fragmented and diverse. The industry ranges from sole practitioners working out of relatively small offices to group practices or service organizations ranging in size from a few practitioners to a large number of practitioners who have combined or otherwise associated their practices. Due in part to the inability of office-based health care practitioners to store and manage large quantities of supplies in their offices, the distribution of health care supplies and small equipment to office-based health care practitioners has been characterized by frequent, small quantity orders, and a need for rapid, reliable and substantially complete order fulfillment. The purchasing decisions within an office-based health care practice are typically made by the practitioner or an administrative assistant. Supplies and small equipment are generally purchased from more than one distributor, with one generally serving as the primary supplier. The trend of consolidation extends to our customer base. Health care practitioners are increasingly seeking to partner, affiliate or combine with larger entities such as hospitals, health systems, group practices or physician hospital organizations. In many cases, purchasing decisions for consolidated groups are made at a centralized or professional staff level; however, orders are delivered to the practitioners’ offices. We believe that consolidation within the industry will continue to result in a number of distributors, particularly those with limited financial, operating and marketing resources, seeking to combine with larger companies that can provide growth opportunities. This consolidation also may continue to result in distributors seeking to acquire companies that can enhance their current product and service offerings or provide opportunities to serve a broader customer base. Our trend with regard to acquisitions and joint ventures has been to expand our role as a provider of products and services to the health care industry. This trend has resulted in our expansion into service areas that complement our existing operations and provide opportunities for us to develop synergies with, and thus strengthen, the acquired businesses. As industry consolidation continues, we believe that we are positioned to capitalize on this trend, as we believe we have the ability to support increased sales through our existing infrastructure, although there can be no assurances that we will be able to successfully accomplish this. We also have invested in expanding our sales/marketing infrastructure to include a focus on building relationships with decision makers who do not reside in the office- based practitioner setting. 47 As the health care industry continues to change, we continually evaluate possible candidates for merger and joint venture or acquisition and intend to continue to seek opportunities to expand our role as a provider of products and services to the health care industry. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully pursue any such opportunity or consummate any such transaction, if pursued. If additional transactions are entered into or consummated, we would incur merger and/or acquisition-related costs, and there can be no assurance that the integration efforts associated with any such transaction would be successful. In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we had taken a range of actions to preserve cash, including the temporary suspension of significant acquisition activity. During the third and fourth quarters of 2020, as global conditions improved, we resumed our acquisition strategy. Aging Population and Other Market Influences The health care products distribution industry continues to experience growth due to the aging population, increased health care awareness, the proliferation of medical technology and testing, new pharmacology treatments and expanded third-party insurance coverage, partially offset by the effects of unemployment on insurance coverage. In addition, the physician market continues to benefit from the shift of procedures and diagnostic testing from acute care settings to alternate-care sites, particularly physicians’ offices. According to the U.S. Census Bureau’s International Data Base, in 2020 there were more than six and a half` million Americans aged 85 years or older, the segment of the population most in need of long-term care and elder- care services. By the year 2050, that number is projected to nearly triple to approximately 19 million. The population aged 65 to 84 years is projected to increase by approximately 36% during the same time period. As a result of these market dynamics, annual expenditures for health care services continue to increase in the United States. We believe that demand for our products and services will grow, while continuing to be impacted by current and future operating, economic and industry conditions. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, or CMS, published “National Health Expenditure Projections 2019-2028” indicating that total national health care spending reached approximately $3.6 trillion in 2018, or 17.7% of the nation’s gross domestic product, the benchmark measure for annual production of goods and services in the United States. Health care spending is projected to reach approximately $6.2 trillion in 2028, approximately 19.7% of the nation’s projected gross domestic product. 48 Results of Operations The following tables summarize the significant components of our operating results and cash flows from continuing operations for each of the three years ended December 26, 2020, December 28, 2019 and December 29, 2018 (in thousands): Years Ended December 26, December 28, December 29, 2020 2019 2018 Operating results: Net sales $ 10,119,141 $ 9,985,803 $ 9,417,603 Cost of sales 7,304,798 6,894,917 6,506,856 Gross profit 2,814,343 3,090,886 2,910,747 Operating expenses: Selling, general and administrative 2,246,947 2,357,920 2,217,273 Litigation settlements - - 38,488 Restructuring costs 32,093 14,705 54,367 Operating income $ 535,303 $ 718,261 $ 600,619 Other expense, net $ (35,408) $ (37,954) $ (63,783) Net gain on sale of equity investments 1,572 186,769 - Net income from continuing operations 418,437 725,461 450,441 Income (loss) from discontinued operations 986 (6,323) 111,685 Net income attributable to Henry Schein, Inc. 403,794 694,734 535,881 Years Ended December 26, December 28, December 29, 2020 2019 2018 Cash flows: Net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations $ 593,519 $ 820,478 $ 450,955 Net cash used in investing activities from continuing operations (115,019) (422,309) (164,324) Net cash used in financing activities from continuing operations (181,794) (363,351) (402,173) Plans of Restructuring On July 9, 2018, we committed to an initiative to rationalize our operations and provide expense efficiencies. These actions allowed us to execute on our plan to reduce our cost structure and fund new initiatives to drive growth under our 2018 to 2020 strategic plan. This initiative resulted in the elimination of approximately 4% of our workforce and the closing of certain facilities. On November 20, 2019, we committed to a contemplated initiative, intended to mitigate stranded costs associated with the Animal Health Spin-off and to rationalize operations and to provide expense efficiencies. These activities were originally expected to be completed by the end of 2020. As a result of the business environment brought on by the COVID-19 pandemic, we are continuing our restructuring activities into 2021. We are currently unable in good faith to make a determination of an estimate of the amount or range of amounts expected to be incurred in connection with these activities in 2021, both with respect to each major type of cost associated therewith and with respect to the total cost, or an estimate of the amount or range of amounts that will result in future cash expenditures. During the years ended December 26, 2020, December 28, 2019, and December 29, 2018 we recorded restructuring charges of $32.1 million, $14.7 million and $54.4 million, respectively. The costs associated with these restructurings are included in a separate line item, “Restructuring costs” within our consolidated statements of income. 49 2020 Compared to 2019 Net Sales Net sales for 2020 and 2019 were as follows (in thousands): % of % of Increase / (Decrease) 2020 Total 2019 Total $ % Health care distribution (1) Dental $ 5,912,593 58.4 % $ 6,415,865 64.2 % $ (503,272) (7.8) % Medical 3,617,017 35.8 2,973,586 29.8 643,431 21.6 Total health care distribution 9,529,610 94.2 9,389,451 94.0 140,159 1.5 Technology and value-added services (2) 514,258 5.1 515,085 5.2 (827) (0.2) Total excluding Corporate TSA revenues 10,043,868 99.3 9,904,536 99.2 139,332 1.4 Corporate TSA revenues (3) 75,273 0.7 81,267 0.8 (5,994) (7.4) Total $ 10,119,141 100.0 $ 9,985,803 100.0 $ 133,338 1.3 (1) Consists of consumable products, small equipment, laboratory products, large equipment, equipment repair services, branded and generic pharmaceuticals, vaccines, surgical products, diagnostic tests, infection-control products, personal protective equipment and vitamins. (2) Consists of practice management software and other value-added products, which are distributed primarily to health care providers, and financial services on a non-recourse basis, e-services, continuing education services for practitioners, consulting and other services. (3) Corporate TSA revenues represents sales of certain products to Covetrus under the transition services agreement entered into in connection with the Animal Health Spin-off, which ended in December 2020. The 1.3% increase in net sales for the year ended December 26, 2020 includes an increase of 1.4% local currency growth (0.8% increase in internally generated revenue and 0.6% growth from acquisitions) partially offset by a decrease of 0.1% related to foreign currency exchange. Excluding sales of products under the transition services agreement with Covetrus, our net sales increased 1.4%, including local currency growth of 1.5% (0.9% increase in internally generated revenue and 0.6% growth from acquisitions) partially offset by a decrease of 0.1% related to foreign currency exchange. Sales for the year ended December 26, 2020 benefited from sales of PPE and COVID- 19 related products of approximately $1,298 million, an increase of approximately 208% versus the prior year. Future PPE and COVID-19 related product sales may be lower than what we have experienced in 2020, which were driven by rising positive COVID-19 cases and practices seeking to ensure adequate supply. The 7.8% decrease in dental net sales for the year ended December 26, 2020 includes a decrease of 7.6% in local currencies (8.0% decrease in internally generated revenue, partially offset by 0.4% growth from acquisitions) and a decrease of 0.2% related to foreign currency exchange. The 7.6% decrease in local currency sales was due to decreases in dental equipment sales and service revenues of 12.5%, all of which is attributable to a decrease in internally generated revenue and a decrease in dental consumable merchandise sales of 6.1% (6.5% decrease in internally generated revenue, partially offset by 0.4% growth from acquisitions). The COVID-19 pandemic adversely impacted our dental business beginning in mid-March of 2020 as many dental offices progressively closed or began seeing a limited number of patients, resulting in a decrease of 41.2% in second quarter dental revenues versus the same period in the prior year. However, in the second half of the year ended December 26, 2020, our dental sales began to improve as dental practices resumed activities and patient traffic increased. Global dental sales for the year ended December 26, 2020 benefited from sales of PPE and COVID-19 related products of approximately $491 million, an increase of approximately 72% versus the prior year. The 21.6% increase in medical net sales for the year ended December 26, 2020 includes an increase of 21.6% local currency growth (20.7% increase in internally generated revenue and 0.9% growth from acquisitions). The COVID-19 pandemic adversely impacted our medical business beginning in mid-March of 2020, but not as significantly as our dental business as the decrease in second quarter medical revenues was only 11.2% versus the same period in the prior year. Our medical business rebounded strongly in the second half of the year in part due to continued strong sales of PPE, such as masks, gowns and face shields, and COVID-19 related products, such as diagnostic test kits. Global medical sales for the year ended December 26, 2020 benefited from sales of PPE and COVID-19 related products of approximately $807 million, an increase of approximately 490% versus the prior year. 50 The 0.2% decrease in technology and value-added services net sales for the year ended December 26, 2020 includes a decrease of 0.3% local currency growth (3.2% decrease in internally generated revenue, partially offset by 2.9% growth from acquisitions) partially offset by an increase of 0.1% related to foreign currency exchange. The closure of dental and medical offices beginning in mid-March of 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic resulted in a decrease of 15.9% in second quarter technology and value-added services revenues versus the same period in the prior year. As dental and medical practice operations, resumed in the second half of the year, the trend for transactional software revenues improved as more patients visited practices worldwide. Although dental and medical practices continued to re-open globally in the second half of the year, patient volumes remain below pre-COVID-19 levels. As such, there is an ongoing risk that the COVID-19 pandemic may again have a material adverse effect on our net sales in future periods. Gross Profit Gross profit and gross margins for 2020 and 2019 by segment and in total were as follows (in thousands): Gross Gross Decrease 2020 Margin % 2019 Margin % $ % Health care distribution $ 2,448,991 25.7 % $ 2,717,574 28.9 % $ (268,583) (9.9) % Technology and value-added services 363,245 70.6 370,887 72.0 (7,642) (2.1) Total excluding Corporate TSA revenues 2,812,236 28.0 3,088,461 31.2 (276,225) (8.9) Corporate TSA revenues 2,107 2.8 2,425 3.0 (318) (13.1) Total $ 2,814,343 27.8 $ 3,090,886 31.0 $ (276,543) (8.9) As a result of different practices of categorizing costs associated with distribution networks throughout our industry, our gross margins may not necessarily be comparable to other distribution companies. Additionally, we realize substantially higher gross margin percentages in our technology segment than in our health care distribution segment. These higher gross margins result from being both the developer and seller of software products and services, as well as certain financial services. The software industry typically realizes higher gross margins to recover investments in research and development. In connection with the completion of the Animal Health Spin-off (see for additional details), we entered into a transition services agreement with Covetrus, pursuant to which Covetrus purchased certain products from us. The agreement, which ended in December 2020, provided that these products would be sold to Covetrus at a mark-up that ranged from 3% to 6% of our product cost to cover handling costs. Within our health care distribution segment, gross profit margins may vary from one period to the next. Changes in the mix of products sold as well as changes in our customer mix have been the most significant drivers affecting our gross profit margin. For example, sales of pharmaceutical products are generally at lower gross profit margins than other products. Conversely, sales of our private label products achieve gross profit margins that are higher than average. With respect to customer mix, sales to our large-group customers are typically completed at lower gross margins due to the higher volumes sold as opposed to the gross margin on sales to office-based practitioners, who normally purchase lower volumes at greater frequencies. Health care distribution gross profit decreased $268.6 million, or 9.9%, for the year ended December 26, 2020 compared to the prior year period, due primarily to the COVID-19 pandemic. Health care distribution gross profit margin decreased to 25.7% for the year ended December 26, 2020 from 28.9% for the comparable prior year period. The overall decrease in our health care distribution gross profit is attributable to a $232.2 million decline in gross profit due to the decrease in the gross margin rates and a $48.3 million gross profit decrease in internally generated revenue, partially offset by $11.9 million of additional gross profit from acquisitions. Gross profit margin was negatively affected by significant adjustments recorded for PPE inventory and COVID-19 related products caused by volatility of pricing and demand experienced during the year, which conditions may recur and adversely impact gross profit margins in future periods, although we do not expect material inventory adjustments to continue into 2021. During the year, we continued to earn lower vendor rebates, due to lower purchase volumes, in our health care distribution segment, which also contributes to the lower gross profit margin. 51 Technology and value-added services gross profit decreased $7.6 million, or 2.1%, for the year ended December 26, 2020 compared to the prior year period. Technology and value-added services gross profit margin decreased to 70.6% for the year ended December 26, 2020 from 72.0% for the comparable prior year period. The overall decrease in our Technology and value-added services gross profit is attributable to a decrease of $11.5 million in internally generated revenue and a decrease of $8.8 million in gross profit due to the decrease in the gross margin rates, partially offset by $12.7 million additional gross profit from acquisitions. Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses by segment and in total for 2020 and 2019 were as follows (in thousands): % of % of Respective Respective Increase / (Decrease) 2020 Net Sales 2019 Net Sales $ % Health care distribution $ 2,014,925 21.1 % $ 2,128,595 22.7 % $ (113,670) (5.3) % Technology and value-added services 264,115 51.4 244,030 47.4 20,085 8.2 Total $ 2,279,040 22.5 $ 2,372,625 23.8 $ (93,585) (3.9) Selling, general and administrative expenses (including restructuring costs in the years ended December 26, 2020 and December 28, 2019) decreased $93.6 million, or 3.9%, to $2,279.0 million for the year ended December 26, 2020 from the comparable prior year period. The $113.7 million decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses within our health care distribution segment for the year ended December 26, 2020 as compared to the prior year period was attributable to a reduction of $151.5 million of operating costs, primarily as a result of cost- saving measures taken in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, partially offset by $20.8 million of additional costs from acquired companies and an increase of $17.0 million in restructuring costs. The $20.1 million increase in selling, general and administrative expenses within our technology and value-added services segment for the year ended December 26, 2020 as compared to the prior year period was attributable to $10.5 million of additional costs from acquired companies and an increase of $9.6 million of operating costs. As a percentage of net sales, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased to 22.5% from 23.8% for the comparable prior year period. The cost savings achieved from measures taken in response to the COVID-19 pandemic are expected to diminish in future periods as most of these measures were temporary and substantially ended during the second half of 2020. As a component of total selling, general and administrative expenses, selling expenses decreased $86.4 million, or 5.9%, to $1,375.2 million for the year ended December 26, 2020 from the comparable prior year period, primarily as a result of cost-saving measures taken in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. As a percentage of net sales, selling expenses decreased to 13.6% from 14.7% for the comparable prior year period. As a component of total selling, general and administrative expenses, general and administrative expenses decreased $7.2 million, or 0.8%, to $903.8 million for the year ended December 26, 2020 from the comparable prior year period. As a percentage of net sales, general and administrative expenses decreased to 8.9% from 9.1% for the comparable prior year period. Other Expense, Net Other expense, net for the years ended 2020 and 2019 was as follows (in thousands): Variance 2020 2019 $ % Interest income $ 9,842 $ 15,757 $ (5,915) (37.5) % Interest expense (41,377) (50,792) 9,415 18.5 Other, net (3,873) (2,919) (954) (32.7) Other expense, net $ (35,408) $ (37,954) $ 2,546 6.7 Interest income decreased $5.9 million primarily due to lower interest rates and reduced late fee income. Interest expense decreased $9.4 million primarily due to lower interest rates and lower average debt balances for the year ended December 26, 2020 as compared to the prior year. 52 Income Taxes For the year ended December 26, 2020, our effective tax rate was 19.1% compared to 23.4% for the prior year period. In 2020, our effective tax rate was primarily impacted by the agreement with the U.S Internal Revenue Service on our Advanced Pricing Agreement (APA), other audit resolutions, and state and foreign income taxes and interest expense. In 2019, our effective tax rate was primarily impacted by state and foreign income taxes and interest expense. Net Gain on Sale of Equity Investments In the fourth quarter of 2020 we received contingent proceeds of $2.1 million from the 2019 sale of Hu-Friedy resulting in the recognition of an additional after-tax gain of $1.6 million. 53 2019 Compared to 2018 Net Sales Net sales for 2019 and 2018 were as follows (in thousands): % of % of Increase 2019 Total 2018 Total $ % Health care distribution (1) Dental $ 6,415,865 64.2 % $ 6,347,998 67.4 % $ 67,867 1.1 % Medical 2,973,586 29.8 2,661,166 28.3 312,420 11.7 Total health care distribution 9,389,451 94.0 9,009,164 95.7 380,287 4.2 Technology and value-added services (2) 515,085 5.2 408,439 4.3 106,646 26.1 Total excluding Corporate TSA revenues 9,904,536 99.2 9,417,603 100.0 486,933 5.2 Corporate TSA revenues (3) 81,267 0.8 - - 81,267 - Total $ 9,985,803 100.0 $ 9,417,603 100.0 $ 568,200 6.0 (1) Consists of consumable products, small equipment, laboratory products, large equipment, equipment repair services, branded and generic pharmaceuticals, vaccines, surgical products, diagnostic tests, infection-control products and vitamins. (2) Consists of practice management software and other value-added products, which are distributed primarily to health care providers, and financial services on a non-recourse basis, e-services, continuing education services for practitioners, consulting and other services. (3) Corporate TSA revenues represents sales of certain products to Covetrus under the transition services agreement entered into in connection with the Animal Health Spin-off, which ended in December 2020. The 6.0% increase in net sales for the year ended December 28, 2019 includes an increase of 7.7% local currency growth (4.4% increase in internally generated revenue and 3.3% growth from acquisitions) partially offset by a decrease of 1.7% related to foreign currency exchange. Excluding sales of products under the transition services agreement with Covetrus, our net sales increased 5.2%, including local currency growth of 6.9% (3.5% increase in internally generated revenue and 3.4% growth from acquisitions) partially offset by a decrease of 1.7% related to foreign currency exchange. The 1.1% increase in dental net sales for the year ended December 28, 2019 includes an increase of 3.4% in local currencies (2.0% increase in internally generated revenue and 1.4% growth from acquisitions) partially offset by a decrease of 2.3% related to foreign currency exchange. The 3.4% increase in local currency sales was due to increases in dental equipment sales and service revenues of 1.0%, all of which is attributable to an increase in internally generated revenue and dental consumable merchandise sales growth of 4.2% (2.3% increase in internally generated revenue and 1.9% growth from acquisitions). The 11.7% increase in medical net sales for the year ended December 28, 2019 includes an increase of 11.9% local currency growth (7.0% increase in internally generated revenue and 4.9% growth from acquisitions) partially offset by a decrease of 0.2% related to foreign currency exchange. The 26.1% increase in technology and value-added services net sales for the year ended December 28, 2019 includes an increase of 27.0% local currency growth (4.3% increase in internally generated revenue and 22.7% growth from acquisitions) partially offset by a decrease of 0.9% related to foreign currency exchange. 54 Gross Profit Gross profit and gross margins for 2019 and 2018 by segment and in total were as follows (in thousands): Gross Gross Increase 2019 Margin % 2018 Margin % $ % Health care distribution $ 2,717,574 28.9 % $ 2,628,767 29.2 % $ 88,807 3.4 % Technology and value-added services 370,887 72.0 281,980 69.0 88,907 31.5 Total excluding Corporate TSA revenues 3,088,461 31.2 2,910,747 30.9 177,714 6.1 Corporate TSA revenues 2,425 3.0 - - 2,425 - Total $ 3,090,886 31.0 $ 2,910,747 30.9 $ 180,139 6.2 As a result of different practices of categorizing costs associated with distribution networks throughout our industry, our gross margins may not necessarily be comparable to other distribution companies. Additionally, we realize substantially higher gross margin percentages in our technology segment than in our health care distribution segment. These higher gross margins result from being both the developer and seller of software products and services, as well as certain financial services. The software industry typically realizes higher gross margins to recover investments in research and development. In connection with the completion of the Animal Health Spin-off (see for additional details), we entered into a transition services agreement with Covetrus, pursuant to which Covetrus purchased certain products from us. The agreement, which ended in December 2020, provided that these products would be sold to Covetrus at a mark-up that ranged from 3% to 6% of our product cost to cover handling costs. Within our health care distribution segment, gross profit margins may vary from one period to the next. Changes in the mix of products sold as well as changes in our customer mix have been the most significant drivers affecting our gross profit margin. For example, sales of pharmaceutical products are generally at lower gross profit margins than other products. Conversely, sales of our private label products achieve gross profit margins that are higher than average. With respect to customer mix, sales to our large-group customers are typically completed at lower gross margins due to the higher volumes sold as opposed to the gross margin on sales to office-based practitioners, who normally purchase lower volumes at greater frequencies. Health care distribution gross profit increased $88.8 million, or 3.4%, for the year ended December 28, 2019 compared to the prior year period. Health care distribution gross profit margin decreased to 28.9% for the year ended December 28, 2019 from 29.2% for the comparable prior year period. The overall increase in our health care distribution gross profit is attributable to $73.1 million of additional gross profit from acquisitions and $30.9 million gross profit increase from growth in internally generated revenue. These increases were partially offset by a $15.2 million decline in gross profit due to the decrease in the gross margin rates. Technology and value-added services gross profit increased $88.9 million, or 31.5%, for the year ended December 28, 2019 compared to the prior year period. Technology and value-added services gross profit margin increased to 72.0% for the year ended December 28, 2019 from 69.0% for the comparable prior year period. Acquisitions accounted for $80.2 million of our gross profit increase within our technology and value-added services segment for the year ended December 28, 2019 compared to the prior year period and also accounted for the increase in the gross profit margin. The remaining increase of $8.7 million in our technology and value-added services segment gross profit was primarily attributable to growth in internally generated revenue. 55 Selling, General and Administrative Selling, general and administrative expenses by segment and in total for 2019 and 2018 were as follows (in thousands): % of % of Respective Respective Increase / (Decrease) 2019 Net Sales 2018 Net Sales $ % Health care distribution $ 2,128,595 22.7 % $ 2,137,779 23.7 % $ (9,184) (0.4) % Technology and value-added services 244,030 47.4 172,349 42.2 71,681 41.6 Total $ 2,372,625 23.8 $ 2,310,128 24.5 $ 62,497 2.7 Selling, general and administrative expenses (including restructuring costs in the years ended December 28, 2019 and December 29, 2018, and litigation settlements in the year ended December 29, 2018) increased $62.5 million, or 2.7%, to $2,372.6 million for the year ended December 28, 2019 from the comparable prior year period. The $9.2 million decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses within our health care distribution segment for the year ended December 28, 2019 as compared to the prior year period was attributable to a reduction of $73.7 million of operating costs (primarily due to $38.5 million of litigation settlement costs recorded in 2018 and a $39.7 million decrease in restructuring costs) partially offset by $64.5 million of additional costs from acquired companies. The $71.7 million increase in selling, general and administrative expenses within our technology and value-added services segment for the year ended December 28, 2019 as compared to the prior year period was attributable to $70.5 million of additional costs from acquired companies and $1.2 million of additional operating costs. As a percentage of net sales, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased to 23.8% from 24.5% for the comparable prior year period. As a component of total selling, general and administrative expenses, selling expenses increased $33.5 million, or 2.3%, to $1,461.6 million for the year ended December 28, 2019 from the comparable prior year period. As a percentage of net sales, selling expenses decreased to 14.7% from 15.1% for the comparable prior year period. As a component of total selling, general and administrative expenses, general and administrative expenses decreased $29.0 million, or 3.3%, to $911.0 million for the year ended December 28, 2019 from the comparable prior year period primarily due to $38.5 million of litigation settlement costs recorded in 2018 and a $39.7 million decrease in restructuring costs partially offset by increases in general and administrative expenses. As a percentage of net sales, general and administrative expenses decreased to 9.1% from 9.4% for the comparable prior year period. Other Expense, Net Other expense, net for the years ended 2019 and 2018 was as follows (in thousands): Variance 2019 2018 $ % Interest income $ 15,757 $ 15,491 $ 266 1.7 % Interest expense (50,792) (76,016) 25,224 33.2 Other, net (2,919) (3,258) 339 10.4 Other expense, net $ (37,954) $ (63,783) $ 25,829 40.5 Interest expense decreased $25.2 million primarily due to decreased borrowings under our bank credit lines. 56 Income Taxes For the year ended December 28, 2019, our effective tax rate was 23.4% compared to 20.0% for the prior year period. In 2019, our effective tax rate was primarily impacted by state and foreign income taxes and interest expense. In 2018, our effective tax rate was primarily impacted by a reduction in the estimate of our transition tax associated with the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, tax charges and credits associated with legal entity reorganizations outside the U.S., and state and foreign income taxes and interest expense. Within our consolidated balance sheets, transition tax of $9.9 million was included in “Accrued taxes” for 2019 and 2018, and $94.9 million and $104.2 million were included in “Other liabilities” for 2019 and 2018 respectively. Net Gain on Sale of Equity Investments On October 1, 2019, we sold an equity investment in Hu-Friedy, a manufacturer of dental instruments and infection prevention solutions. Our investment was non-controlling, we were not involved in running the business and had no representation on the board of directors. During the fourth quarter of 2019, we also sold certain other investments. In the aggregate, the sales of these investments resulted in a pre-tax gain of approximately $250.2 million and an after-tax gain of approximately $186.8 million. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our principal capital requirements have included funding of acquisitions, purchases of additional noncontrolling interests, repayments of debt principal, the funding of working capital needs, purchases of fixed assets and repurchases of common stock (which have been temporarily suspended). Working capital requirements generally result from increased sales, special inventory forward buy-in opportunities and payment terms for receivables and payables. Historically, sales have tended to be stronger during the third and fourth quarters and special inventory forward buy-in opportunities have been most prevalent just before the end of the year, and have caused our working capital requirements to be higher from the end of the third quarter to the end of the first quarter of the following year. The pandemic and the governmental responses to it had a material adverse effect on our cash flows in the second quarter of 2020. In the latter half of the second quarter and continuing through year-end, dental and medical practices began to re-open worldwide. However, patient volumes remain below pre-COVID-19 levels and certain regions in the U.S. and internationally are experiencing an increase in COVID-19 cases. As such, there is an ongoing risk that the COVID-19 pandemic may again have a material adverse effect on our cash flows in future periods and may result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and liquidity. However, the extent of the potential impact cannot be reasonably estimated at this time. As part of a broad-based effort to support plans for the long-term health of our business and to strengthen our financial flexibility, we implemented cost reduction measures that included certain reductions in payroll, substantially decreased capital expenditures, reduced corporate spending and the elimination of certain non- strategic targeted expenditures. As our markets have begun to recover, we ended most of those temporary expense- reduction initiatives during the second half of 2020. As the COVID-19 pandemic continues to unfold, we will continue to evaluate appropriate actions for the business. We finance our business primarily through cash generated from our operations, revolving credit facilities and debt placements. Our ability to generate sufficient cash flows from operations is dependent on the continued demand of our customers for our products and services, and access to products and services from our suppliers. Our business requires a substantial investment in working capital, which is susceptible to fluctuations during the year as a result of inventory purchase patterns and seasonal demands. Inventory purchase activity is a function of sales activity, special inventory forward buy-in opportunities and our desired level of inventory. We anticipate future increases in our working capital requirements. 57 We finance our business to provide adequate funding for at least 12 months. Funding requirements are based on forecasted profitability and working capital needs, which, on occasion, may change. Consequently, we may change our funding structure to reflect any new requirements. We believe that our cash and cash equivalents, our ability to access private debt markets and public equity markets, and our available funds under existing credit facilities provide us with sufficient liquidity to meet our currently foreseeable short-term and long-term capital needs. We have no off-balance sheet arrangements. On February 7, 2019, we completed the Animal Health Spin-off. On the Distribution Date we received a tax free distribution of $1,120 million from Covetrus, which has been used to pay down our debt, thereby generating additional debt capacity that can be used for general corporate purposes, including share repurchases and mergers and acquisitions. Net cash provided by operating activities was $593.5 million for the year ended December 26, 2020, compared to $820.5 million for the prior year. The net change of $227.0 million was primarily attributable to lower net income and lower distributions from equity affiliates, both resulting from the sale of our equity investment in Hu-Friedy in the fourth quarter of 2019, and increased working capital requirements, specifically an increase in inventories due to stocking of PPE and COVID-19 related products, and an increase in accounts receivable due to higher sales volume. These working capital increases were partially offset by greater growth in accounts payable and accrued expenses. Net cash used in investing activities was $115.0 million for the year ended December 26, 2020, compared to $422.3 million for the prior year. The net change of $307.3 million was primarily due to decreased payments for equity investments and business acquisitions, partially offset by decreased proceeds from sales of equity investments. Net cash used in financing activities was $181.8 million for the year ended December 26, 2020, compared to $363.4 million for the prior year. The net change of $181.6 million was primarily due to increased net proceeds from bank borrowings and lower repurchases of our common stock, partially offset by proceeds received during the prior year related to the Animal Health Spin-off. The following table summarizes selected measures of liquidity and capital resources (in thousands): December 26, December 28, 2020 2019 Cash and cash equivalents $ 421,185 $ 106,097 Working capital (1) 1,508,313 1,188,133 Debt: Bank credit lines $ 73,366 $ 23,975 Current maturities of long-term debt 109,836 109,849 Long-term debt 515,773 622,908 Total debt $ 698,975 $ 756,732 Leases: Current operating lease liabilities $ 64,716 $ 65,349 Non-current operating lease liabilities 238,727 176,267 (1) Includes $0.0 million and $127.0 million of accounts receivable which serve as security for U.S. trade accounts receivable securitization at December 26, 2020 and December 28, 2019, respectively. Our cash and cash equivalents consist of bank balances and investments in money market funds representing overnight investments with a high degree of liquidity. Accounts receivable days sales outstanding and inventory turnover Our accounts receivable days sales outstanding from operations increased to 46.0 days as of December 26, 2020 from 44.5 days as of December 28, 2019. During the years ended December 26, 2020 and December 28, 2019, we wrote off approximately $7.8 million and $5.9 million, respectively, of fully reserved accounts receivable against 58 our trade receivable reserve. Our inventory turnover from operations was 5.1 as of December 26, 2020 and 5.0 as of December 28, 2019. Our working capital accounts may be impacted by current and future economic conditions. Contractual obligations The following table summarizes our contractual obligations related to fixed and variable rate long-term debt and finance lease obligations, including interest (assuming a weighted average interest rate of 3.3%), as well as inventory purchase commitments and operating lease obligations as of December 26, 2020: Payments due by period (in thousands) < 1 year 2 - 3 years 4 - 5 years > 5 years Total Contractual obligations: Long-term debt, including interest $ 125,797 $ 43,994 $ 126,464 $ 435,219 $ 731,474 Inventory purchase commitments 208,200 110,800 - - 319,000 Operating lease obligations 71,801 98,719 55,046 110,228 335,794 Transition tax obligations 9,895 43,291 30,923 - 84,109 Finance lease obligations, including interest 2,503 2,138 632 920 6,193 Total $ 418,196 $ 298,942 $ 213,065 $ 546,367 $ 1,476,570 Bank Credit Lines Bank credit lines consisted of the following: December 26, December 28, 2020 2019 Revolving credit agreement $ - $ - Other short-term bank credit lines 73,366 23,975 Total $ 73,366 $ 23,975 Revolving Credit Agreement On April 18, 2017, we entered into a $750 million revolving credit agreement (the “Credit Agreement”), which matures in April 2022. The interest rate is based on the USD LIBOR plus a spread based on our leverage ratio at the end of each financial reporting quarter. We expect the LIBOR rate to be discontinued at some point during 2021, which will require an amendment to our debt agreements to reflect a new reference rate. We do not expect the discontinuation of LIBOR as a reference rate in our debt agreements to have a material adverse effect on our financial position or to materially affect our interest expense. The Credit Agreement also requires, among other things, that we maintain maximum leverage ratios. Additionally, the Credit Agreement contains customary representations, warranties and affirmative covenants as well as customary negative covenants, subject to negotiated exceptions on liens, indebtedness, significant corporate changes (including mergers), dispositions and certain restrictive agreements. As of December 26, 2020 and December 28, 2019, we had no borrowings on this revolving credit facility. As of December 26, 2020 and December 28, 2019, there were $9.5 million and $9.6 million of letters of credit, respectively, provided to third parties under the credit facility. On April 17, 2020, we amended the Credit Agreement to, among other things, (i) modify the financial covenant from being based on total leverage ratio to net leverage ratio, (ii) adjust the pricing grid to reflect the net leverage ratio calculation, and (iii) increase the maximum maintenance leverage ratio through March 31, 2021. 59 364-Day Credit Agreement On April 17, 2020, we entered into a new $700 million 364-day credit agreement, with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and U.S. Bank National Association as joint lead arrangers and joint bookrunners. This facility matures on April 16, 2021. As of December 26, 2020, we had no borrowings under this credit facility. We have the ability to borrow up to an additional $200 million, from the original facility amount of $700 million, under this credit facility on a revolving basis as needed, subject to the terms and conditions of the credit agreement. The interest rate for borrowings under this facility will fluctuate based on our net leverage ratio. At December 26, 2020, the interest rate on this facility was 2.50%. The proceeds from this facility can be used for working capital requirements and general corporate purposes, including, but not limited to, permitted refinancing of existing indebtedness. Under the terms of this agreement, we are prohibited from repurchasing our common stock until we report our financial results for the second quarter of 2021. Other Short-Term Credit Lines As of December 26, 2020 and December 28, 2019, we had various other short-term bank credit lines available, of which $73.4 million and $24.0 million, respectively, were outstanding. At December 26, 2020 and December 28, 2019, borrowings under all of these credit lines had a weighted average interest rate of 4.14% and 3.45%, respectively. Long-term debt Long-term debt consisted of the following: December 26, December 28, 2020 2019 Private placement facilities $ 613,498 $ 621,274 U.S. trade accounts receivable securitization - 100,000 Note payable due in 2025 with an interest rate of 3.1% at December 26, 2020 1,554 - Various collateralized and uncollateralized loans payable with interest, in varying installments through 2023 at interest rates ranging from 2.62% to 4.27% at December 26, 2020 and ranging from 2.56% to 10.5% at December 28, 2019 4,596 6,089 Finance lease obligations (see Note 7) 5,961 5,394 Total 625,609 732,757 Less current maturities (109,836) (109,849) Total long-term debt $ 515,773 $ 622,908 Private Placement Facilities Our private placement facilities, with three insurance companies, have a total facility amount of $1 billion, and are available on an uncommitted basis at fixed rate economic terms to be agreed upon at the time of issuance, from time to time through June 23, 2023. The facilities allow us to issue senior promissory notes to the lenders at a fixed rate based on an agreed upon spread over applicable treasury notes at the time of issuance. The term of each possible issuance will be selected by us and can range from five to 15 years (with an average life no longer than 12 years). The proceeds of any issuances under the facilities will be used for general corporate purposes, including working capital and capital expenditures, to refinance existing indebtedness and/or to fund potential acquisitions. On June 29, 2018, we amended and restated the above private placement facilities to, among other things, (i) permit the consummation of the Animal Health Spin-off and (ii) provide for the issuance of notes in Euros, British Pounds and Australian Dollars, in addition to U.S. Dollars. The agreements provide, among other things, that we maintain certain maximum leverage ratios, and contain restrictions relating to subsidiary indebtedness, liens, affiliate transactions, disposal of assets and certain changes in ownership. These facilities contain make-whole provisions in the event that we pay off the facilities prior to the applicable due dates. 60 On June 23, 2020, we amended the private placement facilities to, among other things, (i) temporarily modify the financial covenant from being based on total leverage ratio to net leverage ratio until March 31, 2021, (ii) increase the maximum maintenance leverage ratio through March 31, 2021, but with a 1.00% interest rate increase on the outstanding notes if the net leverage ratio exceeds 3.0x, which will remain in effect until we deliver financials for a four-quarter period ending on or after June 30, 2021 showing compliance with the total leverage ratio requirement, and (iii) make certain other changes conforming to the Credit Agreement, dated as of April 18, 2017, as amended. The components of our private placement facility borrowings as of December 26, 2020 are presented in the following table (in thousands): Amount of Date of Borrowing Borrowing Borrowing Outstanding Rate Due Date January 20, 2012 (1) $ 14,286 3.09 % January 20, 2022 January 20, 2012 50,000 3.45 January 20, 2024 December 24, 2012 50,000 3.00 December 24, 2024 June 2, 2014 100,000 3.19 June 2, 2021 June 16, 2017 100,000 3.42 June 16, 2027 September 15, 2017 100,000 3.52 September 15, 2029 January 2, 2018 100,000 3.32 January 2, 2028 September 2, 2020 (2) 100,000 2.35 September 2, 2030 Less: Deferred debt issuance costs (788) $ 613,498 (1) Annual repayments of approximately $7.1 million for this borrowing commenced on January 20, 2016. (2) On September 2, 2020, we refinanced our $100 million private placement borrowing at 3.79%, originally due on September 2, 2020, with a similar 10-year borrowing at 2.35% maturing on September 2, 2030. U.S. Trade Accounts Receivable Securitization We have a facility agreement with a bank, as agent, based on the securitization of our U.S. trade accounts receivable that is structured as an asset-backed securitization program with pricing committed for up to three years. Our current facility, which has a purchase limit of $350 million, was scheduled to expire on April 29, 2022. On June 22, 2020, the expiration date for this facility was extended to June 12, 2023 and was amended to adjust certain covenant levels for 2020. As of December 26, 2020 and December 28, 2019, the borrowings outstanding under this securitization facility were $0.0 million and $100 million, respectively. At December 26, 2020, the interest rate on borrowings under this facility was based on the asset-backed commercial paper rate of 0.22% plus 0.95%, for a combined rate of 1.17%. At December 28, 2019, the interest rate on borrowings under this facility was based on the asset-backed commercial paper rate of 1.90% plus 0.75%, for a combined rate of 2.65%. If our accounts receivable collection pattern changes due to customers either paying late or not making payments, our ability to borrow under this facility may be reduced. We are required to pay a commitment fee of 25 to 45 basis points depending upon program utilization. 61 Leases We have operating and finance leases for corporate offices, office space, distribution and other facilities, vehicles and certain equipment. Our leases have remaining terms of less than one year to 16 years, some of which may include options to extend the leases for up to 10 years. As of December 26, 2020, our right-of-use assets related to operating leases were $288.8 million and our current and non-current operating lease liabilities were $64.7 million and $238.7 million, respectively. Stock Repurchases From June 21, 2004 through December 26, 2020, we repurchased $3.6 billion, or 75,563,289 shares, under our common stock repurchase programs, with $201.2 million available as of December 26, 2020 for future common stock share repurchases. On October 30, 2019, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to an additional $400 million in shares of our common stock. As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, as previously announced, we have temporarily suspended our share repurchase program in an effort to preserve cash and exercise caution during this uncertain period and due to certain restrictions related to financial covenants in our credit facilities. Redeemable Noncontrolling interests Some minority stockholders in certain of our subsidiaries have the right, at certain times, to require us to acquire their ownership interest in those entities at fair value. Account Standards Codification (“ASC”) 480-10 is applicable for noncontrolling interests where we are or may be required to purchase all or a portion of the outstanding interest in a consolidated subsidiary from the noncontrolling interest holder under the terms of a put option contained in contractual agreements. The components of the change in the Redeemable noncontrolling interests for the years ended December 26, 2020, December 28, 2019 and December 29, 2018 are presented in the following table: December 26, December 28, December 29, 2020 2019 2018 Balance, beginning of period $ 287,258 $ 219,724 $ 465,585 Decrease in redeemable noncontrolling interests due to redemptions (17,241) (2,270) (287,767) Increase in redeemable noncontrolling interests due to business acquisitions 28,387 74,865 4,655 Net income attributable to redeemable noncontrolling interests 13,363 14,838 15,327 Dividends declared (12,631) (10,264) (8,206) Effect of foreign currency translation loss attributable to redeemable noncontrolling interests (4,279) (2,335) (11,330) Change in fair value of redeemable securities 32,842 (7,300) 41,460 Balance, end of period $ 327,699 $ 287,258 $ 219,724 Changes in the estimated redemption amounts of the noncontrolling interests subject to put options are adjusted at each reporting period with a corresponding adjustment to Additional paid-in capital. Future reductions in the carrying amounts are subject to a floor amount that is equal to the fair value of the redeemable noncontrolling interests at the time they were originally recorded. The recorded value of the redeemable noncontrolling interests cannot go below the floor level. These adjustments do not impact the calculation of earnings per share. Additionally, some prior owners of such acquired subsidiaries are eligible to receive additional purchase price cash consideration if certain financial targets are met. Any adjustments to these accrual amounts are recorded in our consolidated statement of income. For the years ended December 26, 2020 and December 28, 2019, there were no 62 material adjustments recorded in our consolidated statements of income relating to changes in estimated contingent purchase price liabilities. On July 1, 2018, we closed on a joint venture with Internet Brands, a provider of web presence and online marketing software, to create a newly formed entity, Henry Schein One, LLC. The joint venture includes Henry Schein Practice Solutions products and services, as well as Henry Schein’s international dental practice management systems and the dental businesses of Internet Brands. Internet Brands originally held a 26% noncontrolling interest in Henry Schein One, LLC that is accounted for within stockholders’ equity, as well as a freestanding and separately exercisable right to put its noncontrolling interest to Henry Schein, Inc. for fair value following the fifth anniversary of the effective date of the formation of the joint venture. Beginning with the second anniversary of the effective date of the formation of the joint venture, Henry Schein One began issuing a fixed number of additional interests to Internet Brands, which increased Internet Brands interest to 27% effective July 1, 2020. Henry Schein One will continue issuing additional interests to Internet Brands annually through the fifth anniversary, ultimately increasing Internet Brands’ ownership to approximately 33.6%. Internet Brands is also entitled to receive a fixed number of additional interests, in the aggregate up to approximately 1.6% of the joint venture’s ownership, if certain operating targets are met by the joint venture in its fourth, fifth and sixth operating years. These additional shares are considered contingent consideration that are accounted for within stockholders’ equity; however, these shares will not be allocated any net income of Henry Schein One until the shares vest or are earned by Internet Brands. A Monte Carlo simulation was utilized to value the additional contingent interests that are subject to operating targets. Key assumptions that were applied to derive the fair value of the contingent interests include an assumed equity value of Henry Schein One, LLC at its inception date, a risk-free interest rate based on U.S. treasury yields, an assumed future dividend yield, a risk-adjusted discount rate applied to projected future cash flows, an assumed equity volatility based on historical stock price returns of a group of guideline companies, and an estimated correlation of annual cash flow returns to equity returns. As a result of this transaction with Internet Brands, we recorded $567.6 million of noncontrolling interest within stockholders’ equity. Noncontrolling Interests Noncontrolling interests represent our less than 50% ownership interest in an acquired subsidiary. Our net income is reduced by the portion of the subsidiaries net income that is attributable to noncontrolling interests. Unrecognized tax benefits As more fully disclosed in Note 14 of “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” we cannot reasonably estimate the timing of future cash flows related to the unrecognized tax benefits, including accrued interest, of $84.0 million as of December 26, 2020. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. We base our estimates on historical data, when available, experience, industry and market trends, and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the combined results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. However, by their nature, estimates are subject to various assumptions and uncertainties. Reported results are therefore sensitive to any changes in our assumptions, judgments and estimates, including the possibility of obtaining materially different results if different assumptions were to be applied. Our financial results for the year ended December 26, 2020 were affected by certain estimates we made due to the adverse business environment brought on by the COVID-19 pandemic. During the year ended December 26, 2020, we recorded incremental bad debt reserves of approximately $10.0 million for our global dental business. Our stock compensation expense during the year ended December 26, 2020 was lower than in the years ended December 28, 2019 and December 29, 2018 due to our estimate that a lower amount of performance shares granted in 2018, 2019 or 2020 would ultimately vest as a result of the lower-than-normal earnings in 2020. Additionally, in the year ended December 26, 2020, we recorded total impairment charges on intangible assets of approximately $20.3 million. Although our selling, general and administrative expenses for the year ended December 26, 2020 63 represent management's best estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts, our judgment could change in the future due to the significant uncertainty surrounding the macroeconomic effect of the COVID-19 pandemic. Furthermore, during the year ended December 26, 2020, our gross profit margin was negatively affected by significant adjustments recorded for PPE inventory and COVID-19 related products reflecting changes in our estimates of net realizable value brought on by volatility of pricing and changes in demand experienced during the year. Such conditions may recur and adversely impact gross profit margins in future periods, although we do not expect material inventory adjustments to continue into 2021. We believe that the following critical accounting policies, which have been discussed with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors, affect the significant estimates and judgments used in the preparation of our financial statements: Revenue Recognition We generate revenue from the sale of dental and medical consumable products, equipment (health care distribution revenues), software products and services and other sources (technology and value-added services revenues). Provisions for discounts, rebates to customers, customer returns and other contra revenue adjustments are included in the transaction price at contract inception by estimating the most likely amount based upon historical data and estimates and are provided for in the period in which the related sales are recognized. Revenue derived from the sale of consumable products is recognized at a point in time when control transfers to the customer. Such sales typically entail high-volume, low-dollar orders shipped using third-party common carriers. We believe that the shipment date is the most appropriate point in time indicating control has transferred to the customer because we have no post-shipment obligations and this is when legal title and risks and rewards of ownership transfer to the customer and the point at which we have an enforceable right to payment. Revenue derived from the sale of equipment is recognized when control transfers to the customer. This occurs when the equipment is delivered. Such sales typically entail scheduled deliveries of large equipment primarily by equipment service technicians. Some equipment sales require minimal installation, which is typically completed at the time of delivery. Our product generally carries standard warranty terms provided by the manufacturer, however, in instances where we provide warranty labor services, the warranty costs are accrued in accordance with ASC 460 “Guarantees”. Revenue derived from the sale of software products is recognized when products are shipped to customers or made available electronically. Such software is generally installed by customers and does not require extensive training due to the nature of its design. Revenue derived from post-contract customer support for software, including annual support and/or training, is generally recognized over time using time elapsed as the input method that best depicts the transfer of control to the customer. Revenue derived from other sources, including freight charges, equipment repairs and financial services, is recognized when the related product revenue is recognized or when the services are provided. We apply the practical expedient to treat shipping and handling activities performed after the customer obtains control as fulfillment activities, rather than a separate performance obligation in the contract. Sales, value-add and other taxes we collect concurrent with revenue-producing activities are excluded from revenue. Certain of our revenue is derived from bundled arrangements that include multiple distinct performance obligations which are accounted for separately. When we sell software products together with related services (i.e., training and technical support), we allocate revenue to software using the residual method, using an estimate of the standalone selling price to estimate the fair value of the undelivered elements. There are no cases where revenue is deferred due to a lack of a standalone selling price. Bundled arrangements that include elements that are not considered software consist primarily of equipment and the related installation service. We allocate revenue for such arrangements based on the relative selling prices of the goods or services. If an observable selling price is not 64 available (i.e., we do not sell the goods or services separately), we use one of the following techniques to estimate the standalone selling price: adjusted market approach; cost-plus approach; or the residual method. There is no specific hierarchy for the use of these methods, but the estimated selling price reflects our best estimate of what the selling prices of each deliverable would be if it were sold regularly on a standalone basis taking into consideration the cost structure of our business, technical skill required, customer location and other market conditions. Accounts Receivable Accounts receivable are generally recognized when health care distribution and technology and value-added services revenues are recognized. In accordance with the “expected credit loss” model, the carrying amount of accounts receivable is reduced by a valuation allowance that reflects our best estimate of the amounts that will not be collected. In addition to reviewing delinquent accounts receivable, we consider many factors in estimating our reserve, including types of customers and their credit worthiness, experience and historical data adjusted for current conditions and reasonable supportable forecasts. Sales Returns Sales returns are recognized as a reduction of revenue by the amount of expected returns and are recorded as refund liability within current liabilities. We estimate the amount of revenue expected to be reversed to calculate the sales return liability based on historical data for specific products, adjusted as necessary for new products. The allowance for returns is presented gross as a refund liability and we record an inventory asset (and a corresponding adjustment to cost of sales) for any products that we expect to be returned. Inventories and Reserves Inventories consist primarily of finished goods and are valued at the lower of cost or market. Cost is determined by the first-in, first-out method for merchandise or actual cost for large equipment and high tech equipment. In accordance with our policy for inventory valuation, we consider many factors including the condition and salability of the inventory, historical sales, forecasted sales and market and economic trends. From time to time, we may adjust our assumptions for anticipated changes in any of these or other factors expected to affect the value of inventory. Although we believe our judgments, estimates and/or assumptions related to inventory and reserves are reasonable, making material changes to such judgments, estimates and/or assumptions could materially affect our financial results. Acquisitions We account for business acquisitions and combinations under the acquisition method of accounting, where the net assets of businesses purchased are recorded at their fair value at the acquisition date and our consolidated financial statements include their results of operations from that date. Any excess of acquisition consideration over the fair value of identifiable net assets acquired is recorded as goodwill. The major classes of assets and liabilities that we generally allocate purchase price to, excluding goodwill, include identifiable intangible assets (i.e., trademarks and trade names, customer relationships and lists, non-compete agreements and product development), property, plant and equipment, deferred taxes and other current and long-term assets and liabilities. The estimated fair value of identifiable intangible assets is based on critical estimates, judgments and assumptions derived from: analysis of market conditions; discount rates; discounted cash flows; customer retention rates; and estimated useful lives. Some prior owners of such acquired subsidiaries are eligible to receive additional purchase price cash consideration if certain financial targets are met. While we use our best estimates and assumptions to accurately value those assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date as well as contingent consideration, where applicable, our estimates are inherently uncertain and subject to refinement. As a result, during the measurement period we may record adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed with the corresponding offset to goodwill within our consolidated balance sheets. At the end of the measurement period or final determination of the values of such assets acquired or liabilities assumed, whichever comes first, any subsequent adjustments are recognized in our consolidated statements of operations. 65 Goodwill Goodwill is not amortized, but is subject to impairment analysis at least once annually, or if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. Such impairment analyses for goodwill require a comparison of the fair value to the carrying value of reporting units. We regard our reporting units to be our operating segments: global dental, global medical, and technology and value-added services. Goodwill was allocated to such reporting units, for the purposes of preparing our impairment analyses, based on a specific identification basis. Application of the goodwill impairment test requires judgment, including the identification of reporting units, assignment of assets and liabilities that are considered shared services to the reporting units, and ultimately the determination of the fair value of each reporting unit. The fair value of each reporting unit is calculated by applying the discounted cash flow methodology and confirming with a market approach. This analysis requires judgments, including estimation of detailed future cash flows based on budget expectations, and determination of comparable companies to develop a weighted average cost of capital for each reporting unit. The estimates used to calculate the fair value of a reporting unit change from year to year based on operating results, market conditions, and other factors. Changes in these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination of fair value and goodwill impairment for each reporting unit. Supplier Rebates Supplier rebates are included as a reduction of cost of sales and are recognized over the period they are earned. The factors we consider in estimating supplier rebate accruals include forecasted inventory purchases and sales in conjunction with supplier rebate contract terms which generally provide for increasing rebates based on either increased purchase or sales volume. Although we believe our judgments, estimates and/or assumptions related to supplier rebates are reasonable, making material changes to such judgments, estimates and/or assumptions could materially affect our financial results. Long-Lived Assets Long-lived assets, other than goodwill and other definite-lived intangibles, are evaluated for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable through the estimated undiscounted future cash flows to be derived from such assets. Definite-lived intangible assets primarily consist of non-compete agreements, trademarks, trade names, customer relationships and lists, and product development. For long-lived assets used in operations, impairment losses are only recorded if the asset’s carrying amount is not recoverable through its undiscounted, probability-weighted future cash flows. We measure the impairment loss based on the difference between the carrying amount and the estimated fair value. When an impairment exists, the related assets are written down to fair value. Although we believe our judgments, estimates and/or assumptions used in estimating cash flows and determining fair value are reasonable, making material changes to such judgments, estimates and/or assumptions could materially affect such impairment analyses and our financial results. During the year ended December 26, 2020, we recorded total impairment charges on intangible assets of approximately $20.3 million, nearly all of which was recorded in our technology and value-added services segment. Stock-Based Compensation Stock-based compensation represents the cost related to stock-based awards granted to employees and non- employee directors. We measure stock-based compensation at the grant date, based on the estimated fair value of the award, and recognize the cost (net of estimated forfeitures) as compensation expense on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period. Our stock-based compensation expense is reflected in selling, general and administrative expenses in our consolidated statements of income. Stock-based awards are provided to certain employees and non-employee directors under the terms of our 2020 Stock Incentive Plan (formerly known as the 2013 Stock Incentive Plan), and our 2015 Non-Employee Director 66 Stock Incentive Plan (together, the “Plans”). The Plans are administered by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. Equity-based awards are granted solely in the form of restricted stock units, with the exception of providing stock options to employees pursuant to certain pre-existing contractual obligations. Grants of restricted stock units are stock-based awards granted to recipients with specified vesting provisions. In the case of restricted stock units, common stock is generally delivered on or following satisfaction of vesting conditions. We issue restricted stock units that vest solely based on the recipient’s continued service over time (primarily four year cliff vesting, except for grants made under the 2015 Non-Employee Director Stock Incentive Plan, which are primarily 12 month cliff vesting) and restricted stock units that vest based on our achieving specified performance measurements and the recipient’s continued service over time (primarily three year cliff vesting). With respect to time-based restricted stock units, we estimate the fair value on the date of grant based on our closing stock price. With respect to performance-based restricted stock units, the number of shares that ultimately vest and are received by the recipient is based upon our performance as measured against specified targets over a specified period, as determined by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. Although there is no guarantee that performance targets will be achieved, we estimate the fair value of performance-based restricted stock units based on our closing stock price at time of grant. The Plans provide for adjustments to the performance-based restricted stock units targets for significant events, including, without limitation, acquisitions, divestitures, new business ventures, certain capital transactions (including share repurchases), restructuring costs, if any, certain litigation settlements or payments, if any, changes in tax rates in certain countries, changes in accounting principles or in applicable laws or regulations and foreign exchange fluctuations. Over the performance period, the number of shares of common stock that will ultimately vest and be issued and the related compensation expense is adjusted upward or downward based upon our estimation of achieving such performance targets. The ultimate number of shares delivered to recipients and the related compensation cost recognized as an expense will be based on our actual performance metrics as defined under the Plans. Although we believe our judgments, estimates and/or assumptions related to stock-based compensation are reasonable, making material changes to such judgments, estimates and/or assumptions could materially affect our financial results. Unrecognized Tax Benefits ASC Topic 740 prescribes the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in the financial statements in accordance with other provisions contained within this guidance. This topic prescribes a recognition threshold and a measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. For those benefits to be recognized, a tax position must be more likely than not to be sustained upon examination by the taxing authorities. The amount recognized is measured as the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate audit settlement. In the normal course of business, our tax returns are subject to examination by various taxing authorities. Such examinations may result in future tax and interest assessments by these taxing authorities for uncertain tax positions taken in respect of certain tax matters. Accounting Standards Update For a discussion of accounting standards updates that have been adopted or will be adopted in the future, please see included under Item 8. 67