********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

For an enterprise as large and complex as we are, a wide range of factors could materially affect future results and performance. The statements in this section describe the major risks to our business and should be considered carefully. In addition, these statements constitute our cautionary statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Financial Risks and Risks of Operation The current COVID-19 pandemic has materially and adversely impacted our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows. Since first reported in December 2019, the novel coronavirus that causes the COVID-19 disease has spread globally, including to every state in the United States. On March 11, 2020, the World Health Organization declared COVID-19 a pandemic, and on March 13, 2020, the United States declared a national emergency with respect to COVID-19.  The pandemic has significantly adversely impacted U.S. and global economic activity, resulting in a global recession, and has contributed to significant volatility in financial markets. The global impact of the outbreak has been rapidly evolving and, in the United States, certain states and cities, including most where we own hotels, have reacted by instituting various restrictive measures such as quarantines, restrictions on travel, "stay at home" rules, limitations on the size of gatherings, restrictions on types of business that may continue to operate, and/or restrictions on the types of construction projects that may continue. As a result, the COVID-19 pandemic is negatively impacting almost every industry directly or indirectly and is having an outsized impact on the U.S. lodging industry. Many of our hotels are operating at very low occupancy. For these reasons, the COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in a sharp decline in revenues at our hotels and significantly adversely affected the ability of our hotel managers to successfully operate our hotels and has had a significant adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, liquidity and cash flows due to, among other factors: In addition, quarantines, temporary closures of businesses, states of emergencies and other restrictive measures taken by governments and organizations may negatively impact the ability of our hotel managers to continue to obtain goods and services necessary for the operation of our hotels, obtain necessary personal protective equipment, provide adequate hotel staffing, provide customary levels of hotel services or operate the hotel in a way that facilitates social distancing, all of which may adversely affect the operation of our hotels. The reduced economic activity also may negatively impact future lodging demand even after the restrictive measures related to the COVID-19 pandemic are lifted as, historically, trends in economic indicators such as gross domestic product, business investment, corporate profits and employment growth (all of which have been negatively impacted) all have been key indicators of the relative strength of future lodging demand. The effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on the lodging industry are unprecedented and have materially adversely affected our operations.  The duration of the COVID-19 pandemic and its impact on our operations will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted with confidence, including the scope and severity of the pandemic, the timing of when vaccines become widely available, governmental actions taken to contain the pandemic or to mitigate its impact, and the direct and indirect economic effects of the pandemic and containment measures, among others. The rapid development and fluidity of the COVID-19 pandemic makes it extremely difficult to assess its full adverse economic impact on our business, financial condition, 16 results of operations, liquidity and cash flows. The effects of the COVID-19 pandemic also may have the effect of heightening our other risk factors disclosed in this section. Our revenues and the value of our hotels are subject to conditions affecting the lodging industry. The performance of the lodging industry traditionally has been affected by the strength of the general economy and, specifically, growth in gross domestic product. Because lodging industry demand typically follows the general economy, the lodging industry is highly cyclical, which contributes to potentially large fluctuations in our financial condition and our results of operations. Changes in travel patterns of both business and leisure travelers, particularly during periods of economic contraction or low levels of economic growth, may create difficulties for the industry over the long-term and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, the majority of our hotels are classified as luxury or upper upscale and generally target business and high-end leisure travelers. In periods of economic difficulties, business and leisure travelers may seek to reduce travel costs by limiting travel or seeking to reduce the cost of their trips. Consequently, our hotels may be more susceptible to a decrease in revenues during an economic downturn, as compared to hotels in other categories that have lower room rates.  Other circumstances affecting the lodging industry which may affect our performance and the forecasts we make include: We cannot assure you that adverse changes in the general economy or other circumstances that affect the lodging industry will not have an adverse effect on the hotel revenues or earnings at our hotels. A reduction in our revenues or earnings because of the above risks may reduce our working capital, impact our long-term business strategy and impact the value of our assets and our ability to meet certain covenants in our existing debt agreements. In addition, we may incur impairment expense in the future, which expense will affect negatively our results of operations. We can provide no assurance that any impairment expense recognized will not be material to our results of operations. 17 In addition to general economic conditions affecting the lodging industry, new hotel room supply is an important factor that can affect the lodging industry’s performance and overbuilding has the potential to further exacerbate the negative impact of an economic downturn.  Room rates and occupancy, and thus RevPAR, tend to increase when demand growth exceeds supply growth.  A reduction or slowdown in the growth of lodging demand or increased growth in lodging supply could result in returns that are substantially below expectations or result in losses which could materially and adversely affect our revenues and profitability as well as limit or slow our future growth. We depend on external sources of capital for future growth; therefore, any disruption to our ability to access capital at times, and on terms reasonably acceptable to us, may affect adversely our business and results of operations. Since we have elected REIT status, Host Inc. must finance its growth and fund debt repayments largely with external sources of capital because it is required to pay dividends to its stockholders in an amount equal to at least 90% of its taxable income (other than net capital gain) each year in order to qualify as a REIT.  In addition, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, we may be required to raise additional capital to fund losses and improve our liquidity position.  Our ability to access external capital could be hampered by several factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: As a result of COVID-19, some credit agencies have placed a “negative outlook” on our credit ratings.  If our credit ratings were to be downgraded, our access to capital and the cost of debt financing could be further negatively impacted, particularly if we were downgraded to below an investment grade rating.  The occurrence of any of the above factors, individually or in combination, could prevent us from being able to obtain the external capital we require on terms that are acceptable to us, or at all, which could have a material adverse effect on (i) our ability to finance our future growth and acquire hotels, (ii) our ability to meet our anticipated requirements for working capital, debt service and capital expenditures, and (iii) our results of operations and financial condition.  Potential consequences of disruptions in U.S. and global equity and credit markets could include the need to seek alternative sources of capital with less attractive terms, such as more restrictive covenants, shorter maturity and higher costs which would have an adverse effect on our financial condition and liquidity. We operate in a highly competitive industry. The lodging industry is highly competitive. Our principal competitors are other owners and investors in upper upscale and luxury full-service hotels, including other lodging REITs. Our hotels face strong competition for individual guests, group reservations and conference business from major hospitality chains with well-established and recognized brands, as well as from other smaller hotel chains, independent and local hotel owners and operators. Our hotels compete for customers primarily based on brand name recognition and reputation, as well as location, room rates, property size and availability of rooms and conference space, quality of the accommodations, customer satisfaction, amenities and the ability to earn and redeem loyalty program points. During the COVID-19 pandemic, our hotels also compete for customers based on cleanliness protocols adopted in response to the pandemic.  New hotels may be constructed and these additions to supply create new competitors, in some cases without corresponding increases in demand for hotel rooms. Our competitors may have similar or greater commercial and financial resources which allow them to improve their hotels in ways that affect our ability to compete for guests effectively and adversely affect our revenues and profitability as well as limit or slow our future growth.  We also compete for hotel acquisitions with others that have similar investment objectives to ours. This competition could limit the number of investment opportunities that we find suitable for our business. It also may increase the bargaining power of hotel owners seeking to sell to us, making it more difficult for us to acquire new hotels on attractive terms or on the terms contemplated in our business plan. The growth of internet reservation channels also is a source of competition that could adversely affect our business. A significant percentage of hotel rooms for individual or “transient” customers are booked through internet travel intermediaries. Search engines and peer-to-peer inventory sources also provide online travel services that compete with our hotels. If bookings shift to higher 18 cost distribution channels, including these internet travel intermediaries, it could materially impact our revenues and profitability. Additionally, as intermediary bookings increase, they may be able to obtain higher commissions, reduced room rates or other significant contract concessions from the brands and hotel management companies managing and operating our hotels. Also, although internet travel intermediaries traditionally have competed to attract transient business rather than group and convention business, in recent years they have expanded their business to include marketing to large group and convention business. If that expansion continues, it could both divert group and convention business away from our hotels and increase our cost of sales for group and convention business and materially adversely affect our revenues and profitability. There are inherent risks with investments in real estate, including their relative illiquidity. Investments in real estate are inherently illiquid and generally cannot be sold quickly. For this reason, we cannot predict whether we will be able to sell any hotel that we desire to sell for the price or on terms acceptable to us, or the length of time needed to find a willing purchaser and to close on the sale of a hotel. Therefore, we may not be able to vary the composition of our portfolio promptly in response to changing economic, financial and investment conditions and dispose of hotels at opportune times or on favorable terms, which may adversely affect our cash flows and our ability to pay dividends to stockholders.  In addition, real estate ownership is subject to various risks, including: We have significant indebtedness and may incur additional indebtedness. As of December 31, 2020, we and our subsidiaries had total indebtedness of approximately $5.5 billion.  We have significantly increased our indebtedness in the past year and have substantially utilized the full $1.5 billion available under the revolver portion of our credit facility in order to increase our cash position and to preserve financial flexibility in light of the impact resulting from COVID-19. Our indebtedness requires us to commit a significant portion of our annual cash flow from operations to debt service payments, which reduces the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, expansion efforts, dividends and distributions and other general corporate needs. Additionally, our substantial indebtedness could: If our cash flow and working capital are not sufficient to fund our expenditures or service our indebtedness, we will be required to raise additional funds through sales of common or preferred OP units of Host L.P. or common or preferred stock of Host Inc., the incurrence of additional permitted indebtedness by Host L.P. (which is currently unavailable to us due to limits placed on incurring additional debt under our senior notes) or sales of our assets. We cannot make any assurances that any of these sources of funds will be available to us or, if available, will be on terms that we would find acceptable or in amounts sufficient to meet our obligations or fulfill our business plan. 19 The terms of our indebtedness place restrictions on us and on our subsidiaries and these restrictions reduce our operational flexibility and create default risks. We are, and may in the future become, party to agreements and instruments that place restrictions on us and on our subsidiaries.  For instance, the covenants in the documents governing the terms of our senior notes and our credit facility restrict, among other things, our ability to: In addition, certain covenants in our credit facility also require us and our subsidiaries to meet financial metrics which are currently waived due to the pandemic but which we would not otherwise satisfy.  The restrictive covenants in our senior notes and credit facility reduce our flexibility in conducting our operations and limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interest. Failure to comply with these restrictive covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all or a substantial portion of our indebtedness.  For a detailed description of the covenants and restrictions imposed by the documents governing our indebtedness and the terms of our current waiver under the credit facility, see Part II Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Financial Condition.” Our expenses may not decrease if our revenues decrease. Many of the expenses associated with owning and operating hotels, such as debt-service payments, property taxes, insurance, utilities, and employee wages and benefits, are relatively inflexible. They do not necessarily decrease directly with a reduction in revenues at the hotels and may be subject to increases that are not tied to the performance of our hotels or the increase in the rate of inflation generally.  Additionally, certain costs, such as wages, benefits and insurance, may exceed the rate of inflation in any given period. In the event of a significant decrease in demand, our hotel managers may not be able to reduce the size of hotel work forces in order to decrease wages and benefits. Our managers also may be unable to offset any fixed or increased expenses with higher room rates. Any of our efforts to reduce operating costs also could adversely affect the future growth of our business and the value of our hotels. Our acquisition of hotels may have a significant effect on our business, liquidity, financial position and/or results of operations. We routinely are actively engaged in the process of identifying, analyzing and negotiating possible transactions for acquiring hotels. We cannot provide any assurances that we will be successful in consummating future acquisitions on favorable terms or that we will realize the benefits that we anticipate from such acquisitions. Our failure to realize the intended benefits from one or more acquisitions could have a significant adverse effect on our business, liquidity, financial position and/or results of operations. These adverse effects may occur because the performance of the hotel does not support the additional indebtedness and related interest expense that we incurred as a result of the acquisition. In addition, hotels and entities that we have acquired, or may in the future acquire, may be subject to unknown or contingent liabilities for which we may have no recourse, or only limited recourse, against the sellers.  In general, the representations and warranties provided in the transaction agreements may not survive long enough for us to become aware of such liabilities and to seek recourse against our sellers and indemnification covering representations and warranties often is limited and subject to various materiality thresholds, a significant deductible or an aggregate cap on losses. As a result, there is no guarantee that we will recover any amounts with respect to losses due to breaches by the sellers of their representations and warranties. We may not achieve the value we anticipate from new hotel developments or value enhancement projects at our existing hotels. We currently are, and in the future may be, involved in the development or redevelopment of hotels, timeshare units or other alternate uses of portions of our existing hotels, including the development of retail, office or apartments, and including through joint ventures. There are risks inherent in any new development, including: 20 Any of the above factors could affect adversely our ability to complete the developments on schedule and consistent with the scope that currently is contemplated, or to achieve the intended value of these projects We do not control our hotel operations and we are dependent on the managers of our hotels. To maintain our status as a REIT, we are not permitted to operate or manage any of our hotels. As a result, we, through our taxable REIT subsidiaries, have entered into management agreements with third-party managers to operate our hotels. For this reason, we are unable to directly implement strategic business decisions with respect to the daily operation and marketing of our hotels, such as decisions with respect to the setting of room rates, food and beverage pricing and certain similar matters. Although we consult with our hotel operators with respect to strategic business plans, the hotel operators are under no obligation to implement any of our recommendations with respect to these matters. While we monitor the hotel managers’ performance, we have limited recourse under our management agreements if we believe that the hotel managers are not performing adequately. The cash flow from our hotels may be affected adversely if our managers fail to provide quality services and amenities or if they or their affiliates fail to maintain a quality brand name.  Because our management agreements are long-term in nature, we also may not be able to terminate these agreements if we believe the manager is not performing adequately. From time to time, we have had, and continue to have, disputes with the managers of our hotels over their performance and compliance with the terms of our management agreements.  If we are unable to reach satisfactory results through discussions and negotiations, we may choose to litigate the dispute or submit the matter to third-party dispute resolution. Failure by our hotel managers to fully perform the duties agreed to in our management agreements or the failure of our managers to adequately manage the risks associated with hotel operations could affect adversely our results of operations. In addition, our hotel managers or their affiliates manage, and in some cases own, have invested in, or provided credit support or operating guarantees, to hotels that compete with our hotels, all of which may result in conflicts of interest. As a result, our hotel managers have in the past made, and may in the future make, decisions regarding competing lodging facilities that are not or would not be in our best interest. Furthermore, our management agreements for our brand managed properties generally have provisions that can restrict our ability to sell, lease or otherwise transfer our hotels, unless the transferee is not a competitor of the manager and the transferee assumes the related management agreements and meets other specified conditions. Our ability to finance or sell our hotels, depending upon the structure of the transactions, may require the manager’s consent. Similarly, decisions with respect to the repositioning of a hotel, such as the outsourcing of food and beverage outlets, also may require the manager’s consent. The properties managed by Marriott International account for most of our revenues and operating income. Adverse developments in Marriott’s business and affairs or financial condition could have a material adverse effect on us. Approximately 70% of our hotels (as measured by 2020 revenues) are managed or franchised by Marriott International. We rely on Marriott’s personnel, expertise, technical resources and information systems, proprietary information, good faith and judgment to manage and maintain our hotel operations efficiently, effectively, profitably and in compliance with the terms, responsibilities and duties of our management agreements and all applicable laws and regulations. Any adverse developments in Marriott’s business and affairs or financial condition could impair its ability to manage our hotels and could have a material adverse effect on us. We are subject to risks associated with the employment of hotel personnel, particularly with hotels that employ unionized labor. Our third-party managers are responsible for hiring, maintaining and managing the labor force at each of our hotels. We do not directly employ or manage employees at our consolidated hotels (other than employing, but not managing, directing or supervising, the employees at our three hotels in Brazil). However, we remain subject to many of the costs and risks generally associated with the hotel labor force, particularly at those hotels with unionized labor. From time to time, hotel operations may be disrupted because of strikes, lockouts, public demonstrations or other negative actions and publicity. We also may incur increased legal costs and indirect labor costs because of disputes involving our third-party managers and their labor force. The resolution of labor disputes or re-negotiated labor contracts could lead to increased labor costs, a significant component of our hotel operating costs, either by increases 21 in wages or benefits or by changes in work rules that raise hotel operating costs. As we are not the employer nor bound by any collective bargaining agreement, we do not negotiate with any labor organization, and it is the responsibility of each hotel’s manager to enter into such labor contracts. Our ability, if any, to have any meaningful impact on the outcome of these negotiations is restricted by and dependent on the individual management agreement covering a specific hotel and we may have little or no ability to control the outcome of these negotiations. Our hotels have an ongoing need for renovations and potentially significant capital expenditures in order to remain competitive in the marketplace, to maintain brand standards or to comply with applicable laws or regulations. The timing and costs of such renovations or improvements may result in reduced operating performance during construction and may not improve the return on these investments. We will need to make capital expenditures in order to remain competitive with other hotels, to maintain the economic value of our hotels and to comply with applicable laws and regulations. We also are required by our hotel management agreements to make agreed upon capital expenditures to our hotels. In addition, the timing of these improvements can affect hotel performance, particularly if the improvements require closure of a significant number of rooms or other features of the hotels, such as ballrooms, meeting space and restaurants. These capital improvements reduce the availability of cash for other purposes and are subject to cost overruns and delays. In addition, because we depend on external sources of capital, we may not have the necessary funds to invest and, if we fail to maintain our hotels in accordance with brand standards set by our managers, they may terminate the management agreement. Moreover, we may not necessarily realize a significant, or any, improvement in the performance of the hotels at which we make these investments. A large proportion of our hotels are located in a limited number of large urban cities and, accordingly, we could be disproportionately harmed by adverse changes to these markets, a natural disaster or the threat of a terrorist attack. Hotels in the following cities and markets represented approximately 67% of our 2020 revenues: New York, Washington, D.C., San Diego, San Francisco, Boston, Florida, Hawaii, Atlanta, and Los Angeles. An economic downturn, an increase in hotel supply in these cities and markets, a natural disaster, a terrorist attack or similar disaster in any one of these cities and markets likely would cause a decline in hotel demand and adversely affect occupancy rates, the financial performance of our hotels in these cities and markets and our overall results of operations. For example, during the COVID-19 pandemic, large urban markets with enhanced restrictions on social gatherings have been disproportionately impacted by the decline in lodging demand. Additionally, in September 2017, our operations in Florida and Houston were impacted negatively by Hurricanes Irma and Harvey. The threat of terrorism also may negatively impact hotel occupancy and average daily rate, due to resulting disruptions in business and leisure travel patterns and concerns about travel safety. Hotels in major metropolitan areas, such as the major cities that represent our largest markets, may be particularly adversely affected due to concerns about travel safety. We may acquire or develop hotels in joint ventures with third parties that could result in conflicts. We have made investments in joint ventures and are exploring further investment or development opportunities. We may, from time to time, invest as a co-venturer in other entities owning hotels instead of purchasing them directly. We also may sell interests in existing hotels to a third-party as part of forming a joint venture with the third-party. Investments in joint ventures may involve risks not present were a third-party not involved, including the possibility that partners or co-venturers might become bankrupt or fail to fund their share of required capital contributions. Co-venturers often share control over the operations of a joint venture. Actions by a co-venturer also could subject the hotels to additional risks because our co-venturer might have economic or business interests or goals that are inconsistent with our interests or goals.  Disputes between us and our partners or co-venturers may result in litigation that would increase our expenses and may negatively impact hotel operations. Some potential losses are not covered by insurance. We carry comprehensive insurance coverage for general liability, property, business interruption, cyber threats, terrorism and other risks with respect to all our hotels and other properties. In a limited number of instances, and certain coverages related to hotel managers’ employer status, properties instead may be insured under the hotel manager’s policies. As of February 2021, all consolidated hotels currently are covered under the company’s property insurance. These policies offer coverage features and insured limits that we believe are customary for similar types of properties. Generally, our “all-risk” property policies provide coverage that is available on a per-occurrence basis and that, for each occurrence, has an overall limit, as well as various sub-limits, on the amount of insurance proceeds we can receive. Sub-limits exist for certain types of claims, such as service interruption, debris removal, expediting costs, landscaping replacement and natural disasters such as earthquakes, floods and hurricanes, and may be subject to annual aggregate coverage limits. The dollar amounts of these sub-limits are significantly lower than the dollar amounts of the overall coverage limit. In this regard, hotels in certain of our markets, including California, Florida, Hawaii, Houston, New Orleans and 22 Seattle, have in the past been and continue to be particularly susceptible to damage from natural disasters and the applicable sub-limits are significantly lower than the total value of the hotels we own in states where natural disasters are possible. Recovery under the applicable policies also is subject to substantial deductibles and complex calculations of lost business income. There is no assurance that this insurance, where maintained, will fully fund the re-building or restoration of a hotel that is impacted by an earthquake, hurricane, or other natural disaster, or a terrorism event, or will fully fund t he income lost as a result of the damage. Our property insurance policies also provide that all of the claims from each of our properties resulting from a particular insurable event must be combined for purposes of evaluating whether the aggregate limits and sub-limits provided in our policies have been exceeded and, in the case where the manager of one of our hotels provides this coverage, any such claims will be combined with the claims of other owners participating in the manager’s program for the same purpose. Therefore, if an insurable event occurs that affects more than one of our hotels, the claims from each affected hotel will be added together to determine whether the aggregate limit or sub-limits, depending on the type of claim, have been reached. Each affected hotel only may receive a proportional share of the amount of insurance proceeds provided for under the policy if the total value of the loss exceeds the aggregate limits available. For example, if a hurricane were to cause widespread damage to Florida or up the East Coast, claims from each of our hotels would be aggregated against the policy limit or sub-limit and likely would exceed the applicable limit or sub-limit. We may incur losses in excess of insured limits, and we may be even less likely to receive complete coverage for risks that affect multiple properties, such as earthquakes, hurricanes, or certain types of terrorism. In addition, there are other risks relating to property insurance, such as certain environmental hazards, that may be deemed to fall completely outside the general coverage limits of our policies or may be uninsurable or too expensive to justify coverage. Also, insurance coverage for war, infectious disease, and nuclear, biological, chemical and radiological perils is extremely limited.  We also may encounter challenges with an insurance provider regarding whether it will pay a particular claim that we believe to be covered under our policy. Should a loss in excess of insured limits or an uninsured loss occur, or should we be unsuccessful in obtaining coverage from an insurance carrier, we could lose all or a part of the capital we have invested in a hotel, as well as its anticipated future revenues. Cyber threats and the risk of data breaches or disruptions of our managers’ or our own information technology systems could materially adversely affect our business. Our third-party hotel managers are dependent on information technology networks and systems, including the internet, to access, process, transmit and store proprietary and customer information. These complex networks include reservation systems, vacation exchange systems, hotel management systems, customer databases, call centers, administrative systems, and third-party vendor systems. These systems require the collection and retention of large volumes of personally identifiable information of hotel guests, including credit card numbers and passport numbers. Our hotel managers may store and process such proprietary and customer information both on systems located at the hotels that we own and other hotels that they operate and manage, their corporate locations and at third-party owned facilities, including, for example, in a third-party hosted cloud environment. These information networks and systems have been and continue to be vulnerable to threats such as system, network or internet failures; computer hacking or business disruption; cyber-terrorism; viruses, worms or other malicious software programs; and employee error, negligence or fraud. These threats can be introduced in any number of ways, including through third parties accessing our hotel managers’ information networks and systems. The risks from these cyber threats are significant and, Marriott International, the manager of a majority of our hotels, experienced a material data security breach involving the unauthorized access to the Starwood guest reservation database between 2014 and 2018.  As of this date, Marriott has been named as a defendant in various lawsuits and investigations arising out of the database breach and no assurances can be made as to the outcome of these lawsuits or investigations. We rely on the security systems of our managers to protect proprietary and hotel customer information from these threats. Any compromise of our managers’ networks could result in a disruption to our managers’ operations, such as the disruption in fulfilling guest reservations, delayed bookings or sales, or lost guest reservations. Any of these events could, in turn, result in disruption of the operations of the hotels that we own that are managed by them, in increased costs and in potential litigation and liability. All our major hotel management companies and a majority of our third-party operators maintain insurance against cyber threats. However, these policies provide varying limits and may be subject to sub-limits for certain types of claims, and it is not expected that these policies will provide a total recovery of all potential losses. In addition, public disclosure, or loss of customer or proprietary information, such as disclosed by Marriott in November 2018, may result in damage to the manager’s reputation and a loss of confidence among hotel guests and result in reputational harm for the hotels owned by us and managed by them, which may have a material adverse effect on our future business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition to the information technologies and systems of our managers used to operate our hotels, we have our own corporate technologies and systems that are used to access, store, transmit, and manage or support a variety of our business processes. There can be no assurance that the security measures we have taken to protect the contents of these systems will prevent failures, inadequacies or interruptions in system services or that system security will not be breached through physical or electronic break-ins, computer viruses, and attacks by hackers. Disruptions in service, system shutdowns and security breaches in the information technologies and 23 systems we use, including unauthorized disclosure of confidential information, could have a material adverse effect on our business, our financial reporting and compliance, and subject us to liability claims or regulatory penalties, which amounts could be significant.  We currently maintain cyber insurance, which includes coverage for third-party liability (damages and settlements to third parties) and first-party loss (costs incurred by us in response to a network security or privacy event). However, as with our operator’s coverage, our policy is subject to limits and sub-limits for certain types of claims and we do not expect that this policy will cover all the losses that we could experience from these exposures. Applicable REIT laws may restrict certain business activities. As a REIT, each of Host Inc. and its subsidiary REIT is subject to various restrictions on the types of revenues it can earn, assets it can own and activities in which it can engage. Business activities that could be restricted by applicable REIT laws include, but are not limited to, developing alternative uses of real estate and the ownership of hotels that are not leased to a taxable REIT subsidiary (“TRS”), including the development and/or sale of timeshare or condominium units or the related land parcels. Due to these restrictions, we anticipate that we will continue to conduct certain business activities, including, but not limited to, those mentioned above, in one or more of our TRS. Our TRS are taxable as regular C corporations and are subject to federal, state, local, and, if applicable, foreign taxation on their taxable income. We face possible risks associated with natural disasters and the physical effects of climate change. We are subject to the risks associated with natural disasters and the physical effects of climate change, which can include more frequent or severe storms, droughts, hurricanes and flooding, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our hotels, operations and business. Over time, our coastal markets are expected to experience increases in storm intensity and rising sea levels causing damage to our hotels. As a result, we could become subject to significant losses and/or repair costs that may or may not be fully covered by insurance. Other markets may experience prolonged variations in temperature or precipitation that may limit access to the water needed to operate our hotels or significantly increase energy costs, which may subject those hotels to additional regulatory burdens, such as limitations on water usage or stricter energy efficiency standards.  Climate change also may affect our business by increasing the cost of (or making unavailable) property insurance on terms we find acceptable in areas most vulnerable to such events, increasing operating costs at our hotels, such as the cost of water or energy, and requiring us to expend funds as we seek to repair and protect our hotels against such risks. There can be no assurance that climate change will not have a material adverse effect on our hotels, operations or business. Risks of Ownership of Host Inc.’s Common Stock There are limitations on the acquisition of Host Inc. common stock and changes in control. Host Inc.’s charter and by-laws, the partnership agreement of Host L.P., and the Maryland General Corporation Law (the “MGCL”) contain a number of provisions, the exercise or existence of which could delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for Host Inc.’s stockholders or Host L.P.’s unitholders, including the following: 24 Host Inc. is subject to the Maryland business combination statute. Our bylaws contain a provision exempting us from the control share provisions of the MGCL. There can be no assurance that this bylaw provision exempting us from the control share provisions will not be amended or eliminated at any time in the future. Federal Income Tax Risks Adverse tax consequences would occur if Host Inc. or its subsidiary REIT fails to qualify as a REIT. We believe that Host Inc. has been organized and has operated in such a manner as to qualify as a REIT under the Code, commencing with its taxable year beginning January 1, 1999, and Host Inc. currently intends to continue to operate and qualify as a REIT during future years. In addition, Host Inc. owns, through Host L.P., one entity that also has elected to be treated as a REIT. As the requirements for qualification and taxation as a REIT are extremely complex and interpretations of the federal income tax laws governing qualification and taxation as a REIT are limited, no assurance can be provided that Host Inc. currently qualifies as a REIT or will continue to qualify as a REIT or that Host Inc.’s subsidiary REIT qualifies as a REIT or will continue to qualify as a REIT. If our subsidiary REIT were to fail to qualify as a REIT, it is possible that Host Inc. would fail to qualify as a REIT unless it (or the subsidiary REIT) could avail itself of certain relief provisions. If Host Inc. or its subsidiary REIT were to fail to qualify as a REIT, and any available relief provisions did not apply, the non-qualifying REIT would not be allowed to take a deduction for dividends paid to its stockholders in computing its taxable income, and it would be subject to federal and state corporate income tax on its taxable income. Any such corporate income tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the non-qualifying REIT’s cash available for, among other things, operations and dividends to its stockholders. In addition, if Host Inc. were to fail to qualify as a REIT, it would not be required to pay dividends to its stockholders. Moreover, unless entitled to statutory relief, the non-qualifying REIT could not qualify as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which REIT qualification was lost. To qualify as a REIT, Host Inc. is required to satisfy the requirements of several asset and gross income tests. Our ability to satisfy the asset tests depends upon our analysis of the characterization and fair market values of our assets, some of which assets are not susceptible to a precise determination of fair market value, and for which we will not obtain independent appraisals. Our compliance with the REIT asset and gross income tests requirements also depends upon our ability to successfully manage the composition of our gross income and assets on an ongoing basis. Accordingly, there can be no assurance that the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) will not contend that our hotel leases, interests in subsidiaries, or interests in the securities of other issuers will not cause a violation of the REIT gross income and asset tests requirements. Any determination that Host Inc. or its subsidiary REIT does not qualify as a REIT will have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and could reduce materially the value of Host Inc.’s common stock. The additional corporate income tax liability 25 of Host Inc. or the subsidiary REIT for the year, or years, in which it does not qualify as a REIT would reduce its cash flow available for investment, debt service or dividends to stockholders. Furthermore, the entity not qualifying as a REIT no longer would be required to pay dividends to its stockholders as a condition to REIT qualification, and any dividends paid to stockholders would be taxable as ordinary C corporation dividends to the extent of its current and accumulated earnings and profits. This means that, if Host Inc. were to fail to qualify as a REIT, Host Inc.’s stockholders currently taxed as individuals would be taxed on dividends at capital gain tax rates and Host Inc.’s corporate stockholders generally would be entitled to the dividends received deduction with respect to such dividends, subject in each case to applicable limitations under the Code. Host Inc.’s failure to qualify as a REIT also would cause an event of default under Host L.P.’s credit facility, which default could lead to an acceleration of the amounts due thereunder, which, in turn, would constitute an event of default under Host L.P.’s outstanding debt securities. If our hotel managers do not qualify as “eligible independent contractors,” or if our hotels are not “qualified lodging facilities,” each of Host Inc. and our subsidiary REIT will fail to qualify as a REIT. Each hotel with respect to which our TRS pays rent must be a “qualified lodging facility.” A “qualified lodging facility” is a hotel, motel, or other establishment more than one-half of the dwelling units in which are used on a transient basis, including customary amenities and facilities, provided that no wagering activities are conducted at or in connection with such facility by any person who is engaged in the business of accepting wagers and who legally is authorized to engage in such business at or in connection with such facility. We believe that all the hotels leased to our TRS are qualified lodging facilities. However, the REIT provisions of the Code provide only limited guidance for making determinations of whether a hotel is considered a qualified lodging facility, and there can be no assurance that our hotels will be so considered in all cases. If our hotel managers do not qualify as “eligible independent contractors,” Host Inc. and our subsidiary REIT likely will fail to qualify as a REIT for federal income tax purposes. Each of the hotel management companies that enters into a management contract with our TRS must qualify as an “eligible independent contractor” under the REIT rules in order for the rent paid to Host Inc. and its subsidiary REIT by our TRS to be qualifying gross income for the REIT gross income tests requirements. Among other requirements, in order to qualify as an eligible independent contractor, a hotel manager cannot own more than 35% of our outstanding shares (by value) and no person or group of persons can own more than 35% of our outstanding shares and the ownership interests of the hotel manager, taking into account only owners of more than 5% of our shares and, with respect to ownership interests in such hotel managers that are publicly traded, only owners of more than 5% of such ownership interests. Complex ownership attribution rules apply for purposes of these 35% ownership thresholds. Although we monitor ownership of our shares by our hotel managers and their owners, and certain provisions of our charter are designed to prevent ownership of our shares in violation of these rules, there can be no assurance that these ownership limits will not be exceeded. The size of our TRS is limited and our transactions with our TRS will cause us to be subject to a 100% excise tax on certain income or deductions if such transactions are not conducted on arm’s-length terms. A REIT may own up to 100% of the equity interests of an entity that is a C corporation for federal income tax purposes if the entity is a TRS. A TRS may own assets and earn gross income that would not be considered as qualifying assets or as qualifying gross income if owned or earned directly by a REIT, including revenues from hotel operations. Both the REIT and its C corporation subsidiary must jointly elect to treat such C corporation subsidiary as a TRS. A C corporation of which a TRS directly or indirectly owns more than 35% of the voting power or value of its stock or securities automatically will be treated as a TRS. For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017, no more than 20% (25% for taxable years beginning after July 30, 2008 and on or before December 31, 2017) of the total value of a REIT’s assets may consist of stock or securities of one or more TRS. Our TRS will pay federal corporate income tax and applicable state and local corporate income tax and, if applicable, foreign corporate income tax on its taxable income. The after-tax net income of our TRS will be available for distribution to us as a taxable dividend to the extent of its accumulated earnings and profits, but it is not required to be so distributed. We believe that the aggregate value of the stock and securities of our TRS has been and will continue to be less than 20% (25% for taxable years beginning after July 30, 2008 and on or before December 31, 2017) of the total value of our assets (including our TRS stock and securities). Furthermore, we monitor the value of our investments in our TRS for the purpose of ensuring compliance with this 20% requirement. There can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to comply with the 20% (25% for taxable years beginning after July 30, 2008 and on or before December 31, 2017) value limitation discussed above. Rent paid to Host Inc. and its subsidiary REIT by our TRS cannot be based on its net income or profits for such rents to qualify as “rents from real property.” We receive “percentage rent” from our TRS that is calculated based on the gross revenues of the hotels subject to leases - not based on net income or profits of such hotels. If the IRS determines that the rent paid pursuant to our leases with our TRS are excessive, the deductibility thereof by the TRS may be challenged, and we could be subject to a 100% excise tax on “re-determined rent” or “re-determined deductions” to the extent that such rent exceeds an arm’s-length amount. We believe that our rent 26 and other transactions between our REITs and their TRS are based on arm’s-length amounts and reflect normal business practices, but there can be no assurance that the IRS will agree with our belief. Despite the REIT status of each of Host Inc. and its subsidiary REIT, we remain subject to various taxes. Notwithstanding Host Inc.’s status as a REIT, Host Inc. and certain of its subsidiaries (including our subsidiary REIT) are subject to federal, state, local and foreign corporate taxes on their net income, gross receipts, net worth, and property, in certain cases. Host L.P. is obligated under its partnership agreement to pay all such taxes (and any related interest and penalties) incurred by Host Inc. Legislative or other actions affecting REITs could have a negative effect on us. New legislation, treasury regulations, administrative interpretations or court decisions could change significantly the tax laws with respect to an entity’s qualification as a REIT or the federal income tax consequences of its REIT qualification. If Host Inc. or its subsidiary REIT were to fail to qualify as a REIT, and any available relief provisions did not apply, the non-qualifying REIT would not be allowed to take a deduction for dividends paid to its stockholders in computing its taxable income, and it would be subject to federal and state corporate income tax on its taxable income at regular corporate income tax rates. Moreover, unless entitled to statutory relief, the non-qualifying REIT could not qualify as a REIT for the four taxable years following the year during which REIT qualification was lost. Risks Relating to Redemption of OP Units A holder who offers its OP units for redemption may have adverse tax consequences. A limited partner who elects to redeem its OP units will be treated for federal and state income tax purposes as having sold the OP units, resulting in a taxable event to such limited partner.  The gain or loss recognized by the limited partner is measured by the difference between the amount realized thereby and the tax basis in the OP units redeemed (which tax basis includes the amount of the qualified nonrecourse liabilities of Host L.P. allocated to the redeemed OP units). It is possible that the amount of gain and/or the tax liability related thereto that the limited partner recognizes and pays could exceed the value of the common stock or cash received from the redemption of its OP units. General Risk Factors Shares of Host Inc.’s common stock that are or become available for sale could affect the share price of Host Inc.’s common stock. We have in the past issued and may in the future issue additional shares of common stock to raise the capital necessary to finance hotel acquisitions, fund capital expenditures, refinance debt or for other corporate purposes. Sales of a substantial number of shares of Host Inc.’s common stock, or the perception that sales could occur, could affect adversely prevailing market prices for Host Inc.’s common stock. In addition, limited partners of Host L.P. who redeem their OP units and receive, at Host Inc.’s election, shares of Host Inc. common stock will be able to sell those shares freely. As of December 31, 2020, there are approximately 7.2 million Host LP OP units outstanding that are owned by third parties and that are redeemable, which represents approximately 1% of all outstanding OP units. Further, shares of Host Inc.’s common stock have been and will be issued or reserved for issuance from time to time under our employee benefit plans.  We currently maintain two stock-based compensation plans: (i) the comprehensive stock and cash incentive plan, and (ii) an employee stock purchase plan. At December 31, 2020, there were approximately 15 million shares of Host Inc.’s common stock reserved and available for issuance under the comprehensive stock plan and employee stock purchase plan. An increase in interest rates would increase the interest costs on our credit facility and on our floating rate indebtedness and could impact adversely our ability to refinance existing indebtedness or to sell assets. Interest payments for borrowings on our credit facility and the mortgages on certain non-consolidated properties are based on floating rates. As a result, an increase in interest rates will reduce our cash flow available for other corporate purposes, including investments in our portfolio. As of December 31, 2020, approximately 45% of our debt is subject to floating interest rates.  Rising interest rates also could limit our ability to refinance existing indebtedness when it matures and increase interest costs on any indebtedness that is refinanced. We may from time to time enter into agreements such as floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps, caps, floors and other hedging contracts in order to fully or partially hedge against the cash flow effects of changes in interest rates for floating rate debt. These agreements expose us to the risk that other parties to the agreements will not perform or that the agreements 27 will be unenforceable. In addition, an increase in interest rates could decrease the amount third parties are willing to pay for our hotels, thereby limiting our ability to dispose of them as part of our business strategy. A portion of our long-term indebtedness, specifically $2.5 billion of credit facility revolving and term loans, bears interest at floating interest rates based on USD-LIBOR. We expect to transition from LIBOR to another reference rate due to the expected cessation of the LIBOR reference rate. On November 30, 2020, the U.S. Federal Reserve Board expressed support for a plan to cease publication of the one week and two month LIBOR rates after December 31, 2021, and the remaining LIBOR rates after June 30, 2023, and encouraged banks to transition away from LIBOR as soon as possible. Accordingly, it is highly likely that LIBOR for the primary LIBOR rates under our credit facility will be discontinued after June 2023, and, until our credit facility is modified to provide for a specific benchmark replacement, it is unclear what rate will apply to such credit facility debt. Such transition could cause interest rates under our current or future debt agreements to perform differently than in the past or cause other unanticipated and adverse consequences. Compliance with the Americans with Disabilities Act and other government regulations can be costly. Our hotels are subject to various other forms of regulation, including Title III of the Americans with Disabilities Act (“ADA”), building codes and regulations pertaining to fire and life safety. Under the ADA, all public accommodations are required to meet certain federal rules related to access and use by disabled persons and we incur capital expenditures to make our hotels accessible. In addition, we have committed to provide, and certain local laws and contracts between our hotel managers and hotel workers’ unions require our hotels to provide, our managers’ employees with safety devices, sometimes known as “panic buttons.” We fund the capital necessary to ensure that employees at our hotels will be equipped with these safety devices. These and other laws and regulations may be changed from time-to-time, or new regulations adopted, resulting in additional costs of compliance, including potential litigation. A determination that we are not in compliance with these laws and regulations could result in a court order to bring the hotel into compliance, imposition of civil penalties in cases brought by the Justice Department, or an award of attorneys’ fees to private litigants. Compliance with these laws and regulations could require substantial capital expenditures. Any increased costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.  In addition, the operations of our foreign hotels are subject to a variety of United States and international laws and regulations, including the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anti-corruption laws, but we cannot assure that we will continue to be found to be operating in compliance with, or be able to detect violations of, any such laws or regulations. Litigation judgments or settlements could have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition. We are involved in various legal proceedings in the ordinary course of business and are defending these claims vigorously; however, no assurances can be given as to the outcome of any pending legal proceedings. We believe, based on currently available information, that the results of current proceedings, in the aggregate, will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, but might be material to our operating results for any period, depending, in part, upon the quantum of our operating results for such period. We also could become the subject of future claims by the operators of our hotels, individuals or companies who use our hotels, our investors, our joint venture partners or regulating entities and these claims could have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Environmental liabilities are possible and can be costly. Our hotels are subject to requirements and potential liabilities under various foreign and U.S. federal, state and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations. Unidentified environmental liabilities could arise and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and performance. Additionally, even after we have sold a hotel, we may be liable for environmental liabilities that occurred during our ownership. Federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment may require a current or previous owner or operator of real estate to investigate and remediate hazardous or toxic substances or petroleum product releases at the property. The owner or operator may be required to pay a governmental entity or third parties for property damage, and for investigation and remediation costs incurred by the parties in connection with the contamination. These laws typically impose clean-up responsibility and liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of or caused the presence of the contaminants. Even if more than one person may have been responsible for the contamination, each person covered by the environmental laws may be held responsible for all the clean-up costs incurred. In addition, third parties may sue the owner or operator of a site for damages and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating from that site. Environmental laws also govern the presence, maintenance and removal of toxic or hazardous substances. These laws require that owners or operators of buildings properly manage and maintain these substances and notify and train those who may come into contact with them and undertake special precautions. These laws may impose fines and penalties on building owners or operators who fail to comply with these requirements and may allow third parties to seek recovery from owners or operators for personal injury associated with exposure to toxic or hazardous materials. 28

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this report. This discussion focuses on our financial condition and results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. For a discussion and analysis of the year ended December 31, 2019 compared to the same period in 2018, please refer to Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in Part II Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10‑K for the year ended December 31, 2019, filed with the SEC on February 25, 2020. Overview Host Inc. operates as a self-managed and self-administered REIT that owns hotels and conducts operations through Host L.P., of which Host Inc. is the sole general partner and of which it holds approximately 99% of its common OP units as of December 31, 2020. The remainder of Host L.P.’s common OP units are owned by various unaffiliated limited partners. Host Inc. has the exclusive and complete responsibility for Host L.P.’s day-to-day management and control. Host Inc. is the largest lodging REIT in NAREIT’s composite index and one of the largest owners of luxury and upper upscale hotels. As of February 19, 2021, we own 80 hotels in the United States, Canada and Brazil and have minority ownership interests in an additional 10 hotels through joint ventures in the United States and in India. These hotels are operated primarily under brand names that are among the most respected and widely recognized in the lodging industry. Most of our hotels are located in central business districts of major cities, near airports and in resort/conference destinations. Our customers fall into three broad groups: transient business, group business and contract business, which accounted for approximately 64%, 30%, and 6%, respectively, of our 2020 room sales. By comparison, our 2019 room sales consisted of 61%, 35%, and 4%, respectively, for transient business, group business and contract business. Transient business broadly represents individual business and leisure travelers. Business travelers make up the majority of transient demand at our hotels. Therefore, we will be significantly more affected by trends in business travel than by trends in leisure demand. However, due to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, demand during the period April 2020 to present has primarily been driven by leisure customers. For a discussion of our customer categories, see “Item 1 Business – Our Customers”. COVID-19 Impact and Response. The COVID-19 pandemic has significantly adversely impacted U.S. and global economic activity and has contributed to significant volatility in financial markets beginning in the first quarter of 2020. The adverse economic impact continues as various restrictive measures remain in place in many jurisdictions where we own hotels, including quarantines, restrictions on travel, school closings, limitations on the size of gatherings and/or restrictions on types of business that may continue to operate. As a result, the pandemic continues to negatively impact almost every industry directly or indirectly, including having a severe impact on the U.S. lodging industry generally and our company specifically. The ongoing effects of the pandemic on our operations and future bookings have had, and will continue to have, a material negative impact on our financial results and cash flows, and such negative impact may continue well after restrictive measures imposed by federal, state, local and other governmental authorities to contain the outbreak have been lifted. We have not filed for any relief under the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (CARES Act); however, several of our operators, including Hyatt and Marriott, have filed for the Employee Retention Credit (“ERC”) to partially offset the costs of their furloughed hotel employees under Title II of the CARES Act, as discussed below. Benefits received by our operators from the ERC related to employees at our hotels ultimately will benefit us as we bear the expense for the wages and benefits of all persons working at our hotels. In response to the pandemic, we and our managers, as applicable, have taken the following actions: 33 The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the company remains fluid, as does our corporate and property-level response, together with the response of our hotel operators. There remains a great deal of uncertainty surrounding the timing for widespread availability of vaccines and, as a result, the duration of the COVID-19 pandemic remains difficult to predict. We, and our hotel managers, may take additional actions in response to future developments. Understanding Our Performance Our Revenues and Expenses. Our hotels are operated by third-party managers under long-term agreements, pursuant to which they typically earn base and incentive management fees based on the levels of revenues and profitability of each individual hotel. We provide operating funds, or working capital, which the managers use to purchase inventory and to pay wages, utilities, property taxes and other hotel-level expenses. We generally receive a cash distribution from our hotel managers each month, which distribution reflects hotel-level sales less property-level operating expenses (excluding depreciation). Operations from our domestic portfolio account for approximately 99% of our total revenues and 1% relate to our five hotels in Canada and Brazil. The following table presents the components of our hotel revenues as a percentage of our total revenues: 34 Hotel operating expenses represent approximately 97% of our total operating costs and expenses. The following table presents the components of our hotel operating expenses as a percentage of our total operating costs and expenses: The expense components listed above are based on those presented in our consolidated statements of operations. It also is worth noting that wage and benefit costs are spread among various line items. Taken separately, these costs represent approximately 59% of our rooms, food and beverage, and other departmental and support expenses. Key Performance Indicators. The following key performance indicators commonly are used in the hospitality industry and we believe provide useful information to management and investors in order to compare our performance with the performance of other lodging REITS: RevPAR changes that are driven by occupancy have different implications on overall revenue levels, as well as incremental operating profit, than do changes that are driven by average room rate. For example, increases in occupancy at a hotel will lead to increases in rooms revenues and ancillary revenues, such as food and beverage revenues, as well as additional incremental costs (including housekeeping services, utilities and room amenity costs). RevPAR increases due to higher room rates, however, will not result in additional room-related costs, except those charged as a percentage of revenues. As a result, changes in RevPAR driven by 35 increases or decreases in average room rates have a greater effect on profitability than do changes in RevPAR caused by occupancy levels. We also evaluate the performance of our business through certain non-GAAP financial measures. Each of these non-GAAP financial measures should be considered by investors as supplemental measures to GAAP performance measures such as total revenues, operating profit, net income and earnings per share. We provide a more detailed discussion of these non-GAAP financial measures, how management uses such measures to evaluate our financial condition and operating performance and a discussion of certain limitations of such measures in “—Non-GAAP Financial Measures.” Our non-GAAP financial measures include: In discussing our operating results, we typically present RevPAR and certain other financial data on a comparable hotel basis. However, due to the COVID-19 pandemic and its effects on operations, there is little comparability between years. For this reason, we are temporarily suspending our comparable hotel presentation and instead present hotel operating results for all consolidated hotels and, to facilitate comparisons between periods, we are presenting results on a pro forma basis, including the following adjustments: (1) operating results are presented for all consolidated hotels owned as of December 31, 2020, but do not include the results of operations for properties sold in 2019 or 2020; and (2) operating results for acquisitions in the current and prior year are reflected for full calendar years, to include results for periods prior to our ownership. For these hotels, since the year-over-year comparison includes periods prior to our ownership, the changes will not necessarily correspond to changes in our actual results. We also present RevPAR separately for our consolidated domestic and foreign (both on a nominal and constant dollar basis) hotels. We provide RevPAR results in constant currency due to the consolidated hotels that we own in Canada and Brazil and the effect that exchange rates have on our reporting. We use constant currency because we believe it is useful to investors as it provides clarity on how the hotels are performing in their local markets. For all other measures (net income, operating profit, EBITDA, FFO, etc.), our discussion refers to nominal US$, which is consistent with the presentation of our financial statements under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). Summary of 2020 Operating Results The following table reflects certain line items from our audited consolidated statements of operations and the significant operating statistics for the two years ended December 31, 2020 (in millions, except per share and hotel statistics): Historical Income Statement Data: 36 All Owned Hotel Data: N/M = Not meaningful. Revenues Total revenues declined $3,849 million, or 70.4%, compared to 2019, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, as we experienced a sharp decline in group, business and leisure travel beginning in mid-March 2020. An overall decline in travel as well as the postponement or cancellation of conventions and conferences, music and arts festivals, sporting events and other large public gatherings and on-going travel restrictions have significantly reduced demand at our hotels. All owned hotel pro forma RevPAR decreased 70.3% compared to 2019, on a constant US$ basis, due to a 5,260 basis point decline in occupancy to 26.0%. All owned hotel pro forma Total RevPAR decreased 69.4% for the year as food and beverage revenues also experienced significant declines due to the decline in occupancy. (see “Statement of Operations Results and Trends”). Following RevPAR increases in January and February 2020 across the majority of the portfolio, we experienced unprecedented occupancy declines in the second quarter, followed by modest sequential improvements in the third and fourth quarters. The incremental quarterly improvement in the second half of the year was driven by increased demand in drive-to leisure markets. As a result, all owned hotel Total RevPAR in our Florida Gulf Coast, Jacksonville and Miami markets declined the least during the year, with decreases of 40.6%, 46.1% and 46.6%, respectively, due primarily to short-term leisure demand in the second half of the year. All owned hotel Total RevPAR at our Phoenix properties declined 51.1% during the year, also benefiting from leisure business, which led to strong golf revenues at two of our properties in that market, while all owned hotel Total RevPAR at our Maui/Oahu properties declined 69.6%, with operations suspended for three of our hotels through the third quarter followed by hotel reopenings and loosening travel restrictions in the fourth quarter. Our hotels in San Francisco/San Jose and New York, our two largest markets by room count, experienced declines in all owned hotel Total RevPAR of 74.5% and 80.3%, respectively, due to suspension of operations for a portion of the year at several of these hotels. The largest all owned hotel Total RevPAR declines occurred in our Boston and Chicago markets, with decreases of 84.8% and 82.7%, respectively, as operations remain suspended at the Sheraton Boston Hotel and the Westin Chicago River North. Operating Profit Operating profit margins (calculated based on GAAP operating profit as a percentage of GAAP revenues) declined in 2020 to (58.8)% due to the decline in operations from the COVID-19 pandemic. Operating profit margins under GAAP also are affected significantly by several items, including dispositions, depreciation expense and corporate expenses. Our all owned hotel pro forma EBITDA margins, which exclude these items, declined to (8.5)% for the year. 37 Net Income, Adjusted EBITDA re and Adjusted FFO per Diluted Share Net income for Host Inc. decreased $1,673 million in 2020 to a loss of $741 million primarily due to the decline in operations from the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as a $132 million decrease in other gains/(losses), consisting primarily of lower gain on sale of assets in 2020 as compared to 2019. These results led to a diluted loss per common share for Host Inc. of $1.04. Adjusted EBITDA re, which excludes, among other items, gain on sale of assets, impairment expense and severance expense, decreased to $(168) million for the year, while Adjusted FFO per diluted share, which excludes gain on sale of assets and other real estate transactions, including depreciation, impairment and severance, decreased to $(0.17) in 2020. The trends and transactions described above for Host Inc. affected similarly the operating results for Host L.P., as the only significant difference between the Host Inc. and Host L.P. statements of operations relates to the treatment of income attributable to the unaffiliated limited partners of Host L.P. 2021 Outlook The COVID-19 pandemic has severely impacted macroeconomic and industry expectations for 2021. While economic growth and business investment are expected to accelerate meaningfully in 2021, supported by further stimulus, low interest rates, and vaccine distribution, government-imposed restrictions across the U.S. remain. Many regions continue to grapple with the early 2021 surge in outbreaks and new variants of the virus, which has resulted in elevated jobless claims and slower economic activity in the first part of the year. While forecasts for 2021 remain uncertain, Blue Chip Economic Indicators consensus currently estimates an increase in real GDP of 4.9% for the year, while business investment is anticipated to increase 6.8%. Though analysts believe the unemployment rate peaked in 2020, it is anticipated to remain elevated into 2021, with an expected average of 5.8% for the year. The range of potential outcomes on the economy and the lodging industry specifically is exceptionally wide, reflecting both the unprecedented nature of the pandemic and varying analyst assumptions surrounding infection rates, new virus variants and the timing of vaccine deployments. Hotel supply growth is anticipated to remain below the long-term historical average in 2021, as social distancing measures and supply chain challenges resulted in project delays across the U.S. A large percentage of U.S. hotels closed temporarily in 2020, and while many have begun to reopen, we anticipate that the number of permanent hotel closures will be higher than historical averages. The pandemic’s outsized impact on our industry has resulted in a breakdown of the relationship between increased business investment and RevPAR growth. RevPAR recovery is anticipated to lag that of the broader U.S. economy, despite lower supply growth. Luxury and upper upscale hotels in top markets, where a majority of our hotels are located, have been most heavily affected by the pandemic, due in part to the sharp decline in air travel, particularly from international arrivals, and the slower recovery of corporate and group demand. While we have seen slightly improving trends, we anticipate that these factors will persist in 2021. As a result of the significant uncertainties related to the timing of vaccine deployment, further government stimulus and related policy, and resulting broader macroeconomic trends in 2021, we anticipate that the industry outlook will continue to be weighed down by the slow return of corporate and group travel, as businesses likely will remain cautious. While investor optimism has grown in the early part of 2021 as analysts focus on the potential for significant pent-up leisure demand, existing corporate policies are expected to continue to constrain nonessential business transient and group travel until the country approaches herd immunity. Given the unprecedented and unpredictable nature of the pandemic and its effect on our industry, we are not able to provide a full year forecast for RevPAR at this time. We believe that recovery within the lodging industry is highly dependent on the strength of the economy, consumer confidence and, especially with respect to corporate and group travel, the timing of vaccine deployment. Accordingly, we believe the recovery in 2021 likely will be gradual and that the impact on specific markets and industries will be uneven. As noted above, the current outlook for the lodging industry remains highly uncertain. There can be no assurances as to the timing for a recovery in lodging demand for any number of reasons, including, but not limited to, slower than anticipated return of group and business travel. For more information on the risks that can affect our future results, see Part 1 Item 1A. “Risk Factors.” Strategic Initiatives For 2021, we intend to continue our disciplined approach to capital allocation in order to strengthen our portfolio and to deliver stockholder value through multiple levers, which may include, over time, acquiring hotels or investing in our portfolio. We intend to take advantage of our strong capital position and overall scale to acquire upper-upscale and luxury properties, through single asset or portfolio acquisitions, that we believe have sustainable competitive advantages to drive long-term value to the extent favorable pricing opportunities arise as a result of the pandemic. At the same time, we will opportunistically sell hotels when market conditions permit, including the pursuit of exiting the Brazil and Canada markets in order to focus on our domestic portfolio. We also continue to critically analyze our portfolio to seek to take advantage of the inherent value of our real estate for its highest and best use. 38 Dispositions . We completed the sale of the Newport Beach Marriott Hotel & Spa in 20 20 for net proceeds of approximately $202 million . Additionally, in transactions completed during the year, we sold a total of 38 acres of land adjacent to The Phoenician for $ 83 million . Financing transactions . Senior Notes. On August 20, 2020, we completed an underwritten public offering of $600 million aggregate principal amount of 3.5% Series I senior notes and on September 3, 2020, we completed the issuance of an additional $150 million aggregate principal amount of Series I senior notes, for total proceeds of approximately $733 million, net of discounts, underwriting fees and expenses. The Series I senior Notes have been designated as green bonds, as an amount equal to the net proceeds will be allocated to eligible green projects. A portion of the proceeds were used in August 2020 to repay approximately 81% of the outstanding 4.75% Series C senior notes due 2023 for $390 million, including $26 million of prepayment costs. Additionally, the remaining $86 million of Series C senior notes were redeemed in December 2020 for $94 million, including a premium of approximately $8 million. This eliminated the final series of senior notes issued before we attained an investment grade rating, and therefore any covenants or restrictions under our non-investment grade senior notes indentures no longer are applicable. Credit Facility. During the year, we had a net draw of $1,483 million under the revolver portion of our credit facility. Additionally, in June 2020 and February 2021, we amended the terms of our credit facility, under which t he quarterly-tested financial maintenance covenants were waived beginning July 1, 2020 until the required financial statement reporting date for the second quarter of 2022 . Following the covenant waiver period, certain financial maintenance covenants are modified through the third quarter of 2023. We believe that our ability to maintain an investment grade balance sheet and well-laddered maturity schedule is an important factor in our investment strategy. Through our transactions in 2020, we were able to lower our weighted average interest rate to 3.0% at December 31, 2020, compared to 3.8% at December 31, 2019, and extended our weighted average debt maturity to 5.0 years. We have a debt balance of $5.5 billion and no significant debt maturities until 2023. For a detailed discussion, see “—Liquidity and Capital Resources.” For a detailed discussion of our significant debt activities, see Part II Item 8 “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 5.  Debt” in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Capital Projects. We continue to pursue opportunities to enhance asset value through select capital improvements, including projects that are designed to increase the eco-efficiency of our hotels, incorporate elements of sustainable design and replace aging equipment and systems with more efficient technology. During 2020, we spent approximately $499 million on capital expenditures, of which $343 million represented return on investment (“ROI”) capital expenditures and $156 million represented renewal and replacement projects. In collaboration with Marriott, we initiated a transformational capital program in 2018 on an initial 17 properties, now 16 properties following the sale of the Newport Beach Marriott Hotel & Spa, that is expected to occur over a four-year period. We believe these investments will make these hotels more competitive in their respective markets and will enhance long-term performance through increases in RevPAR and market yield index. To accelerate this process, we agreed to invest amounts in excess of the FF&E reserves required under our management agreements, or approximately an average of $175 million per year, which amounts are included in the forecast range of 2021 capital expenditures reflected below. In exchange, Marriott has provided additional priority returns on the agreed upon investments and operating profit guarantees of $83 million, before reductions for incentive management fees, over the four years to offset expected business disruption. Of the 16 properties included in the program, we substantially completed the projects at the Coronado Island Marriott Resort & Spa, New York Marriott Downtown, San Francisco Marriott Marquis, and Santa Clara Marriott in 2019 and projects at the Minneapolis Marriott City Center, San Antonio Marriott Rivercenter and JW Marriott Atlanta Buckhead in 2020. W ork is underway at seven other properties. Approximately 65% of the total estimated costs of the transformational capital program have been spent as of December 31, 2020 and, in 2021, we expect to substantially complete four additional properties, including:  The Ritz-Carlton Amelia Island, New York Marriott Marquis, Houston Medical Center Marriott and Orlando World Center Marriott. In 2021, we also have several projects scheduled to be completed or initiated that seek to add value to our existing portfolio over time. These include: 39 For 2021, we expect to make capital expenditures of $375 million to $475 million, including approximately $110 million to $140 million for the Marriott transformational capital program discussed above, which is expected to be nearly 85% complete by year-end 2021. We received approximately $19 million in operating profit guarantees in 2020 from Marriott and expect to receive approximately $16 million in 2021. The total expected capital spend consists of $275 million to $325 million of ROI projects and $100 million to $150 million of renewal and replacement projects. We have established key milestones to review major projects prior to implementation, with the ability to reduce 2021 capital expenditures by approximately $150 million, if required, to conserve cash. Share Repurchases and Dividends. On August 5, 2019, Host Inc.’s Board of Directors authorized an increase in its share repurchase program from $500 million to $1 billion. In the first quarter of 2020, we repurchased 8.9 million common shares at an average price of $16.49 per share, exclusive of commissions, for a total of $147 million, prior to suspending our repurchases in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. At December 31, 2020, we had $371 million available for repurchase under the program. Repurchases are currently restricted under the terms of our credit facility amendment. During 2020, Host Inc.’s Board of Directors declared a dividend of $0.20 per share in the first quarter, with respect to Host Inc.’s common stock. Accordingly, Host L.P. made distributions of $0.2042988 per unit with respect to its common OP units for 2020. As part of its response to COVID-19 and in order to preserve cash and future financial flexibility, Host suspended its regular quarterly common cash dividend commencing with the second quarter dividend that would have been paid in July 2020. There can be no assurances as to when dividends will be restored but, based on the terms of the credit facility amendments, we are restricted to paying a quarterly common cash dividend of $0.01 per share or higher amounts to the extent necessary to allow Host Inc. to maintain REIT status or to avoid corporate income or excise taxes, until after the covenant waiver period expires following the second quarter of 2022. The amount of any future dividends will be based on our policy of distributing, over time, 100% of our taxable income and will be determined by Host Inc.’s Board of Directors. However, while the dividend is suspended to preserve cash and liquidity, we believe that we have sufficient liquidity and access to the capital markets in order to fund our capital expenditures programs and to take advantage of investment opportunities. 40 Results of Operations The following table reflects certain line items from our audited consolidated statements of operations for the two years ended December 31, 2020 (in millions, except percentages): N/M = Not meaningful Statement of Operations Results and Trends The following table presents revenues in accordance with GAAP for the two years ended December 31, 2020 (in millions, except percentages): The significant decline in revenues was due predominantly to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, which began to significantly impact hotel operations beginning in March of 2020. After a significant decline in revenues in the second quarter, revenues gradually improved through subsequent quarters, although they remained well below historical levels. Our 2020 revenues on a quarterly basis were as follows: Rooms . Total rooms revenues decreased $2,455 million, or 71.6%, in 2020. Rooms revenues in 2019 include $196 million of revenues for hotels sold in 2020 and 2019. Food and beverage . Total F&B revenues decreased $1,221 million, or 74.1%, in 2020. F&B revenues in 2019 include $77 million of revenues for hotels sold in 2020 and 2019. Other revenues . Total other revenues decreased $173 million, or 44.2%, in 2019. Attrition and cancelation fees increased $3 million compared to 2019. Other revenues in 2019 include $26 million of revenues for hotels sold in 2020 and 2019. 41 Property-level Operating Expenses The following table presents consolidated property-level operating expenses in accordance with GAAP for the two years ended December 31, 2020 (in millions, except percentages): Our operating costs and expenses, which consist of both fixed and variable components, are affected by several factors. Rooms expenses are affected mainly by occupancy, which drives costs related to items such as housekeeping, reservation systems, room supplies, laundry services and front desk costs. Food and beverage expenses correlate closely with food and beverage revenues and are affected by occupancy and the mix of business between banquet and audio-visual and outlet sales. However, the most significant expense for the rooms, food and beverage, and other departmental and support expenses is wages and employee benefits, which comprise approximately 59% of these expenses in any year. During 2020, these expenses declined 54% compared to 2019, excluding the severance expense discussed below. Included in these amounts in 2020 is $125 million for benefits to hotel employees who were furloughed by our managers and special pay, partially offset by approximately $39 million related to the ERC recorded by our managers. We also recorded $65 million of severance costs in 2020, which has been excluded from the wage and benefit discussions below . Other property-level expenses consist of property taxes, which are highly dependent on local taxing authorities, and property and general liability insurance, and do not necessarily change based on changes in revenues at our hotels. The decline in expenses for rooms, food and beverage, other departmental and support, and management fees predominantly are due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, as follows: Rooms . Rooms expenses decreased $511 million, or 58.5%, during 2020. Wages and benefits represented approximately 71% of our 2020 rooms expenses and 66% of our 2019 rooms expenses. Food and beverage. F&B expenses decreased $700 million, or 62.5%, in 2020. Wages and benefits represented approximately 74% of our 2020 F&B expenses and 70% of our 2019 F&B expenses. Other departmental and support expenses . Other departmental and support expenses decreased $609 million, or 47.0%, in 2020. Wages and benefits represented approximately 44% of our 2020 other departmental and support expenses and 41% of our 2019 other departmental and support expenses. Management fees . Total management fees decreased $200 million, or 83.7%, in 2020. Base management fees, which generally are calculated as a percentage of total revenues, decreased $119 million, or 72.1%, compared to 2019. Incentive management fees, which generally are based on the amount of operating profit at each hotel after we receive a priority return on our investment, decreased $91 million, as we did not pay incentive management fees during 2020. Other property-level expenses . These expenses generally do not vary significantly based on occupancy and include expenses such as property taxes and insurance. Other property-level expenses decreased $53 million, or 14.5%, in 2020, primarily due to a decrease in rent on a portion of our ground leases that are based on a percentage of sales. Other property-level expenses were partially offset by the receipt of operating profit guarantees from Marriott under the transformational capital program in both 2020 and 2019. Depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization expense decreased $11 million, or 1.6%, to $665 million in 2020, due to impairment expense that was recorded in 2019. 42 Other Income and Expense s Corporate and other expenses . Corporate and other expenses include the following items (in millions): General and administrative costs primarily consist of wages and benefits, travel, corporate insurance, legal fees, audit fees, building rent and systems costs. In 2020, corporate and other expenses declined by approximately 17% compared to 2019, as a result of r educed compensation, travel and other overhead. In 2019, corporate and other expenses include costs associated with a significant transformation of our corporate information systems platform, the implementation of which was completed in the second quarter of 2019. Gain on insurance and business interruption settlements . In 2019, we received $27 million of property insurance proceeds related to Hurricane Irma, that occurred in 2017, resulting in a gain of $4 million. Interest income. Interest income decreased $24 million, or 75.0%, in 2020 due to a decline in interest rates. Interest expense . Interest expense decreased $28 million, or 12.6%, in 2020 as compared to 2019, reflecting the benefits from refinancing activities in 2019 and 2020 as well as a decline in floating interest rates, which was partially offset by increased principal balances outstanding due to the credit facility draw. Interest expense for 2020 also reflects less prepayment premiums on the repayment of the Series C senior notes compared to the prepayment premiums paid in 2019 on the Series Z and Series B senior notes. The following table presents certain components of interest expense (in millions): Other gains/(losses). The following table presents the gains recognized on the sale of assets and other (in millions): 43 Equity in earnings (losses) of affiliates . In 2020, we recorded a loss of $ 30 million related to our unconsolidated investments . This included a $14 million loss for our share of an inventory impairment expense recorded by our Maui timeshare joint venture , in addition to operating losses incurred by our investments. In 2019 , we recorded earnings of $ 14 million from our unconsolidated investments. Benefit (provision) for income taxes. We lease substantially all our properties to consolidated subsidiaries designated as TRS for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Taxable income or loss generated/incurred by the TRS primarily represents hotel-level operations and the aggregate rent paid to Host L.P. by the TRS, on which we record an income tax provision or benefit. In 2020, we recorded an income tax benefit of $220 million due primarily to the domestic net operating loss incurred by our TRS. As a result of legislation enacted by the CARES Act, such domestic net operating loss may be carried back up to five years in order to procure a refund of U.S. federal corporate income taxes previously paid. Any domestic net operating loss incurred by our TRS not carried back pursuant to these rules may be carried forward indefinitely, subject to an annual limit on the use thereof of 80% of annual taxable income. We expect to generate additional net operating losses from our TRS in 2021 and we will evaluate whether or not to record an income tax benefit for all or a portion of such net operating loss at that time. The 2019 income tax provision of $30 million primarily related to hotel operations at our TRS. See also Part II Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 7. Income Taxes” for a discussion of our income taxes. Hotel RevPAR Overview To facilitate a year-over-year comparison of our operations, we typically present certain operating statistics for the periods included in this presentation on a comparable hotel basis. However, due to the COVID-19 pandemic and its effects on operations, there is little comparability between periods. For this reason, we are revising our presentation to instead present pro forma hotel operating results for all hotels. See “All Owned Hotel Operating Statistics” for a complete description of our methodology. We also discuss our Hotel RevPAR results by geographic location and mix of business (i.e., transient, group, or contract). 44 20 20 Compared to 201 9 Hotel Operating Data by Location . The following table sets forth performance information for our hotels by geographic location as of December 31, 2020 and 2019: All Owned Hotels (pro forma) by Location in Constant US$ (1) 45 Hotel Sales by Business Mix. The majority of our customers fall into three broad categories:  transient, group and contract business. The information below is derived from business mix results from the 79 hotels owned as of December 31, 2020. The following are the results of our consolidated portfolio transient, group and contract business: Liquidity and Capital Resources Liquidity and Capital Resources of Host Inc. and Host L.P. The liquidity and capital resources of Host Inc. and Host L.P. are derived primarily from the activities of Host L.P., which generates the capital required by our business from hotel operations, the incurrence of debt, the issuance of OP units or the sale of hotels. Host Inc. is a REIT and its only significant asset is the ownership of general and limited partner interests of Host L.P.; therefore, its financing and investing activities are conducted through Host L.P., except for the issuance of its common and preferred stock. Proceeds from common and preferred stock issuances by Host Inc. are contributed to Host L.P. in exchange for common and preferred OP units. Additionally, funds used by Host Inc. to pay dividends or to repurchase its stock are provided by Host L.P. Therefore, while we have noted those areas in which it is important to distinguish between Host Inc. and Host L.P., we have not included a separate discussion of liquidity and capital resources as the discussion below applies to both Host Inc. and Host L.P. Overview. We look to maintain a capital structure and liquidity profile with an appropriate balance of cash, debt and equity to provide financial flexibility given the inherent volatility of the lodging industry. We believe this strategy has resulted in a better cost of debt capital, allowing us to complete opportunistic investments and acquisitions and it positions us to manage potential declines in operations throughout the lodging cycle. We have structured our debt profile to maintain a balanced maturity schedule and to minimize the number of assets that are encumbered by mortgage debt. Currently, none of our consolidated hotels are encumbered by mortgage debt. Over the past several years leading up to the COVID-19 pandemic, we had decreased our leverage as measured by our net debt-to-EBITDA ratio and reduced our debt service obligations, leading to an increase in our fixed charge coverage ratio. As a result, the company was well positioned at the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic with sufficient liquidity and financial flexibility to withstand the severe slowdown in U.S. economic activity and lodging demand brought on by the pandemic. We were able to take further steps in 2020 to bolster our liquidity position as outlined below. Under the current challenging operating environment posed by the COVID-19 pandemic, we have taken steps to preserve liquidity by drawing on our credit facility, working with our hotel operators to reduce operating costs at the hotel, reducing corporate level expenses, suspending our quarterly dividend and stock repurchases and deferring certain capital expenditures projects to future years. These actions contributed to lowering our cash used in operating activities each quarter following the beginning of the pandemic. We intend to use available cash in the near term predominantly to fund negative operations at our hotels, corporate expenses and reduced levels of capital expenditures. However, we also are well positioned to execute acquisitions to the extent favorable pricing opportunities arise. 46 Despite the challenges caused by the COVID-19 pandemic and economic crisis, we believe that we have sufficient liquidity to withstand the current decline in operating cash flow and to fund our capital expenditures programs. We may access equity markets if favorable conditions exist in order to enhance our liquidity and to fund cash needs, including to fund acquisitions or other investment opportunities generated by the COVID-19 pandemic. The following summarizes the change in cash flows from 2 019 to 2020 for significant items that affected our cash balance and reflect s our actions to preserve financial liquidity: Cash Requirements. We use cash for acquisitions, capital expenditures, debt payments, operating costs, and corporate and other expenses, as well as for dividends and distributions to stockholders and Host L.P. limited partners and stock and OP unit repurchases. Our primary sources of cash include cash from operations, proceeds from the sale of assets, borrowings under our credit facility and debt and equity issuances. Our cash obligations include the minimum lease payments on our ground leases, which in 2021 are approximately $32 million. For a summary of our obligations under our ground leases, see Exhibit 99.1 to this Annual Report. Our ground lease payments are the longest time horizon obligations and currently run up to 91 years, while other operating obligations are generally short term in nature. We have no significant debt maturities until 2023. In addition to the liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet, under our capital expenditures program, we have budgeted to spend $375 million to $475 million in 2021, but have the ability to reduce this spend by approximately $150 million if required to conserve cash. Commitments for capital expenditures generally run less than two years for the life of the project. As a REIT, Host Inc. is required to pay dividends to its stockholders in an amount equal to at least 90% of its taxable income, excluding net capital gain, on an annual basis. As part of our COVID-19 response, our regular quarterly common cash dividend currently is suspended and we are restricted from repurchasing stock or OP Units under the terms of our credit facility amendment as discussed below. See also Part II Item 8. “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 17. Legal Proceedings, Guarantees and Contingencies” for a discussion of obligations under contingent liabilities or guarantees. Capital Resources. As of December 31, 2020, we had $2,335 million of cash and cash equivalents, and $139 million in our FF&E escrow reserve. We have substantially utilized the $1.5 billion revolver under our credit facility to increase our liquidity in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. In the near term, we expect to fund our above cash requirements, including our capital expenditures program, debt payments, operating and corporate costs, primarily with our existing cash reserves due to the negative operating cash from operations as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Based on our cash balance at December 31, 2020 and our expected cash obligations, we believe we will have sufficient liquidity to meet our near-term obligations, even if our hotel operations remain at current negative operating levels. We depend primarily on external sources of capital to finance future growth, including acquisitions. As a result, the liquidity and debt capacity provided by our credit facility and the ability to issue senior unsecured debt are key components of our capital structure. Our financial flexibility (including our ability to incur debt, pay dividends, make distributions and make investments) is contingent on our ability to maintain compliance with the financial covenants of our credit facility and senior notes, which include, among other things, the allowable amounts of leverage, interest coverage and fixed charges. Following the amendments of our credit facility agreement discussed below, the quarterly-tested financial covenants were waived beginning July 1, 2020 until the required financial statement reporting date for the second quarter of 2022. However, we currently are below the interest coverage ratio required under our senior notes indentures to incur additional debt and, while not an event of default, we will be unable to incur additional debt while we remain below the required covenant level. 47 Given the total amount of our debt and our maturity schedule, we may continue to redeem or repurchase senior notes from time to time, taking advantage of favorable market conditions . In February 20 2 1 , Host Inc.’s Board of Directors authorized repurchases of up to $1.0 billion of senior notes other than in accordance with their respective terms, of which the entire amount remains available under this authority. We may purchase senior notes for cash through open market purchases, privately negotiated transactions, a tender offer or, in some cases, through the early redemption of such securities pursuant to their terms. Repurchases of debt will depend on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors. Any retirement before the maturity date will affect earnings and NAREIT FFO per diluted share as a result of the payment of any applicable call premiums and the accelerated expensing of previously deferred and capitalized financing costs. Accordingly, considering our priorities in managing our capital structure and liquidity profile and given prevailing conditions and relative pricing in the capital markets, we may, at any time, subject to applicable securities laws and the requirement s of our credit facility and senior notes , be considering, or be in discussions with respect to, the repurchase or issuance of exchangeable debentures and/or senior notes or the repurchase or sale of our common stock. Any such transactions may, subject to applicable securities laws, occur simultaneously. In February 2017, Host Inc.’s Board of Directors authorized a program to repurchase up to $500 million of Host Inc. common stock, and on August 5, 2019, authorized an increase in the program to $1 billion. The common stock may be purchased from time to time depending upon market conditions and may be purchased in the open market or through private transactions or by other means, including principal transactions with various financial institutions, like accelerated share repurchases, forwards, options, and similar transactions and through one or more trading plans designed to comply with Rule 10b5-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The plan does not obligate us to repurchase any specific number or any specific dollar amount of shares and may be suspended at any time at our discretion. Under the terms of our credit facility amendment in 2020, we currently are restricted from repurchasing stock. We continue to explore potential acquisitions and dispositions. We anticipate that any such future acquisitions will be funded primarily by proceeds from sales of hotels, but also potentially from equity offerings of Host Inc., issuances of OP units by Host L.P.,  or available cash. Given the nature of these transactions, we can make no assurances that we will be successful in acquiring any one or more hotels that we may review, bid on or negotiate to purchase or that we will be successful in disposing of any one or more of our hotels. We may acquire additional hotels or dispose of hotels through various structures, including transactions involving single assets, portfolios, joint ventures, acquisitions of the securities or assets of other REITs or distributions of hotels to our stockholders. Sources and Uses of Cash. In 2020, our primary sources of cash included proceeds from the issuance of debt, draws on our credit facility revolver and dispositions. Our primary uses of cash during the year consisted of capital expenditures, operating costs, debt repayments, repurchases of common stock and distributions to equity holders. We do not anticipate significant cash from operations in 2021 and we are restricted from issuing debt under the covenants of our senior notes indenture. However, we have significant available cash and also have access to stock issuances and property dispositions as alternative sources of cash. Primary uses of cash are expected to include continued funding of operating shortfalls at our properties, interest and other corporate expenses and capital expenditures. Subject to market conditions, other uses of cash may include property acquisitions or other investments. Cash Provided by/Used in Operations . Our net cash used in operations for 2020 was $307 million compared to cash provided by operations in 2019 of $1,250 million due primarily to the decline in operations at our properties due to the COVID-19 pandemic and the need to fund operating shortfalls at our properties. In the first quarter of 2020, our portfolio provided cash from operations due to positive operating results in January and February. However, beginning with the second quarter, we experienced significant cash outflows from operating activities which continued through the second half of the year. However, net cash used in operations did decrease in each sequential quarter as a result of reducing operating costs at our hotels and the slightly improving levels of operations. The following presents the net cash provided by (used in) operating activities for each quarter in 2020: Cash Provided by/Used in Investing Activities . Approximately $195 million of cash was used in investing activities during 2020 compared to $58 million provided in 2019. In addition to the acquisition and disposition activity detailed in the charts below, we spent approximately $499 million on capital expenditures in 2020, compared to $558 million in 2019. These amounts include certain internal costs and interest expense associated with our capital expenditures projects that have been capitalized in accordance with GAAP. These capitalized costs were $12 million, $12 million and $11 million for 2020, 2019, and 2018, respectively. 48 The following tables summarize significant acquisitions, dispositions and return of investments in affiliates from January 1, 201 9 through February 19, 2021 (in millions): Cash Provided by/Used in Financing Activities . Net cash provided by financing activities was $1,231 million for 2020, as compared to net cash used in financing activities of $1,315 million in 2019. Cash provided by financing activities in 2020 primarily consisted of the issuance of $750 million of 3.5% Series I senior notes and a draw on the credit facility, while 2019 included the issuance of $650 million of senior notes. Cash used in financing activities in 2020 included the repayment of the Series C senior notes, with a portion of the proceeds from the issuance of the Series I senior notes, and the redemption of preferred OP units and cash used in 2019 included the repayment of senior notes. While cash used in 2020 and 2019 both included stock repurchases and dividend payments, payments in 2020 for these items were $638 million lower compared to 2019, as we suspended dividends and repurchases in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. The following table summarizes significant issuances, net of deferred financing costs and issuance discounts, that have been completed from January 1, 2019 through February 19, 2021 (in millions): 49 The following table presents significant debt repayments, including prepayment premiums, that have been completed from January 1, 201 9 through February 19, 2021 (in millions): Equity/Capital Transactions. The following table summarizes significant equity transactions that have been completed from January 1, 2019 through February 19, 2021 (in millions): Financial Condition As of December 31, 2020, our total debt was approximately $5.5 billion, of which 55% carried a fixed rate of interest. Total debt was comprised of the following (in millions): _________ 50 Aggregate debt maturities at December 31, 20 20 are as follows (in millions): Senior Notes. On August 20, 2020, we completed an underwritten public offering of $600 million aggregate principal amount of 3.5% Series I senior notes and on September 3, 2020, we completed the issuance of an additional $150 million aggregate principal amount of Series I senior notes. The proceeds were used to make a tender offer for our Series C senior notes and to improve our liquidity position in response to the COVID-19 pandemic.  The Series I senior notes are not redeemable prior to 90 days before the September 15, 2030 maturity date, except at a price equal to 100% of their principal amount plus a make-whole premium and accrued and unpaid interest to the applicable redemption date. The Series I senior notes have covenants similar to all other series of our outstanding senior notes. The following summary is a description of the material provisions of the indentures governing the various senior notes issued by Host L.P., to which we refer collectively as the senior notes indenture. We pay interest on each series of our outstanding senior notes semi-annually in arrears at the respective annual rates indicated on the table above. Under the terms of our senior notes indenture, our senior notes are equal in right of payment with all of Host L.P.’s unsubordinated indebtedness and senior to all subordinated obligations of Host L.P. Currently there are no guarantees provided to the senior notes, but we have agreed that all Host L.P. subsidiaries which guarantee other Host L.P. debt must similarly provide guarantees to the senior notes. All of our outstanding senior notes at December 31, 2020 were issued after we attained an investment grade rating and have covenants customary for investment grade debt and covenants that are similar to each other series of our senior notes. These covenants are primarily limitations on our ability to incur additional debt. There are no restrictions on our ability to pay dividends. Under the terms of our senior notes, Host L.P.’s ability to incur debt is subject to restrictions and the satisfaction of various conditions, including the achievement of an EBITDA-to-interest coverage ratio of at least 1.5x by Host L.P. As calculated, this ratio excludes from interest expense items such as call premiums and deferred financing charges that are included in interest expense on Host L.P.’s audited consolidated statement of operations. In addition, the calculation is based on Host L.P.’s pro forma results for the four prior fiscal quarters, giving effect to certain transactions, such as acquisitions, dispositions and financings, as if they had occurred at the beginning of the period. Other covenants limiting Host L.P.’s ability to incur debt include maintaining total debt of less than 65% of adjusted total assets (using undepreciated real estate book values), maintaining secured debt of less than 40% of adjusted total assets (using undepreciated real estate book values) and maintaining total unencumbered assets of at least 150% of the aggregate principal amount of outstanding unsecured debt of Host L.P. and its subsidiaries. So long as Host L.P. maintains the required level of interest coverage and satisfies these and other conditions in the senior notes indenture, it may incur additional debt. The following table summarizes the financial tests contained in the senior notes indenture for our senior notes and our actual credit ratios as of December 31, 2020: 51 We are in compliance with certain of the financial ratios applicable to our senior notes as of December 3 1 , 2020, but we fell below the 1.5x requirement for the EBITDA-to-interest coverage ratio starting as of the end of the third quarter of 2020 and, as a result, while not in default, we will not be able to incur additional debt while the ratio remains below this requirement. We expect to continue to be below the 1.5x interest coverage ratio and hence will be unable to incur additional debt until operations substantially improve from current levels. Credit Facility. On August 1, 2019, we entered into the fifth amended and restated senior revolving credit and term loan facility, with Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. as co-syndication agents, and certain other agents and lenders. The credit facility allows for revolving borrowings in an aggregate principal amount of up to $1.5 billion (which is substantially fully utilized). The revolver also includes a foreign currency subfacility for Canadian dollars, Australian dollars, Euros, British pounds sterling and, if available to the lenders, Mexican pesos, of up to the foreign currency equivalent of $500 million, subject to a lower amount in the case of Mexican peso borrowings. The credit facility also provides for a term loan facility of $1 billion (which is fully utilized), a subfacility of up to $100 million for swingline borrowings in currencies other than U.S. dollars and a subfacility of up to $100 million for issuances of letters of credit. Host L.P. also has the option to add in the future $500 million of commitments which may be used for additional revolving credit facility borrowings and/or term loans, subject to obtaining additional loan commitments (which we have not currently obtained) and the satisfaction of certain conditions. The revolving credit facility has an initial scheduled maturity date of January 11, 2024, which date may be extended by up to a year by the exercise of up to two 6-month extension options, each of which is subject to certain conditions, including the payment of an extension fee and the accuracy of representations and warranties. One $500 million term loan tranche has an initial maturity date of January 11, 2024, which date may be extended up to a year by the exercise of one 1-year extension option, which is subject to certain conditions, including the payment of an extension fee; and the second $500 million term loan tranche has a maturity date of January 9, 2025, which date may not be extended. Neither the revolving credit facility nor the term loans, as applicable, requires any scheduled amortization payments prior to maturity, other than those required during the Covenant Relief Period as set forth below. The term loans are subject to the same terms and conditions as those in the credit facility regarding subsidiary guarantees, operational covenants, financial covenants and events of default (as discussed below). Guarantees. Similar to our senior note indentures, the credit facility requires all Host L.P. subsidiaries which guaranty Host L.P. debt to similarly guarantee obligations under the credit facility. Currently, there are no such guarantees. Prepayments. Voluntary prepayments of revolver borrowings and term loans under the credit facility are permitted in whole or in part without premium or penalty. Financial Covenants. The credit facility contains covenants concerning allowable leverage, fixed charge coverage and unsecured interest coverage. We are permitted to make borrowings and maintain amounts outstanding under the credit facility so long as our ratio of consolidated total debt to consolidated EBITDA (“leverage ratio”) is not in excess of 7.25x, our unsecured coverage ratio is not less than 1.75x and our fixed charge coverage ratio is not less than 1.25x. Except as set forth below during the Covenant Relief Period, these calculations are performed based on pro forma results for the prior four fiscal quarters, giving effect to transactions such as acquisitions, dispositions and financings as if they had occurred at the beginning of the period. Under the terms of the credit facility, interest expense excludes items such as the gains and losses on the extinguishment of debt, deferred financing charges related to the senior notes or the credit facility, amortization of debt premiums or discounts that were recorded at issuance of a loan in order to establish its fair value and non-cash interest expense, all of which are included in interest expense on our audited consolidated statements of operations. Additionally, total debt used in the calculation of our leverage ratio is based on a “net debt” concept, pursuant to which cash and cash equivalents in excess of $100 million are deducted from our total debt balance. Amendments .  On June 26, 2020, we entered into an amendment to the credit facility and on February 9, 2021, we entered into a second amendment to the credit facility (collectively, the “Amendments”). The Amendments suspend requirements to comply with all existing financial maintenance covenants under the credit facility for the period which began on July 1, 2020 and ending on the required financial statement reporting date for the second quarter of 2022 (such period, the “Covenant Relief Period”). The existing financial maintenance covenants are reinstated for the quarter ending June 30, 2022, except that after the reinstatement instead of using the prior four calendar quarters’ results in the calculations, only results for the second quarter of 2022 and thereafter are used during a phase in period.  In addition, for the second quarter of 2022, the only financial covenant that shall be required to be satisfied shall be a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio of 1.00:1.00 as of the end of such quarter.  For the fiscal quarters ending after the Covenant Relief Period (i.e., after June 30, 2022), the financial covenant requirements set forth in the credit facility before the Amendments shall apply, except that the maximum leverage ratio requirement will be amended to be (a) 8.50:1:00 as at the end of the first and second fiscal quarters ending after the Covenant Relief Period, (b) 8.00:1.00 as at the end of the third and fourth fiscal quarters ending after the Covenant Relief Period, (c) 7.50:1:00 as at the end of the fifth fiscal quarter ending after the Covenant Relief 52 Period and (d) 7.25:1.00 at all times thereafter. The Amendment s permit us to terminate the Covenant Relief Period at any time, subject to demonstrating satisfaction of the financial maintenance covenants that otherwise would apply for the quarter ending June 30, 202 2 . The Amendments also provide for, among other things: In connection with each Amendment, we paid a consent fee of 7.5 basis points on the amount of each consenting lender’s commitments under the revolver and term facilities. 53 At December 31, 2020, the following table summarizes the results of the financial tests required by the credit facility, for informational purposes only, as the covenants are not currently in effect under the Amendment s : Interest and Fees. We pay interest on revolver borrowings under the credit facility at floating rates equal to LIBOR plus a margin. Outside of the Covenant Relief Period, the margin ranges from 77.5 to 145 basis points (depending on Host L.P.’s unsecured long-term debt rating). The Amendments increased the applicable margin during the Covenant Relief Period by 40 basis points. We also pay a facility fee ranging from 12.5 to 30 basis points, depending on our rating and regardless of usage. Based on Host L.P.’s unsecured long-term debt rating as of December 31, 2020, we are able to borrow at a rate of LIBOR plus 150 basis points and pay a facility fee of 25 basis points. Outside of the Covenant Relief Period, interest on the term loans consists of floating rates equal to LIBOR plus a margin ranging from 85 to 165 basis points (depending on Host L.P.’s unsecured long-term debt rating). The Amendments also increased the applicable margin during the Covenant Relief Period by 40 basis points. Based on Host L.P.’s long-term debt rating as of December 31, 2020, our applicable margin on LIBOR loans under both term loans is 165 basis points. Borrowings under our revolver (currently $1.5 billion) and the $1 billion outstanding in term loans constitute our primary obligations denominated in LIBOR. The United Kingdom’s Financial Conduct Authority, which regulates LIBOR, announced that it intends to phase out LIBOR over time. On November 30, 2020, the U.S. Federal Reserve Board expressed support for a plan to cease publication of the one week and two month LIBOR rates after December 31, 2021, and the remaining LIBOR rates after June 30, 2023, and encouraged banks to transition away from LIBOR as soon as possible. Accordingly, it is highly likely that the LIBOR rates under our credit facility will be discontinued after June 2023. There currently is no definitive information regarding the future utilization of LIBOR or of any particular replacement rate. As such, the potential effect of any such event on our cost of capital cannot yet be determined.  Our credit facility provides that in the event LIBOR no longer is published, we and Bank of America, N.A., as administrative agent, will amend the credit facility to provide for a comparable successor rate or, in the absence of an amendment, borrowings will be deemed converted to base rate borrowing at the higher of the federal funds rate plus ½ of 1% or the “prime rate” announced by Bank of America, N.A. Other Covenants and Events of Default. The credit facility contains restrictive covenants on customary matters. Certain covenants are less restrictive at any time that our leverage ratio is below 6.0x. At any time that our leverage ratio is below 6.0x, and outside of the Covenant Waiver Period, acquisitions, investments, dividends and distributions generally are permitted except where they would result in a breach of the financial covenants, calculated on a pro forma basis. Additionally, the credit facility’s restrictions on incurrence of debt incorporate the same financial covenant as set forth in our senior notes indenture. The credit facility also includes usual and customary events of default for facilities of this nature, and provides that, upon the occurrence and continuance of an event of default, payment of all amounts due under the credit facility may be accelerated and the lenders’ commitments may be terminated. In addition, upon the occurrence of certain insolvency or bankruptcy related events of default, all amounts due under the credit facility automatically will become due and payable and the lenders’ commitments automatically will terminate. Mortgage Debt of Unconsolidated Joint Ventures. We own non-controlling interests in joint ventures that are not consolidated and that are accounted for under the equity method. The portion of the mortgage and other debt of these joint ventures attributable to us, based on our ownership percentage thereof, was $145 million at December 31, 2020. The debt of our unconsolidated joint ventures is non-recourse to us. Distributions/Dividends . Host Inc.’s policy on common dividends generally is to distribute, over time, at least 100% of its taxable income, which primarily is dependent on our results of operations, as well as on tax gains and losses on hotel sales. After paying its regular quarterly common cash dividend of $0.20 per share for the first quarter of 2020, Host Inc. suspended its regular quarterly common cash dividend in order to preserve cash and future financial flexibility in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Any future dividend will be subject to approval by Host Inc.’s Board of Directors. In addition, in connection with the amendments to the credit facility, we agreed to substantial limitations on our ability to pay common cash dividends during the Covenant Relief Period as discussed above. 54 Funds used by Host Inc. to pay dividends are provided by distributions from Host L.P. As of December 31, 20 20 , Host Inc. is the owner of approximately 99% of Host L.P.’s common OP units. The remaining common OP units are owned by various unaffiliated limited partners. Each OP unit may be offered for redemption by the limited partners for cash or, at the election of Host Inc., Host Inc. common stock based on the then current conversion ratio. The current conversion ratio is 1.021494 shares of Host Inc. common stock for each OP unit. During the Covenant Relief Period, all redemptions must be made with Host Inc. common stock . Investors should consider the 1% non-controlling position of Host L.P. OP units when analyzing dividend payments by Host Inc. to its stockholders, as these holders of OP units share, on a pro rata basis, in amounts being distributed by Host L.P. to holders of its OP units. For example, if Host Inc. paid a $1 per share dividend on its common stock, it would be based on the payment of a $1.021494 per common OP unit distribution by Host L.P. to Host Inc., as well as to the other common OP unitholders. Counterparty Credit Risk. We are subject to counterparty credit risk, which relates to the ability of counterparties to meet their contractual payment obligations or the potential non-performance of counterparties to deliver contracted commodities or services at the contracted price. We assess the ability of our counterparties to fulfill their obligations to determine the impact, if any, of counterparty bankruptcy or insolvency on our financial condition. We are exposed to credit risk with respect to cash held at various financial institutions and access to our credit facility. We believe our credit exposure in each of these cases is limited, as the credit risk is spread among a diversified group of investment grade financial institutions. Critical Accounting Policies Our consolidated financial statements have been prepared in conformity with U.S. GAAP, which requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities at the date of our financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. While we do not believe the reported amounts would be materially different, application of these policies involves the exercise of judgment and the use of assumptions as to future uncertainties and, as a result, actual results could differ from these estimates. We evaluate our estimates and judgments, including those related to the impairment of long-lived assets, on an ongoing basis. We base our estimates on experience and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. All our significant accounting policies are disclosed in the notes to our consolidated financial statements. For a detailed discussion of the following critical accounting policies that require us to exercise our business judgment or make significant estimates, see “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data – Note 1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies”: All Owned Hotel Operating Statistics and Results To facilitate a year-over-year comparison of our operations, we typically present certain operating statistics (i.e., Total RevPAR, RevPAR, average daily rate and average occupancy) and operating results (revenues, expenses, hotel EBITDA and associated margins) for the periods included in this annual report on a comparable hotel basis in order to enable our investors to better evaluate our operating performance. However, due to the COVID-19 pandemic and its effects on operations, there is little comparability between periods. For this reason, we temporarily are suspending our comparable hotel presentation and instead present hotel operating results for all consolidated hotels and, to facilitate comparisons between periods, we are presenting results on a pro forma basis, including the following adjustments: (1) operating results are presented for all consolidated hotels owned as of December 31, 2020, but do not include the results of operations for properties sold in 2019 or through the reporting date; and (2) operating results for acquisitions in the current and prior year are reflected for full calendar years, to include results for periods prior to our ownership. For these hotels, since the year-over-year comparison includes periods prior to our ownership, the changes will not necessarily correspond to changes in our actual results. Constant US$ and Nominal US$ Operating results denominated in foreign currencies are translated using the prevailing exchange rates on the date of the transaction, or monthly based on the weighted average exchange rate for the period. For comparative purposes, we also present the RevPAR results for the prior year assuming the results of our foreign operations were translated using the same exchange rates that were effective for the comparable periods in the current year, thereby eliminating the effect of currency fluctuation for the year-over-year comparisons. We believe that this presentation is useful to investors as it provides clarity with respect to the growth in RevPAR in the local currency of the hotel consistent with the manner in which we would evaluate our domestic portfolio. However, the effect of changes in foreign currency has been reflected in the actual results of net income, EBITDA, Adjusted EBITDA re , earnings per diluted share and Adjusted FFO per diluted share. Nominal US$ results include the effect of currency fluctuations consistent with our financial statement presentation. 55 Non-GAAP Financial Measures We use certain “non-GAAP financial measures,” which are measures of our historical financial performance that are not calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP, within the meaning of applicable SEC rules. These measures are as follows: (i) EBITDA, EBITDA re and Adjusted EBITDA re as a measure of performance for Host Inc. and Host L.P., (ii) Funds From Operations (“FFO”) and FFO per diluted share (both NAREIT and Adjusted), as a measure of performance for Host Inc., and (iii) all owned hotel pro forma operating results, as a measure of performance for Host Inc. and Host L.P. We calculate EBITDA re and NAREIT FFO per diluted share in accordance with standards established by NAREIT, which may not be comparable to measures calculated by other companies that do not use the NAREIT definition of EBITDA re and FFO or do not calculate FFO per diluted share in accordance with NAREIT guidance. In addition, although EBITDA re and FFO per diluted share are useful measures when comparing our results to other REITs, they may not be helpful to investors when comparing us to non-REITs. We also calculate Adjusted FFO per diluted share and Adjusted EBITDA re , which measures are not in accordance with NAREIT guidance and may not be comparable to measures calculated by other REITs or by other companies. This information should not be considered as an alternative to net income, operating profit, cash from operations or any other operating performance measure calculated in accordance with GAAP. Cash expenditures for various long-term assets (such as renewal and replacement capital expenditures), interest expense (for EBITDA, EBITDA re, and Adjusted EBITDA re purposes only) severance expense related to significant property-level reconfiguration and other items have been, and will be, made and are not reflected in the EBITDA, EBITDA re, Adjusted EBITDA re , NAREIT FFO per diluted share and Adjusted FFO per diluted share presentations. Management compensates for these limitations by separately considering the impact of these excluded items to the extent they are material to operating decisions or assessments of our operating performance. Our consolidated statements of operations and consolidated statements of cash flows include interest expense, capital expenditures, and other excluded items, all of which should be considered when evaluating our performance, as well as the usefulness of our non-GAAP financial measures. Additionally, NAREIT FFO per diluted share, Adjusted FFO per diluted share, EBITDA, EBITDA re and Adjusted EBITDA re should not be considered as measures of our liquidity or indicative of funds available to fund our cash needs, including our ability to make cash distributions. In addition, NAREIT FFO per diluted share and Adjusted FFO per diluted share do not measure, and should not be used as measures of, amounts that accrue directly to stockholders’ benefit. Similarly, EBITDA re , Adjusted EBITDA re , NAREIT FFO and Adjusted FFO per diluted share include adjustments for the pro rata share of our equity investments and NAREIT FFO and Adjusted FFO include adjustments for non-controlling partners in consolidated partnerships. Our equity investments consist of interests ranging from 11% to 67% in seven domestic and international partnerships that own a total of 10 hotels and a vacation ownership development. Due to the voting rights of the outside owners, we do not control and, therefore, do not consolidate these entities. The non-controlling partners in consolidated partnerships primarily consist of the approximate 1% interest in Host LP held by unaffiliated limited partners and a 15% interest held by an unaffiliated limited partner in one hotel for which we do control the entity and, therefore, consolidate its operations. These pro rata results for NAREIT FFO and Adjusted FFO per diluted share, EBITDA re and Adjusted EBITDA re are calculated as set forth below. Readers should be cautioned that the pro rata results presented in these measures for consolidated partnerships (for NAREIT FFO and Adjusted FFO per diluted share) and equity investments may not accurately depict the legal and economic consequences of our investments in these entities. The following discussion defines these terms and presents why we believe they are useful measures of our performance. EBITDA, EBITDAre and Adjusted EBITDAre EBITDA Earnings before Interest Expense, Income Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization (“EBITDA”) is a commonly used measure of performance in many industries. Management believes EBITDA provides useful information to investors regarding our results of operations because it helps us and our investors evaluate the ongoing operating performance of our properties after removing the impact of our capital structure (primarily interest expense) and our asset base (primarily depreciation and amortization). Management also believes the use of EBITDA facilitates comparisons between us and other lodging REITs, hotel owners who are not REITs and other capital-intensive companies. Management uses EBITDA to evaluate property-level results and as one measure in determining the value of acquisitions and dispositions and, like FFO and Adjusted FFO per diluted share, it is widely used by management in the annual budget process and for compensation programs. EBITDAre and Adjusted EBITDAre We present EBITDA re in accordance with NAREIT guidelines, as defined in its September 2017 white paper “Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization for Real Estate,” to provide an additional performance measure to facilitate the evaluation and comparison of our results with other REITs. NAREIT defines EBITDA re as net income (calculated in accordance with GAAP) excluding interest expense, income tax, depreciation and amortization, gains or losses on disposition of depreciated property (including gains or losses on change of control), impairment expense for depreciated property and of investments in unconsolidated affiliates caused by a decrease in value of depreciated property in the affiliate, and adjustments to reflect the entity’s pro rata share of EBITDA re of unconsolidated affiliates. 56 We make additional adjustments to EBITDA re when evaluating our performance because we believe that the exclusion of certain additional items described below provides useful supplemental information to investors regarding our ongoing operating performance. We believe that the presentation of Adjusted EBITDA re , when combined with the primary GAAP presentation of net income, is beneficial to an investor’s understanding of our operating performance. Adjusted EBITDA re also is similar to what is used in calculating certain credit ratios for our credit facility and senior notes. We adjust EBITDA re for the following items, which may occur in any period, and refer to this measure as Adjusted EBITDA re : In unusual circumstances, we also may adjust EBITDA re for gains or losses that management believes are not representative of the Company’s current operating performance. The last such adjustment of this nature was a 2013 exclusion of a gain from an eminent domain claim. The following table provides a reconciliation of EBITDA, EBITDA re , and Adjusted EBITDA re to net income (loss), the financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP that we consider the most directly comparable: Reconciliation of Net Income (Loss) to EBITDA, EBITDA re and Adjusted EBITDA re for Host Inc. and Host L.P. (in millions) 57 FFO Measures We present NAREIT FFO and NAREIT FFO per diluted share as non-GAAP measures of our performance in addition to our earnings per share (calculated in accordance with GAAP). We calculate NAREIT FFO per diluted share as our NAREIT FFO (defined as set forth below) for a given operating period, as adjusted for the effect of dilutive securities, divided by the number of fully diluted shares outstanding during such period in accordance with NAREIT guidelines. Effective January 1, 2019, we adopted NAREIT’s definition of FFO included in NAREIT’s Funds From Operations White Paper – 2018 Restatement. The adoption did not result in a change in the way we calculate NAREIT FFO. NAREIT defines FFO as net income (calculated in accordance with GAAP) excluding depreciation and amortization related to certain real estate assets, gains and losses from the sale of certain real estate assets, gains and losses from change in control, impairment expense of certain real estate assets and investments and adjustments for consolidated partially-owned entities and unconsolidated affiliates. Adjustments for consolidated partially-owned entities and unconsolidated affiliates are calculated to reflect our pro rata share of the FFO of those entities on the same basis. We believe that NAREIT FFO per diluted share is a useful supplemental measure of our operating performance and that the presentation of NAREIT FFO per diluted share, when combined with the primary GAAP presentation of earnings per share, provides beneficial information to investors. By excluding the effect of real estate depreciation, amortization, impairment expense and gains and losses from sales of depreciable real estate, all of which are based on historical cost accounting and which may be of lesser significance in evaluating current performance, we believe such measures can facilitate comparisons of operating performance between periods and with other REITs, even though NAREIT FFO per diluted share does not represent an amount that accrues directly to holders of our common stock. Historical cost accounting for real estate assets implicitly assumes that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time. As noted by NAREIT in its Funds From Operations White Paper – 2018 Restatement, the primary purpose for including FFO as a supplemental measure of operating performance of a REIT is to address the artificial nature of historical cost depreciation and amortization of real estate and real estate-related assets mandated by GAAP. For these reasons, NAREIT adopted the FFO metric in order to promote a uniform industry-wide measure of REIT operating performance. We also present Adjusted FFO per diluted share when evaluating our performance because management believes that the exclusion of certain additional items described below provides useful supplemental information to investors regarding our ongoing operating performance. Management historically has made the adjustments detailed below in evaluating our performance, in our annual budget process and for our compensation programs. We believe that the presentation of Adjusted FFO per diluted share, when combined with both the primary GAAP presentation of earnings per share and FFO per diluted share as defined by NAREIT, provides useful supplemental information that is beneficial to an investor’s understanding of our operating performance. We adjust NAREIT FFO per diluted share for the following items, which may occur in any period, and refer to this measure as Adjusted FFO per diluted share: In unusual circumstances, we also may adjust NAREIT FFO for gains or losses that management believes are not representative of our current operating performance. For example, in 2017, as a result of the reduction of the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21% by the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, we remeasured our domestic deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2017 and recorded a one-time adjustment to reduce our deferred tax assets and increase the provision for income taxes by approximately $11 million. We do not consider this adjustment to be reflective of our ongoing operating performance and, therefore, we excluded this item from Adjusted FFO. 58 The following table provides a reconciliation of the differences between our non-GAAP financial measures, NAREIT FFO and Adjusted FFO (separately and on a per diluted share basis), and net income (loss) , the financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP that we consider most directly comparable: Host Inc. Reconciliation of Diluted Earnings (Loss) per Common Share to NAREIT and Adjusted Funds From Operations per Diluted Share (in millions, except per share amount) 59 All Owned Hotel Pro Forma Property Level Operating Results We present certain operating results for our hotels, such as hotel revenues, expenses, food and beverage profit, and EBITDA (and the related margins), on a hotel-level pro forma basis as supplemental information for our investors. Our hotel results reflect the operating results of our hotels as discussed in “All Owned Hotel Operating Statistics and Results” above. We present all owned hotel EBITDA to help us and our investors evaluate the ongoing operating performance of our hotels after removing the impact of our capital structure (primarily interest expense) and our asset base (primarily depreciation and amortization expense). Corporate-level costs and expenses also are removed to arrive at property-level results. We believe these property-level results provide investors with supplemental information about the ongoing operating performance of our hotels. All owned hotel results are presented both by location and for our properties in the aggregate. While severance expense is not uncommon at the individual property level in the normal course of business, we eliminate from our hotel level operating results severance costs related to broad-based and significant property-level reconfiguration that is not considered to be within the normal course of business, as we believe this elimination provides useful supplemental information that is beneficial to an investor’s understanding of our ongoing operating performance. We also eliminate depreciation and amortization expense because, even though depreciation and amortization expense are property-level expenses, these non-cash expenses, which are based on historical cost accounting for real estate assets, implicitly assume that the value of real estate assets diminishes predictably over time. As noted earlier, because real estate values historically have risen or fallen with market conditions, many real estate industry investors have considered presentation of historical cost accounting for operating results to be insufficient. Because of the elimination of corporate-level costs and expenses, gains or losses on disposition, certain severance expenses and depreciation and amortization expense, the hotel operating results we present do not represent our total revenues, expenses, operating profit or net income and should not be used to evaluate our performance as a whole. Management compensates for these limitations by separately considering the impact of these excluded items to the extent they are material to operating decisions or assessments of our operating performance. Our consolidated statements of operations include such amounts, all of which should be considered by investors when evaluating our performance. While management believes that presentation of all owned hotel results is a supplemental measure that provides useful information in evaluating our ongoing performance, this measure is not used to allocate resources or to assess the operating performance of each of our hotels, as these decisions are based on data for individual hotels and are not based on all owned hotel results in the aggregate. For these reasons, we believe all owned hotel operating results, when combined with the presentation of GAAP operating profit, revenues and expenses, provide useful information to investors and management. 60 The following table presents certain operating results and statistics for our all owned hotel pro forma results for the periods presented herein: All Owned Hotel Pro Forma Results for Host Inc. and Host L.P. (in millions, except hotel statistics) 61