********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we currently believe could materially adversely affect us. Other risks and uncertainties that we do not presently consider to be material, or of which we are not presently aware, may become important factors that affect us in the future. If any of the risks discussed below actually occur or continue to occur, our business, financial condition, operating results or cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Accordingly, you should carefully consider the following risk factors, as well as other information contained in or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report. SUMMARY The following summarizes some of the key risks and uncertainties that could materially adversely affect us. You should read this summary together with the more detailed description of each risk factor contained below. Business and Industry • Global economic, political and financial market events or conditions may negatively impact our business. • Owning clearing houses exposes us to risks, including risks related to defaults by clearing members, risks related to investing margin and guaranty funds and the cost of operating the clearing houses. • A decline in the value of securities held as margin or guaranty fund contributions by our clearing houses or default by a sovereign government issuer could pose additional risks of default by clearing members. • Owning and operating cash equity and options exchanges exposes us to additional risks, including the regulatory responsibilities to which these businesses are subject. • Our business is subject to the impact of interest rate levels, inflation and financial markets volatility, which are caused by conditions that are beyond our control. • Systems failures in the derivatives and securities trading industry and mortgage technology industry have in the past, and could in the future, negatively impact us. • We may be at greater risk from terrorism, including cyberterrorism, than other companies. • Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our financial results. • We may have difficulty executing our growth strategy and maintaining our growth effectively. 20 • We may not be successful in offering new products or technologies or in identifying opportunities. • Climate change and the transition to renewable energy pose operational, commercial, regulatory and financial risks. • We may be required to recognize impairments of our goodwill, other intangible assets or investments. • We may not realize the expected benefits of our majority investment in Bakkt Holdings, Inc., or Bakkt, and the investment may introduce additional risks to our business due to its evolving business model. • Pandemics or other public health emergencies, including the emergence of new COVID-19 variants resulting in another pandemic, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Mergers & Acquisitions and Common Stock • We may fail to realize the anticipated cost savings, growth opportunities and synergies and other benefits anticipated from our recent acquisition of Black Knight and are subject to continuing obligations contained in the Agreement Containing Consent Orders, or the Consent Order, entered into between the Federal Trade Commission, or the FTC, ICE and Black Knight, which could adversely affect our business and the value of our common stock. • As a result of the consummation of the merger with Black Knight, we are subject to risks relating to the business conducted by Black Knight. • We may fail to complete or realize the anticipated cost savings, growth opportunities and synergies and other benefits anticipated from any future acquisitions or anticipated growth opportunities or expected benefits of our strategic investments, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock. • We are a holding company and depend on our subsidiaries for dividends, distributions and other payments. • Provisions of our organizational documents and Delaware law may delay or deter a change of control of ICE. Legal and Regulatory • Our businesses and those of many of our clients have been and continue to be subject to extensive legislation and regulatory scrutiny, and we face the risk of changes to our regulatory environment and business in the future. • Our compliance and risk management methods, as well as our fulfillment of our regulatory obligations, may not be effective, which could lead to enforcement actions by our regulators or other legal proceedings. • Regulatory developments or court rulings may have an adverse impact on our ability to derive revenue from market data and connectivity fees. • The uncertainty surrounding the U.K. and EU regulatory frameworks following the U.K.'s exit from the EU, commonly referred to as Brexit, could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. • Risks relating to the administration of benchmarks and indices, and changes to, cessations of, and the replacement of, or transition from, benchmarks and indices may result in legal risks and could adversely affect our business. • We may face liability for content contained in our data products and services. • We are subject to significant litigation and liability risks. Operational and Liquidity • Our systems and those of our third-party service providers are vulnerable to cyberattacks, hacking and other cybersecurity risks, which could result in wrongful manipulation, disclosure, destruction, or use of our information or that of a third party, or which could make our customers unable or reluctant to use our electronic platforms or other products and services. • Our business has in the past been, and may in the future be, harmed by computer and communication systems failures and delays. • An interruption or cessation of an important service, data or content supplied by any third party, or the loss of an exclusive license, could have a material adverse effect on our business. • Our success largely depends on key personnel, including our senior management, and having adequate succession plans in place. We may not be able to attract, retain and develop the highly skilled employees we need to support our business, which could harm our business. • We currently have a substantial amount of outstanding indebtedness which could adversely affect our financial condition and operations and restrict our activities or our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations. 21 Competition; Reputational Harm • We face intense competition, and if we fail to keep up with rapid changes in technology and client preferences, it could negatively impact our competitive position. • Damage to our reputation could damage our business. Intellectual Property • Our use of "open source" software could negatively impact our ability to sell our products and services and subject us to litigation. • A failure to protect our intellectual property rights, or allegations that we have infringed the intellectual property rights of others, could adversely affect our business. BUSINESS AND INDUSTRY Global economic, political and financial market events or conditions may negatively impact our business. Adverse macroeconomic conditions, including recessions, inflation, supply chain issues, labor shortages, government shutdowns, currency fluctuations, interest rate changes, increased mortgage foreclosure volume, decreased mortgage origination or servicing volume, decreased mortgage servicing volume, geopolitical events or conflicts, election results, international trade disputes, including the imposition of tariffs or other protectionist measures, actual or anticipated large-scale defaults or failures or slowdown of global trade have in the past negatively impacted consumer and corporate confidence and resulted in reductions in consumer, government and corporate spending, and could have such effects in the future, and in turn impact our business. If our customers reduce spending, workforce, mortgage origination or mortgage servicing activity, trading activity or demand for financial data as a result of challenges in the prevailing economic markets, our revenues could decline. During 2023, macroeconomic conditions, including rising interest rates, inflation and market volatility, along with geopolitical concerns, including the conflicts in Ukraine, Israel and Gaza, created economic and political uncertainty and volatility in global markets, resulted in a dynamic operating environment and impacted our operations and results, and these impacts may continue in 2024. In 2022 and continuing into 2023, the Russia-Ukraine conflict was a catalyst for an energy crisis in Europe. Government interventions related to the energy crisis resulting from the Russia-Ukraine conflict, such as the Market Correction Mechanism (price cap), or interventions that may be proposed in the future related to the Russia-Ukraine conflict or the conflict in Israel and Gaza could also have a negative impact on our business. See Item 1 “- Business - Regulation” above for additional information on various legislative proposals in the EU to address high energy prices. In addition, U.S. trade and diplomatic tensions, including U.S. government policies toward China and Chinese government policies toward the U.S., are likely to impact our existing business and future opportunities. For example, the Holding Foreign Companies Accountable Act, or HFCAA, enacted in December 2020, requires the SEC to suspend trading in the U.S. of any company whose accounting firm the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, or PCAOB, is unable to inspect or investigate for three consecutive years. Though, in December 2022, the PCAOB announced that it was able to inspect audit firms for the Chinese and Hong Kong issuers the SEC had previously identified as using non-inspected audit firms, thus resetting the three-year period in the HFCAA. In November 2023, the PCAOB announced settlements related to these inspections, which could lead to fewer Chinese companies listing in the U.S.  Moreover, there remains the risk that in the future the SEC may suspend trading of NYSE-listed companies under this Act, which would require us to suspend trading for those companies to comply with U.S. government policies, which could impact our business.  Further, in August 2023, President Biden issued an Executive Order aimed at prohibiting or requiring notification of certain investments by U.S. persons in Chinese companies involved in semiconductors and microelectronics quantum information technologies and artificial intelligence which could impact some of our businesses. The U.S. Department of Treasury has issued an advanced notice of proposed rulemaking to gather public feedback on implementing the Executive Order. The market data subscriptions and trading volumes in our markets could decline substantially if our market participants reduce their level of spending or trading activity for any reason, including: • adverse market conditions that curtail the addition of new customers or cause a decrease in purchases by our existing customers for our subscription-based products and services; • weakness in the macroeconomic environment that causes our customers to delay or cancel existing orders or subscriptions; 22 • cost-cutting pressures across the industry or decrease in demand for our subscription-based products and services that lead to a reduction in price; • consolidation in our markets or the markets of our customers that results in a reduction in the number of market participants; • a reduction in trading demand by customers or a decision to curtail or cease hedging or speculative trading; • regulatory or legislative changes impacting our business, our customers and financial markets; • political uncertainty and discord could negatively impact us if we are viewed as taking a political stance that is contrary to our customers’ beliefs or principles; • the impact of climate change and the transition to renewable energy and away from fossil fuels; • a prolonged decrease in volatility in the financial markets; • heightened capital and margin requirements or mandated reductions in leverage resulting from new regulations; • defaults by clearing or exchange members or the inability of participants to pay out contractual obligations; • changes to our contract specifications that are not viewed favorably by our market participants; or • reduced access to, or availability of, capital required to fund trading activities. A reduction in our overall trading volume could render our markets less attractive to market participants as a source of liquidity, which could result in further loss of trading volume and associated transaction-based revenues. A reduction in trading volumes could also result in a corresponding decrease in the demand for our market data, which would further reduce our overall revenue. Further, NYSE’s revenue increases when more companies are seeking access to public markets, and on the NYSE specifically. Continued stagnation or declines in the IPO market, or issuers choosing to list on venues other than the NYSE, have had and could continue to have an adverse effect on our revenues. In addition, adverse conditions in the residential mortgage lending industry, including a substantial or prolonged decline in mortgage lending volume or an increase in mortgage foreclosure volume, have in the past increased our costs or had an adverse effect on our revenues and may do so in the future. For example, beginning in early 2022, in line with the Federal Reserve raising rates numerous times as part of its anti-inflation strategy mortgage lending volume decreased substantially and although this trend began to revert halfway through 2023, it could return in the future, meaning we could see a further decline in mortgage origination volumes. This decrease in lending volume has adversely affected our revenues, in particular those of a transactional nature which are directly connected to the number of loans processed using our technology. Factors that are currently adversely impacting mortgage lending volumes include elevated mortgage interest rates, as well as housing affordability and availability. Additional factors that could now or in the future adversely impact mortgage lending volumes include reduced consumer and investor demand for mortgages, more stringent underwriting guidelines, decreased liquidity in the secondary mortgage market, high levels of unemployment, high levels of consumer debt, lower consumer confidence, changes in tax and other regulatory policies, the number of existing mortgages eligible for refinancing, and other macroeconomic factors. Although certain of our mortgage technology products, in particular those supporting default management, may see higher demand during times of rising mortgage foreclosure volume, this increase in demand may be outweighed by the impacts of reduced mortgage lending volume and in the aggregate may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. A reduction in mortgage volume could also result in a corresponding decrease in demand for mortgage data products, which would further reduce our revenues. Owning clearing houses exposes us to risks, including risks related to defaults by clearing members, risks related to investing margin and guaranty funds and the cost of operating the clearing houses. There are risks inherent in operating clearing houses, including exposure to the market and counterparty risk of clearing members, market liquidity risks, defaults by clearing members and risks associated with custody and investing margin or guaranty fund assets provided by clearing members to our clearing houses, which could subject our business to substantial losses. For example, clearing members in ICE Clear Europe have provided margin and guaranty funds with an aggregate cash balance of $42.5 billion as of December 31, 2023 and a total of $80.8 billion for all of our clearing houses as of December 31, 2023. In addition to the use of Sovereign Central Bank access when applicable, the ICE Clearing Houses may use third-party investment advisors for investment of cash assets, subject to the guidelines provided by each clearing house, and may add or change the investment managers from time to time. To the extent available, ICE Clear Credit holds the U.S. dollar cash and U.S. Treasuries that clearing members transfer to satisfy their original margin and guaranty fund requirements at its account at the Federal Reserve. With respect to other clearing member cash posted, 23 ICE Clear Credit currently self-manages and uses external investment managers to invest such cash margin and guaranty fund deposits. We have an obligation to return margin payments and guaranty fund contributions to clearing members to the extent that the relevant member’s risk based on its open contracts to the clearing house is reduced. If a number of clearing members substantially reduce their open interest or default, the concentration of risks within our clearing houses will be spread among a smaller pool of clearing members, which would make it more difficult to absorb and manage risk in the event of a further clearing member’s default. Although our clearing houses have policies and procedures to help ensure that clearing members can satisfy their obligations, such policies and procedures may not succeed in preventing losses after a member's or counterparty’s default. In addition, although we believe that we have carefully analyzed the process for setting margins and our financial safeguards, it is a complex process and there is no guarantee that our procedures will adequately protect us from the risks related to clearing these products. We cannot assure you these measures and safeguards will be sufficient to protect us from a default or that we will not be materially and adversely affected in the event of a significant default. We have contributed our own capital to the front of the guaranty fund of the clearing houses that could be used in the event of a default. We also have default insurance that resides after and in addition to the ICE Clear Credit, ICE Clear Europe, and ICE Clear U.S. ‘Skin In The Game’ contributions and before the guaranty fund contributions of the non-defaulting clearing members. Notwithstanding these actions, the default of any one of the clearing members could subject our business to substantial losses and cause our customers to lose confidence in the guaranty of our clearing houses. A decline in the value of securities held as margin or guaranty fund contributions by our clearing houses or default by a sovereign government issuer could pose additional risks of default by clearing members. Our clearing houses hold a substantial amount of assets as margin or guaranty fund contributions, which comprise U.S. and other sovereign treasury securities. As of December 31, 2023, our clearing houses held $88.0 billion of non-cash margin or guaranty fund contributions in U.S. and other sovereign treasury securities: $70.2 billion of this amount was comprised of U.S. Treasury securities, $3.7 billion of French Treasury securities, $1.4 billion of German Treasury securities, $1.6 billion of U.K. Treasury securities and $11.1 billion of other European, Japanese, Canadian and Tri-Party Treasury securities. Sovereign treasury securities have historically been viewed as one of the safest and most liquid securities for clearing houses to hold due to the perceived credit worthiness of major governments. If there is a collapse in a specific currency relied upon by our clearing houses, our clearing houses could face significant expenses and such an event could cause a credit contraction and major swings in asset prices and exchange rates. To mitigate this risk, our clearing houses currently apply a discount or “haircut” to the market values for all sovereign securities held as margin or guaranty fund contributions; however, market conditions could change more quickly than we adjust the amount of the haircuts and the haircuts could be insufficient in the event of a sudden market event. If the value of these securities declines significantly, our clearing houses will need to collect additional margin or guaranty fund contributions from their clearing members, which may be difficult for the members to supply in a time of financial stress affected by an actual or threatened default by a sovereign government. If a clearing member cannot supply the additional margin or guaranty fund contributions, which may include cash in a currency acceptable to the clearing house, the clearing house would deem the clearing member in default. If any clearing members default as a result of the reduction in the value of margin or guaranty fund contributions, our clearing houses and trading business could suffer substantial losses as a result of the loss of any capital that has been contributed to the clearing house’s guaranty funds and a loss of confidence by clearing members in the clearing house, resulting in a reduction in volumes of future cleared transactions. Further, our clearing houses invest large sums through reverse repo transactions in connection with their clearing operations and hold sovereign securities as security in connection with such investment transactions. In the event that a reverse repo counterparty defaults, the value of the sovereign securities we hold as collateral might not be sufficient to cover our losses. Our clearing houses may also make demand deposits with commercial banks which could be lost in the event one of these banks becomes insolvent. Owning and operating cash equity and options exchanges exposes us to additional risks, including the regulatory responsibilities to which these businesses are subject. Owning and operating cash equity and options exchanges for which the revenues are primarily derived from trading activity, market data and listing fees, exposes us to additional risks. Adverse economic conditions and legal and regulatory changes similar to those discussed elsewhere in this section could result in decreased trading volume on our exchanges, 24 discourage or prohibit market participants from listing on our exchanges or cause them to forgo new offerings. Any of these could reduce our revenues, including market data and listing fee revenue. Our cash equity and options exchanges also have certain regulatory responsibilities that must be fulfilled. For example, these exchanges are responsible for enforcing listed company compliance with applicable listing standards, enforcing our members' compliance with exchange rules and federal securities laws, complying with terms of NMS Plans, filing of all material changes to exchanges' rules with the SEC, and operating our exchanges consistent with exchange rules, federal securities laws, and other applicable laws. Any failure by one of our exchanges to comply with, and enforce compliance by their members with, exchange rules and securities laws could significantly harm our reputation, prompt regulatory scrutiny, result in the payment of fines or penalties and adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We must allocate significant resources to fulfill our regulatory and self-regulatory responsibilities. The for-profit exchanges’ goal of maximizing stockholder value might conflict with the exchanges’ regulatory and self-regulatory responsibilities. In addition, the listing of our common stock on the NYSE could potentially create a conflict between the exchange’s regulatory responsibilities to vigorously oversee the listing and trading of securities, on the one hand, and our commercial and economic interest, on the other hand. While we have structural protections to minimize these potential conflicts, we cannot be sure that such measures will be successful. Further, changes in the rules of our securities markets must be reviewed and approved by the SEC. Approval of such changes by the SEC cannot be guaranteed, and the SEC has in the past and could in the future delay either the approval process or the initiation of the public comment process. Any denial or delay in approving changes could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. The SEC continues to challenge fee filings on securities market data, which has in the past resulted in and could in the future negatively impact the value of proprietary data products. See Item 1 “- Business - Regulation” above for additional information regarding regulatory changes impacting our cash equities and options exchanges, including risks to our business associated with possible regulation of services offered by non-exchange affiliates. Our business is subject to the impact of interest rate levels, inflation and financial markets volatility, which are caused by conditions that are beyond our control. Trading volume in our markets and products is largely driven by the degree of volatility - the magnitude and frequency of fluctuations - in prices and levels of the underlying commodities, securities, indices, financial benchmarks or other instruments. Volatility increases the need to hedge price risk and creates opportunities for investment and speculative or arbitrage trading. Were there to be a sustained period of stability in the prices or levels of the underlying commodities, securities, indices, benchmarks or other instruments of our products, we could experience lower trading volumes, slower growth or declines in revenues. In addition, interest rates are a significant factor influencing mortgage loan production volumes and loan foreclosures. Rising interest rates are likely to reduce mortgage loan production volumes and increase loan foreclosures, which could potentially impact our transaction-based revenues. In the event that inflation continues to increase, this would likely further increase the cost of capital, resulting in a slowdown of the growth of early stage companies, causing companies to stay private longer. As inflation has rapidly increased and remained high in recent years, it has impacted the credit health of market participants, increased the risk of default and increased the risk of companies not being able to comply with listing standards. An inflationary environment generally also reduces consumer optimism, resulting in lower demand for mortgage loans. Factors that are particularly likely to affect price and interest rate levels and volatility, and thus trading and mortgage loan production volumes, include: • global economic and market conditions; • global political conditions including the presidential election in the U.S. and general elections in many jurisdictions in the U.S. and U.K.; and • concerns over recession, inflation, deflation, legislative and regulatory changes, government fiscal and monetary policy - including actions by the Federal Reserve and other foreign monetary units governing bodies, and investor and consumer confidence levels. Factors that are particularly likely to affect trading volumes include: 25 • weather conditions including hurricanes and other significant events, natural and unnatural disasters like large oil spills that impact the production of commodities and, in the case of energy commodities, production, refining and distribution facilities for oil and natural gas; • war, acts of terrorism and any unforeseen market closures or disruptions in trading; • political developments impacting international trade, including trade disputes and increased tariffs, particularly between the U.S. and China, and imposition of protectionist measures; • real and perceived changes in the supply and demand of commodities underlying our products, particularly energy and agricultural products, including changes as a result of technological improvements or the development of alternative energy sources; and • credit quality of market participants, the availability of capital and the levels of assets under management. Any one or more of these or other factors, which are beyond our control, may reduce volumes and trading activity. Further, lower market volatility could also result in more exchanges competing for trading volumes to maintain their growth. If any of these unfavorable conditions were to persist over a lengthy period of time and trading volumes were to decline substantially and for a long enough period, the critical mass of transaction volume necessary to support viable markets could be jeopardized. Because our cost structure is largely fixed, if demand for our current products and services declines for any reason, we may not be able to adjust our cost structure to counteract the associated decline in revenues, which would cause our net income to decline. Systems failures in the derivatives and securities trading industry and mortgage technology industry have in the past, and could in the future, negatively impact us. High-profile system failures in the derivatives and securities trading industry and mortgage technology industry have in the past, and could in the future, negatively impact our business and result in a loss of confidence in our technology and our markets, regulatory investigations, fines and penalties and business activity slowdown or interruptions. Further, regulators have imposed requirements for trading platforms that have been costly for us to implement and could result in a decrease in demand for some of our services. In particular, the SEC’s Regulation Systems Compliance and Integrity, or Regulation SCI, and the CFTC’s system safeguards regulations subject portions of our securities and derivatives trading platforms and other technological systems related to our clearing houses, trade repositories and the U.S. Swap Execution Facility, or SEF, to extensive regulation and oversight. Ensuring our compliance with the requirements of Regulation SCI and the CFTC’s system safeguards regulations requires significant ongoing administrative and compliance expenses and burdens. In addition, the SEC’s expansion of the obligations under Regulation SCI, including the ICE businesses or systems that are determined to be in the scope of the regulation, in the past has resulted, and in the future could result, in significant additional expenditures. We may be at greater risk from terrorism, including cyberterrorism, than other companies. Given our prominence in the global securities industry and the location of many of our properties and personnel in U.S. and European financial centers, including lower Manhattan, and our presence in India, Abu Dhabi and Israel, we may be more likely than other companies to be a direct target of, or an indirect casualty of, attacks by terrorists or terrorist organizations, or other extremist organizations that employ threatening or harassing means to achieve their social or political objectives. It is impossible to predict the likelihood or impact of any terrorist attack on the securities industry generally, or on our business. In the event of an attack or a threat of an attack, our security measures and contingency plans may be inadequate to prevent significant disruptions in our business, technology or access to the infrastructure necessary to maintain our business. Damage to our facilities due to terrorist attacks may be significantly in excess of insurance coverage, and we may not be able to insure against some damage at a reasonable price or at all. The threat of terrorist attacks may also negatively affect our ability to attract and retain employees. In addition, terrorist attacks may cause instability or decreased trading in the securities markets, including trading on exchanges. Any of these events could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect our financial results. Since we conduct operations in a number of countries and regions, including the U.S., U.K., EU, Canada, Asia Pacific and the Middle East, substantial portions of our revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we must translate non-U.S. dollar denominated revenues, income and expenses, as well as assets and liabilities, into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. Therefore, increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. 26 dollar against the other currencies could affect our net operating revenues, operating income and the value of balance sheet items denominated in foreign currencies. In an attempt to combat inflation, countries and regions have used monetary policy, through increasing central bank interest rates, and such actions have caused, and may continue to cause, volatility in currency exchange rates. External events such as Brexit have caused, and may in the future cause, significant volatility in currency exchange rates, especially among the U.S. dollar, the British pound sterling and the euro. If global economic and market conditions, or economic conditions in the U.K., EU, the U.S. or other key markets deteriorate, the value of the pound sterling, euro or U.S. dollar may weaken. Further, financial instability in a particular country could have a contagion effect on the region in which it is located and contribute to general instability and uncertainty in that region. Events that adversely affect our clients and suppliers in a region could in turn have a materially adverse effect on our international business results and our operating results. For additional information on our foreign currency exchange rate risk, refer to “- Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk” in Item 7A “- Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk", which is included in this Annual Report. We may have difficulty executing our growth strategy and maintaining our growth effectively. We have achieved significant growth since becoming a public company in 2005. Our growth is highly dependent on customer demand for our core products and services, favorable economic conditions and our ability to invest in our personnel, facilities, infrastructure and financial and management systems and controls. Adverse economic conditions could reduce customer demand for our products and services, which may place a significant strain on our management and resources and could force us to defer existing or future planned opportunities. We regularly evaluate our existing operations, service capacity and business efficiencies and, as a result of such evaluations, we may undertake strategic initiatives outside of and within our businesses. We may not be successful in executing on our strategies to support our growth organically or through acquisitions, other investments or strategic alliances. We may not be successful in offering new products or technologies or in identifying opportunities. We from time to time launch, and intend in the future to launch, new products, services and business ventures and continue to explore and pursue other opportunities to strengthen our business and grow our company. We have spent and may continue to spend substantial time and money developing new product or service offerings or improving current product or service offerings. If these offerings are not successful, we may miss a potential market opportunity and not be able to recover the costs of such initiatives. Obtaining any required regulatory approval associated with these offerings may also result in delays or restrictions on our ability to benefit fully from these offerings. Further, we have entered into and may seek in the future to enter into or increase our presence in markets that already possess established competitors who may enjoy the protection of high barriers to entry, among other advantages. In addition, in light of consolidation in the exchange, data services, clearing and mortgage technology sectors and competition for opportunities, we may be unable to identify strategic opportunities or we may be unable to negotiate or finance any future acquisition successfully. Our competitors could merge, making it more difficult for us to find appropriate entities to acquire or merge with and making it more difficult to compete in our industry due to the increased resources of our merged competitors. Also, offering new products and services and pursuing acquisitions requires substantial time and attention of our management team, which could prevent them from successfully overseeing other initiatives that are necessary for our success. Climate change and the transition to renewable energy pose operational, commercial, regulatory and financial risks. Climate change may increase the frequency or severity of extreme weather events, and if we are not adequately resilient to deal with acute climate events, our operations, either in a particular location or globally, may be impacted. Extreme weather events could also impact the activities of our customers or third-party vendors or suppliers. The physical commodities and assets underlying certain of our markets may also be impacted by climate change. In addition, the transition to renewable energy involves changes to consumer and institutional preferences around energy production and consumption, and the possible failure of our products or services to facilitate the needs of customers during the transition to renewable energy could adversely impact our business and revenues. Changing preferences could also have an adverse impact on the operations or financial condition of our customers, which could result in reduced revenues from those customers. We are also subject to risks relating to new or heightened climate change-related 27 regulations or legislation, which could impact us and our customers and result in increased regulatory, compliance or operational costs. We are also subject to reputational risks relating to the perception of whether or not we are facilitating a migration away from fossil fuels. For example, our reputation could be damaged as a result of our offering certain products or services associated with causing or exacerbating climate change, or by any decision by us to continue to conduct or change our activities in response to considerations relating to climate change. The risks associated with climate change and the transition to renewable energy are continuing to evolve rapidly, and we expect that climate change-related risks may increase over time. We may be required to recognize impairments of our goodwill, other intangible assets or investments. The determination of the value of goodwill and other intangible assets requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect our consolidated financial statements. As of December 31, 2023, we had goodwill of $30.6 billion and net other intangible assets of $17.3 billion relating to our acquisitions, including our acquisition of Black Knight in September 2023, and our purchase of trademarks and Internet domain names from various third parties. During 2023, we recorded an impairment on certain trademark intangible assets and during 2022, we recorded an impairment of our equity investment in Bakkt. We cannot assure you that we will not experience future events that may result in these types of impairments. An impairment of the value of our existing goodwill, other intangible assets and other investments and assets could have a significant negative impact on our future operating results. For additional information on our goodwill, other intangible assets and investments, refer to Notes 3, 4 and 9 to our consolidated financial statements and “- Critical Accounting Policies - Goodwill and Other Identifiable Intangible Assets” in Item 7 “- Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” which are included in this Annual Report. We may not realize the expected benefits of our majority investment in Bakkt and the investment may introduce additional risks to our business due to its evolving business model. We have a majority equity ownership interest and a minority voting interest in Bakkt, which operates as a separate publicly-traded company listed on the NYSE. Due to our majority equity ownership interest in Bakkt, we have increased financial and reputational risks if there is a security or system failure or if Bakkt's business is unsuccessful. We may not realize the returns originally expected from this investment or it may take longer than expected for us to realize the expected returns. In 2022, Bakkt reported an impairment of goodwill and intangible assets and we recorded an impairment of our equity investment in Bakkt. We have reviewed certain Bakkt performance indicators noting that as of September 30, 2023, Bakkt disclosed that it is monitoring its ability to continue as a going concern and recorded an impairment charge, our share of which was included in our equity losses in Bakkt for the year ended December 31, 2023. Bakkt has subsequently disclosed its conclusions regarding its substantial doubt of its ability to continue as a going concern. Subsequent impairments on our equity investment in Bakkt may become necessary. Furthermore, our investment in Bakkt entails numerous risks, including risks relating to our minority voting interest in Bakkt and risks relating to Bakkt’s ability to: • manage the complexity of its business model to stay current with the industry; • comply with existing or new laws, regulations or orders of any governmental authority related to the use of digital assets, which are currently under additional regulatory scrutiny following recent negative events in the cryptocurrency industry; • obtain and maintain required licenses and regulatory approvals for its business; • successfully enter categories and markets in which it may have limited or no prior experience; • apply distributed ledger technology to a global ecosystem for digital assets; • successfully develop and integrate products, systems or personnel into its business operations; • maintain a risk management and compliance framework designed to detect illegal activity such as fraud, money laundering, tax evasion and ransomware scams and comply with anti-money laundering, counter-terrorist financing laws and regulations and anti-corruption laws globally; and • maintain technology systems and processes that prevent cyberattacks and security vulnerabilities. As digital assets and blockchain technologies evolve, Bakkt may add, modify or discontinue certain aspects of its business model relating to the product mix and service offerings. Future additions and modifications to Bakkt’s business will increase the complexity of its business and place significant strain on Bakkt’s management, personnel, operations, 28 systems, technical performance, financial resources and internal financial control and reporting functions. We cannot offer any assurance that these or any other additions or modifications will be successful or will not result in harm to Bakkt’s business. In addition, recent volatility in digital asset markets and bankruptcies relating to digital asset companies could, among other things, reduce confidence in digital assets and blockchain technologies. These events are continuing to develop and it is not possible to predict at this time all of the risks that they may pose to Bakkt or on the digital asset industry as a whole. Pandemics and other public health emergencies, including the emergence of new COVID-19 variants resulting in another pandemic, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. The coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic created economic and financial disruptions globally and led governmental authorities to take unprecedented measures to mitigate the spread of the disease. From an operational perspective, the spread of COVID-19 resulted in, and the emergence of a new pandemic or other health emergency, including a resurgence of COVID-19, could in the future result in, temporary closures of our office facilities and the office facilities of our customers and our third-party vendors. We cannot assure you that such measures will adequately protect our business, and such measures could introduce new operational risks, including, but not limited to, cybersecurity risk, and strain our technological resources and business continuity plans. If one or more of the third-party vendors to whom we outsource certain material activities claim that they cannot perform due to a force majeure or experience operational failures as a result of a pandemic or other public health emergency, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. The emergence of variant strains that are resistant to vaccines or a decrease in the effectiveness of vaccines over the long term could impact, among other things, the availability of our executive officers, staff and primary facilities, and the viability of our customers. In addition, in 2022 and continuing into 2023, the spread of COVID-19 variants, along with other factors, such as restrictions and limitations on business activities, labor shortages at ports and for long-haul transportation, volatility in fuel costs and raw material shortages, have resulted in disruptions to global supply chains, which have impacted the availability of critical hardware and extended lead times for certain components and systems we require for our operations. A resurgence in COVID-19 cases, or another pandemic or public health emergency, could negatively affect the flow or availability of certain hardware and related products for technology that we need to operate our business effectively and efficiently. Our inability to acquire suitable hardware and related products on acceptable terms or the loss of key suppliers could negatively affect our business. Pandemic and public health-related restrictions could also impact third-party providers' abilities to meet their contractual obligations to us, potentially impacting our operations. Pandemics and public health emergencies could also have an adverse impact on our customers’ businesses, risk management needs and ability to trade, and, to the extent they do so may adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS AND COMMON STOCK We may fail to realize the anticipated cost savings, growth opportunities and synergies and other benefits anticipated from our recent acquisition of Black Knight and are subject to continuing obligations contained in the the Consent Order entered into between the FTC, ICE and Black Knight, which could adversely affect our business and the value of our common stock. We recently completed the acquisition of Black Knight and the success of the merger will depend on, among other things, our ability to successfully integrate the business of Black Knight into the ICE Mortgage Technology business in a manner that facilitates growth opportunities, realizes anticipated synergies, and achieves the projected cost savings, revenue growth and profitability targets of the combined businesses without adversely affecting current revenues and investments in future growth. There is a significant degree of difficulty and management distraction inherent in the process of integrating an acquisition, which may involve delays or additional and unforeseen expenses. The integration and other disruptions from the merger may also disrupt our ongoing businesses. In connection with the merger and the integration of Black Knight’s business, we have incurred and expect to continue to incur significant costs. These incremental transaction-related costs may exceed the savings and efficiencies we expect to achieve from the integration of the businesses. Following the completion of the acquisition of Black Knight, we continue to be subject to periodic reviews by the FTC under the Consent Order we entered into with them, and we are required to certify that we are in compliance with the restrictions contained in the Consent Order. In addition, ICE continues to provide services and infrastructure to divested business units under the scrutiny of a monitor appointed by the FTC, which could impact our operations and cause us to incur significant expenses. If we are not able to successfully achieve our objectives from the Black Knight merger within the anticipated time frame, or at all, the anticipated benefits may not be realized fully or at all, may take longer to realize than expected, and our business or stock price may be adversely affected. 29 As a result of the consummation of the merger with Black Knight, we are subject to risks relating to the business conducted by Black Knight. As a result of the consummation of the merger with Black Knight, we are subject to a variety of risks relating to the business conducted by Black Knight, many of which we, and more specifically, ICE Mortgage Technology, already face in our business, as described in various risk factors included in this Annual Report. Some of the specific risks facing Black Knight include risks relating to the mortgage lending industry, including general conditions in the industry; changes in inflation rates and interest rates; changes in current or new regulations and legislation and potential structural changes in the mortgage lending industry; technology risks, including cyber security and data privacy risks relating to Black Knight’s services; risks relating to intellectual property held or used by Black Knight; the ability of Black Knight to adequately compete with products or other companies, including through attracting new customers and retaining or selling additional service offerings to existing customers; risks relating to Black Knight’s use of international third-party service providers and Black Knight’s international operations; risks relating to Black Knight’s indebtedness; and risks relating to current and future legal proceedings or disputes involving Black Knight. In connection with any such legal proceeding or other dispute, we could incur significant expenses. An adverse resolution of any such proceeding or dispute may require us to pay substantial damages or impose restrictions on how we conduct business, either of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We may fail to complete or realize the anticipated cost savings, growth opportunities and synergies and other benefits anticipated from any future acquisitions or anticipated growth opportunities or expected benefits of our strategic investments, which could adversely affect the value of our common stock. We have completed many acquisitions, including our recent acquisition of Black knight, and plan to continue to pursue acquisitions and joint ventures. The success of our acquisitions will depend, in part, on our ability to integrate these businesses and realize anticipated cost savings, revenue synergies and growth opportunities. We generally set aggressive timelines for realizing savings, which assumes we successfully undertake a variety of actions (including, but not limited to, integrating technology, eliminating redundancies and effecting organizational restructurings) that are themselves subject to a variety of risks and may be subject to regulatory approvals that we do not control. The process of integrating acquired companies is time consuming and could disrupt each company’s ongoing businesses, produce unforeseen regulatory and operating difficulties (including inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures and policies that adversely affect relationships with market participants, regulators and others), require substantial resources and expenditures and divert the attention of management from the ongoing operation of the business. There is also a risk that we may not integrate these acquired companies in a manner that permits our expected cost savings and revenue synergies to be fully realized in the time periods expected, or at all. In addition, a variety of factors, including but not limited to regulatory conditions, governmental competition approvals, cultural differences and difficulty integrating technology platforms, may adversely affect our ability to complete our acquisitions or realize our anticipated cost savings and synergies. We also may not realize anticipated growth opportunities and other benefits from strategic investments or strategic joint ventures or alliances that we have entered into or may enter into for a number of reasons, including decline in value of the other company, regulatory or government approvals or changes, global market changes, contractual obligations, competing products and, in some instances, our lack of or limited control over the management of the business. Further, strategic initiatives that have historically been successful may not continue to be successful due to competitive threats, changing market conditions or the inability for the parties to extend the relationship into the future. As a result of any future acquisition, we may issue additional shares of our common stock that dilute our stockholders’ ownership interest, expend cash, incur debt, assume actual and contingent liabilities, inherit existing or pending litigation or create additional expenses related to amortizing intangible assets. Further, we cannot assure you that any such financing or equity investments will be available with terms that will be favorable to us, or available at all. We are a holding company and depend on our subsidiaries for dividends, distributions and other payments. We are a legal entity separate and distinct from our operating subsidiaries. Our principal source of cash flow, including cash flow to pay dividends to our stockholders, principal and interest on our outstanding debt or repurchase shares of our common stock, is dividends from our subsidiaries. There are statutory and regulatory limitations on the payment of dividends by certain of our subsidiaries to us. If our subsidiaries are unable to make dividend payments to us and sufficient cash or liquidity is not otherwise available, we may not be able to make dividend payments to our stockholders, principal and interest payments on our outstanding debt or repurchase shares of our common stock, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. 30 Provisions of our organizational documents and Delaware law may delay or deter a change of control of ICE. Our organizational documents contain provisions that may have the effect of discouraging, delaying or preventing a change of control of, or unsolicited acquisition proposals for, ICE. These provisions make a change of control less likely, which may be contrary to the desires of certain of our stockholders. Many of these provisions are required by relevant regulators in connection with our ownership and operation of U.S. and European equity exchanges. For example, our organizational documents include provisions that generally restrict any person (either alone or together with its related persons) from (i) voting or causing the voting of shares of stock representing more than 10% of our outstanding voting capital stock (including as a result of any agreement by any other persons not to vote shares of stock) or (ii) beneficially owning shares of stock representing more than 20% of the outstanding shares of any class or series of our capital stock. Further, our organizational documents generally limit the ability of stockholders to act by written consent, and generally authorize our Board of Directors, without stockholder approval, to issue and fix the rights and preferences of one or more series of preferred stock. In addition, provisions of Delaware law may have a similar effect, such as provisions limiting the ability of certain interested stockholders, as defined under Delaware law, from causing the merger or acquisition of a corporation against the wishes of the Board of Directors. LEGAL AND REGULATORY Our businesses and those of many of our clients have been and continue to be subject to extensive legislation and regulatory scrutiny, and we face the risk of changes to our regulatory environment and business in the future. We are and will continue to be subject to extensive regulation in many jurisdictions around the world, and in particular in the U.S. and the U.K. We face the risk of significant actions by regulatory and taxing authorities in all jurisdictions in which we conduct our businesses and hold investments, which may affect our business, the activity of our market participants, and our results. Among other things, as a result of regulators and tax authorities enforcing existing laws and regulations, we could be censured, fined, prohibited from pursuing certain acquisitions or engaging in some of our business activities, subjected to limitations or conditions on our business activities, including fair, reasonable and nondiscriminatory pricing restrictions, also known as FRAND, and prohibiting the inclusion of, or reliance on, “unfair” terms in certain customer contracts, or subjected to new or substantially higher taxes or other governmental charges in connection with the conduct of our business or with respect to our employees, including settlement payments, interest payments and penalty payments. In many cases, our activities may be subject to overlapping and divergent regulation in different jurisdictions. The adoption of new laws or regulations or changes in enforcement practices applicable to our businesses or those of our clients could adversely affect our ability to compete effectively with other institutions that are not affected in the same way or impact our clients’ overall trading volume through our exchanges and clearing houses and demand for our market data and connectivity offerings, mortgage technology and other services. EU policymakers continue to adopt and propose changes to regulatory intervention related to energy markets, including price limiting mechanisms on exchange traded gas products and strengthening the EU’s market abuse framework for wholesale energy markets. Trading volumes on ICE Endex, the primary European exchange for the benchmark European gas contract, and ICE Clear Europe, which clears ICE Endex contracts, could be impacted. Additionally, in December 2022, a coalition of various nations set the price of Russian crude oil at or below $60 a barrel and is considering whether additional sanctions are appropriate for firms that violate that pricing requirement, which may impact our businesses and those of our clients. There may be additional regulatory changes forthcoming and additional impacts to our business. We are also subject to regulatory risks relating to the mortgage industry, which is heavily regulated in the U.S. Following the acquisition of Black Knight, we have enhanced oversight from the FFIEC and CFPB related to the inclusion of Black Knight's services and product offerings in our portfolio. Changes to existing laws or regulations or adoption of new laws or regulations that affect the residential mortgage industry could reduce residential mortgage volume or otherwise limit the ability of users and participants of our mortgage technology services to operate their businesses, resulting in decreased usage of our solutions. Alternatively, reduced regulatory requirements could also reduce the demand for certain of our products and services, which are intended to enable our customers to satisfy existing regulatory requirements. Potential structural changes to federal agencies integral to the U.S. residential mortgage industry, in particular, those involving the roles of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, in addition to the regulatory roles of the CFPB and other banking regulators, could disrupt the residential mortgage market and have a material adverse effect on our business. Further, as a critical third-party service provider in the mortgage industry, we are subject to supervision and examination by certain regulators, which has resulted in, and will continue to result in, additional operating costs. 31 There is ongoing public concern regarding data privacy and data protection in many jurisdictions in which ICE operates.  Many of those jurisdictions have passed data privacy legislation, with many more contemplating new laws. The laws and regulations related to privacy and data protection are increasing in complexity and number, change frequently and increasingly conflict among the various countries in which we operate, which has resulted in greater compliance risk and cost for us. Regulation of privacy and data protection often times require monitoring of, and changes to, our data practices in regard to the collection, use, disclosure, storage, transfer and/or security of personal and sensitive information. Regulatory activity in the privacy area may also hinder our business, for example, by restricting use or sharing of data, including for marketing or advertising or limiting the use of, limiting our ability to provide certain data to our customers, or otherwise regulating artificial intelligence and machine learning, including the use of algorithms and automated processing in ways that could materially affect our business, or which may lead to significant increases in the cost of compliance. These developments could impact our profitability in the affected jurisdictions, or even make it uneconomical for us to continue to conduct all or certain of our businesses in such jurisdictions, or could cause us to incur significant costs associated with changing our business practices, restructuring our businesses or moving all or certain of our businesses and our employees to other jurisdictions, including liquidating assets or raising capital in a manner that adversely increases our funding costs or otherwise adversely affects our stockholders and creditors. U.S., U.K. and EU legal and regulatory developments, in particular EMIR, EMIR 3.0, U.K. Markets in Financial Instruments Directive II, or U.K. MiFID II, and EU Markets in Financial Instruments Directive II, or EU MiFID II, the U.K BMR and the EU BMR, including each such regulation as incorporated into U.K. law, and the Dodd-Frank Act, have significantly altered and propose to further alter the regulatory framework within which we operate and may adversely affect our competitive position and profitability. These regulatory developments could also cause us to change our business practices, restructure our businesses or move certain of our businesses and employees. The enacted and proposed legal and regulatory changes most likely to affect our businesses are: operational account and clearing requirements for EU market participants in EMIR 3.0, the proposal by U.S. banking regulators to increase bank capital requirements under the Basel III Endgame impacting banking services and activities including client clearing, lending and capital markets activities and the Federal Reserve proposed revisions to the surcharge on global systemically important bank holding companies, access rules under the U.K. BMR and EU BMR, the non-harmonization of margin requirements, access to our benchmarks, U.K. CCP resolution enhancements and maintaining our exchanges’ abilities to operate as SROs with related immunity for the discharge of their regulatory functions. In addition, as the EU and U.K. amend legislation and regulation post-Brexit, there is a risk of increased divergence between the EU and U.K. regulatory regimes. As the operator of global businesses, the lack of harmonization in international financial reform efforts could impact our business as our clearing houses and exchanges are subject to regulation in multiple jurisdictions. The Dodd-Frank Act established enhanced regulatory requirements for non-bank financial institutions designated as “systemically important” by the FSOC. ICE Clear Credit has been designated as a systemically important financial market utility by the FSOC and, as a result, is subject to additional oversight by the CFTC. Compliance with these requirements has resulted in, and will continue to result in, additional operating costs. In 2016, the SEC approved a plan to establish a market-wide consolidated audit trail, or CAT, to improve regulators’ ability to monitor trading activity. In 2018, the first phase of implementation went live and required SRO participants to begin reporting to the CAT. In addition to increased risk in connection with our regulatory obligations and implementation of the CAT could result in significant additional expenditures, which may not be reimbursed. Funding of the implementation and operation of the CAT is ultimately expected to be provided by both the SROs and broker-dealers. To date, however, funding has been provided solely by the SROs, partly in exchange for promissory notes, which increases the risk that SROs, including us, will not be reimbursed for costs expended to date. Due to the replacement of the original plan processor, we recorded promissory note impairment charges of $16 million, $2 million and $16 million in 2023, 2020 and 2019, respectively. The SEC approved a funding model that shares the cost of the CAT between SROs and broker-dealers in September 2023, however, that approval has been challenged in the United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit. If this challenge is successful, there is a risk that SROs will not be reimbursed. As of December 31, 2023, we have accrued approximately $97 million as a receivable in connection with our portion of expenses related to the CAT implementation. In addition, there are additional risks to SRO participants related to regulatory actions or fines in connection with a delay in implementation of the CAT. In addition, in October, the SEC proposed a new rule that would, among other things, prohibit securities exchanges from offering volume-based transaction pricing in connection with the execution of agency orders in exchange-listed securities. If adopted, this prohibition would negatively impact our securities exchanges’ ability to compete with off-exchange trading venues. There is an increased focus on, and scrutiny of, ESG data and ratings providers by regulators and policymakers. Regulators and policymakers have indicated that extension of their regulatory oversight to ESG data service providers is 32 possible. This could result in new or additional regulations applicable to our ESG data products and services which could result in additional operating costs. Legislative proposals in the EU and elsewhere are contemplating new or expanded requirements for data service providers such as conflict of interest and transparency rules, regulation of prices and fees, and imposition of market access rules for third-country providers. These requirements may increase regulatory burden and impact our ability to provide certain data related services in relevant jurisdictions. We are subject to tax laws, regulations, rulings and audits in multiple U.S. and non-U.S. jurisdictions that could have a significant impact on our business and lead to additional expenditures for us or our customers. For example, there have been discussions in various jurisdictions around financial transaction or digital service tax frameworks as well as global minimum corporate income tax rates. Changes to tax frameworks in jurisdictions where we operate significant business, for example, the U.S., the U.K. and the EU have the potential to increase costs to us or to our market participants and discourage participation in the markets we operate. Furthermore, implementation of any new or amended tax laws or regulations could impact our global operations, trading volumes or financial results. Other enacted and proposed legal and regulatory changes not discussed above may also adversely affect our competitive position and profitability. See Item 1 “- Business - Regulation” above for additional information regarding the current and proposed laws and regulations that impact our business, including risks to our business associated with these laws and regulations. Our compliance and risk management methods, as well as our fulfillment of our regulatory obligations, may not be effective, which could lead to enforcement actions by our regulators or other legal proceedings. Our ability to comply with existing and future rules, regulations and laws largely depends on our establishment and maintenance of compliance, audit and reporting systems that can quickly adapt and respond, as well as our ability to attract and retain qualified compliance and other risk management personnel. Regulators periodically review our ability to self-regulate and our compliance with a variety of laws and regulations including self-regulatory standards. Certain of our businesses associated with the NYSE are subject to public notice procedures prior to making changes in operations, policies and procedures. If we fail to comply with any of these obligations, regulators could take a variety of actions that could impair our ability to conduct our business. Our acquisitions expose us to new regulatory requirements. For example, our acquisitions of Ellie Mae, Inc., or Ellie Mae, in 2020 and Black Knight in 2023 expose us to increased regulatory scrutiny from U.S. regulatory bodies that regulate the U.S. residential mortgage industry, including the FFIEC and its member agencies, and the CFPB, among others. Compliance with any such regulatory requirements gives rise to costs and expenses that may be material. Our regulators have broad enforcement powers to censure, fine, issue cease-and-desist orders, embargo future business activity or prohibit us from engaging in some of our businesses. We continue to face the risk of significant intervention by regulatory authorities, including extensive examination and surveillance activity of our business. Any such matters may result in material adverse consequences to our financial condition, operating results or ability to conduct our business, including adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions, restrictions on our business activities or other relief. Our involvement in any such matters, even if the matters are ultimately determined to be in our favor, could also cause significant harm to our reputation and divert management attention from the operation of our business. Further, any settlement, consent order or adverse judgment in connection with any formal or informal proceeding or investigation by government or regulatory agencies may result in additional litigation, investigations or proceedings as other litigants and government or regulatory agencies begin independent reviews of the same businesses or activities. Finally, the implementation of new legislation or regulations, or changes in or unfavorable interpretations of existing regulations by courts or regulatory bodies, could require us to incur significant compliance costs and impede our ability to remain competitive and grow our business. Regulatory developments or court rulings may have an adverse impact on our ability to derive revenue from market data and connectivity fees. Regulatory developments or court rulings could reduce the amount of revenue that we obtain from exchange market data and connectivity fees related to our U.S. equity and options exchanges. With respect to our U.S. equities and equity options exchanges, our ability to assess fees for market data products and certain connectivity fees are subject to review by the SEC. There continue to be opposing industry viewpoints as to the extent that our U.S. equities and equity options exchanges should be able to charge for market data and market access, and the manner in which we set such exchange fees could be reassessed. 33 If new constraints are placed on our ability to charge for market data or market access in the U.S., it could have a negative impact on our revenues. We cannot predict whether, or in what form, any regulatory or other changes will take effect or their impact on our business. A determination by the SEC or a court, for example, that the SEC must link market data fees to marginal costs, take a more active role in the market data rate-setting process, or reduce the current levels of market data fees, could have an adverse effect on our market data revenues. Separately, our European exchanges are currently authorized to sell trade information on a non-discriminatory basis at a reasonable cost. This regulatory position could be modified or interpreted by the European Commission or future European court decisions in a manner that could have an adverse effect on our European market data revenues. In addition, the FCA and IOSCO have both issued consultations to explore access to market data in financial markets. The results of these consultations may lead to a regulatory response that could affect our business. Similar to the U.S., if new constraints are placed on our ability to charge for market data or market access in the U.K. or other jurisdictions, it could have a negative impact on our revenues. The uncertainty surrounding the U.K. and EU regulatory frameworks following the U.K.'s exit from the EU, commonly referred to as Brexit, could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Brexit has created political and economic uncertainty and instability in the global markets, particularly in the U.K. and EU. Political and economic uncertainty surrounding the future relationship of the U.K. and EU could lead to certain macroeconomic conditions that adversely affect our business. The long-term effects of Brexit will depend, in part, on the agreement the U.K. made to retain access to EU markets. The EU and U.K. continue to implement regulatory proposals related to the provision of financial services and the administration of benchmarks and indices in the EU and U.K. related to Brexit. The U.K. and EU have agreed to a trade and cooperation agreement which governs the EU-U.K. relationship after the completion of the U.K.’s exit from the EU. The U.K.-EU Brexit deal does not provide a transition period for financial services, or any new arrangements to replace the existing “passport.” This leaves both the U.K. and EU to address matters of access in financial services through declarations of equivalence under existing equivalence regimes contained in U.K. and EU law and through domestic laws. In February 2022, the European Commission extended its temporary equivalence decision for U.K. CCPs until June 30, 2025. ICE Clear Europe has been recognized by ESMA as a third-country CCP in accordance with EMIR and in March 2022, ESMA extended ICE Clear Europe's temporary recognition and tiering decision to June 2025. The U.K. launched HM Treasury's Wholesale Markets Review to improve the competitiveness of the U.K. financial services sector and in March 2022 published its consultation response. In June 2023, the FSMA 2023 was enacted and makes significant changes to U.K. financial services regulation and incorporates considerations of the Wholesale Markets Review. The FSMA 2023 expands the U.K.’s existing resolution regime for CCPs and enables the BOE to take full control of a CCP when necessary without relying on its existing powers, and permits the BOE to use a number of tools without reliance on the CCP’s rulebook. In December 2023, the FCA published a consultation proposing to revise the U.K. commodity derivatives framework. The FSMA 2023 reformed the U.K.’s commodity derivatives regulatory regime including revoking the MIFID II position limit requirements and transferring the powers to set position limits and controls from the FCA to the operator of trading venues. The FCA proposal requires U.K. trading venues to set position limits for critical and related contracts, to establish accountability thresholds and to report enhanced position data. In December 2022, the European Commission published new legislative proposals on clearing services amending EMIR and provisions in the framework. The European Commission aims to encourage clearing in the EU and reduce exposure to non-EU CCPs through adding an operational account requirement, which could require EU-based firms to clear a proportion of their derivatives business at an EU CCP. These proposals and those mentioned above could impact our business. As a result of the U.K. and EU trade and cooperation agreement not providing free trade arrangements for financial services, any equivalence determinations or any further transition period for financial services could include restrictions on access to our services by persons located in the EU or make access more expensive, which could adversely affect our operations and profitability or even make it uneconomical for us to continue to conduct all or certain of our businesses in such jurisdictions. The consequences of Brexit and the terms of the trade and cooperation agreement could also cause us to incur significant costs associated with changing our business practices, restructuring our businesses or moving certain 34 of our businesses and our employees to other jurisdictions. See Item 1 “- Business - Regulation” above for additional information regarding Brexit, including risks to our business associated with Brexit. Risks relating to the administration of benchmarks and indices, and changes to, cessations of, and the replacement of, or transition from, benchmarks and indices may result in legal risks and could adversely affect our business. Certain of our subsidiaries produce and license multiple benchmarks and indices across asset classes, which are used globally and are referenced in certain of our trading and clearing products. To ensure continued trading and clearing in these benchmark-related products, and the continued licensing and use of these benchmarks and indices, our subsidiaries must be able to demonstrate that these benchmarks and indices are determined with integrity and are not readily subject to manipulation, and must also continue to evolve these benchmarks and indices as necessary to maintain their reliability and relevance and continue to administer these benchmarks and indices in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Any failures, negative publicity or lawsuits related to our subsidiaries' administration of benchmarks and indices could result in a loss of confidence in the administration of these benchmarks and indices and could harm our business and our reputation. Changes to, cessations of, and the replacement of or transition from, our subsidiaries' benchmarks and indices or any other changes or reforms to the determination or administration of such benchmarks and indices, could result in legal risks, risks to our reputation, and have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition and operating results. Our subsidiary, IBA, is the administrator of LIBOR and various other global benchmarks. In July 2017, the FCA stated its intention that it would no longer be necessary to sustain LIBOR through its influence or legal powers beyond 2021. As a result, regulators in multiple jurisdictions encouraged market participants to transition from using LIBOR to alternative reference rates. The publication of most LIBOR settings ceased after December 31, 2021 with certain others ceasing after June 30, 2023. The FCA required IBA to continue to publish certain LIBOR settings under a changed "synthetic" methodology for a temporary period and intends that all remaining “synthetic” settings will cease, with the remaining GBP setting ceasing after publication on March 28, 2024, and the remaining USD settings ceasing after publication on September 30, 2024. Any LIBOR settings published under a “synthetic” methodology are not representative of the underlying market or economic reality the setting was intended to measure as those terms are used in the U.K. BMR. Any failures, negative publicity or lawsuits related to our IBA’s administration of LIBOR, could result in a loss of confidence in our subsidiaries’ administration of benchmarks and indices and could harm our business and our reputation. See Item 1 “- Business - Regulation” above for additional information regarding the LIBOR transition, including risks to our business associated with the LIBOR transition. Under the U.K. BMR, the use of “synthetic” LIBOR settings by U.K.-supervised entities in certain regulated contracts and instruments is either prohibited or subject to FCA permission. The use of “synthetic” LIBOR settings in jurisdictions outside the U.K. and by entities subject to the oversight of other regulatory authorities may also be restricted or prohibited by law in those jurisdictions and by the requirements of such regulatory authorities. We continue to monitor industry and regulatory developments in relation to the LIBOR transition and cessation and the resulting impacts on our business and on the markets using interest rate benchmarks today. In addition, certain authorities, including those in the U.S., the U.K. and the EU, have issued consultations to gather feedback on index provider businesses or are undertaking reviews of current regulations. The results of these consultations or reviews may lead to a regulatory response that could affect our business. Additional regulation on index providers in the U.S., U.K., or other jurisdictions, could have a negative impact on our revenues. We may face liability for content contained in our data products and services. We have been, and may in the future be, subject to claims for breach of contract, defamation, libel, copyright or trademark infringement, fraud or negligence or based on other theories of liability, in each case relating to the data, articles, commentary, ratings, information or other content we distribute in our financial data services. If such data or other content or information that we distribute has errors, is delayed or has design defects, we could be subject to liability or our reputation could suffer. We could also be subject to claims based upon the content that is accessible from our corporate website or those websites that we own and operate through links to other websites. Use of our products and services as part of the investment process creates the risk that clients, or the parties whose assets are managed by our clients, may pursue claims against us for significant amounts. Any such claim, even if the outcome were ultimately favorable to us, could involve a significant commitment of our management, personnel, financial and other resources. Such claims and 35 lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results and a negative impact on our reputation. In addition, we license and redistribute data and content from various third-party sources and the terms of these licenses change frequently. Our third-party data and content suppliers may audit our use of and our clients’ use of and payment for data and content from time to time in the ordinary course of business, including audits currently underway. Such third-party data and content suppliers have asserted and may in the future assert that we or our clients owe additional amounts under the terms of the applicable license agreements, that we inappropriately distributed the third-party data or that we or our clients used the data or content in a manner that exceeded the scope of the applicable license agreement or without a license agreement. In some instances, where we have certain commercial relationships with third-parties, we have assumed the responsibility for this third-party source liability. We have and expect to continue to spend and allocate resources to develop and acquire the use of technology and other intellectual property rights to manage these risks and track third-party data usage, but we cannot be assured that we will not incur liability. The costs and resources required to investigate any allegations could be material, and we may still be required to pay damages to or make unexpected large settlement payments to these data and content suppliers, which could also give rise to reputational harm. We are subject to significant litigation and liability risks. Many aspects of our business, and the businesses of our market participants and data and mortgage technology customers, involve substantial risks of liability. These risks include, among others, potential liability from disputes over terms of a trade and the claim that a system failure or delay caused monetary loss to a participant or that an unauthorized trade occurred. For example, dissatisfied market participants that have traded on our electronic platforms or those on whose behalf such participants have traded may make claims regarding the quality of trade execution, or allege improperly confirmed or settled trades, abusive trading practices, security and confidentiality breaches, mismanagement or even fraud against us or our participants. In addition, because of the ease and speed with which sizable trades can be executed on our electronic platform, participants can lose substantial amounts by inadvertently entering trade orders or by entering them inaccurately. A large number of significant error trades could result in participant dissatisfaction and a decline in participant willingness to trade in our electronic markets. In addition, we are subject to legal disputes that could result in the payment of fines, penalties or damages and could expose us to additional liability in the future. See Item 3 "Legal Proceedings" in this Annual Report for a general description of our legal proceedings and claims and Note 16 to our consolidated financial statements and related notes, which are included elsewhere in this Annual Report, for a summary of specific legal proceedings. The outcome of any of these legal proceedings that remain unresolved cannot be determined and adverse rulings in these matters could impact our financial condition and continued operations. Further, we could incur significant expenses defending the claims mentioned above and any future claims, even those without merit, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. An adverse resolution of any lawsuit or claim against us, including those we are involved with due to acquisition activity, may require us to pay substantial damages or impose restrictions on how we conduct business, either of which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. In addition, we may have to establish accruals for those matters in circumstances when a loss contingency is considered probable and the related amount is reasonably estimable. Any such accruals may be adjusted as circumstances change. OPERATIONAL AND LIQUIDITY Our systems and those of our third-party service providers are vulnerable to cyberattacks, hacking and other cybersecurity risks, which could result in wrongful manipulation, disclosure, destruction, or use of our information or that of a third party, or which could make our customers unable or reluctant to use our electronic platforms or other products and services. The secure transmission of confidential information and the ability to reliably transact on our electronic platforms and provide financial data services are critical elements of our operations. Some of our products and services involve the storage and transmission of proprietary information and sensitive or confidential client and other data, including client portfolio information or personally identifiable information. If anyone gains improper access to our electronic platforms, networks or databases, they may be able to steal, publish, delete or modify our confidential information or that of a third party. Breaches of our cybersecurity measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us, our clients or our customers, including the potential loss or disclosure of such information or data could expose us, our customers or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation, regulatory action and potential liability for us, damage our brand and 36 reputation or otherwise harm our business. Our networks and those of our customers, third-party service providers and external market infrastructures may be vulnerable to compromise, unauthorized access, security technology failure, malware, social engineering, denial of service attacks, terrorism, ransomware attacks, supply chain attacks, firewall or encryption failures or other security problems resulting in loss of data integrity, information disclosure, unavailability or fraud. The financial services industry has been targeted for purposes of political protest, activism and financial gain and our role in the global marketplace places us at greater risk than other public companies for cyberattack and other information security threats. Further, former employees of companies in the financial sector have misappropriated trade secrets or stolen source code in the past and we could be a target for such illegal acts in the future. There also may be system or network disruptions if new or upgraded systems are defective or not tested and installed properly. Although we have not been subject to cyberattacks or other cyber incidents that have had a material impact on our operations or financial condition, we have from time to time experienced cybersecurity events including distributed denial of service, or DDoS, attacks, malware infections, phishing, web attacks, zero day and/or emerging vulnerabilities with known exploits and other information technology incidents that are typical for a financial services company of our size. For example, we experienced DDoS attempts, brand misuse, and phishing attempts directed toward employee systems and personal email accounts during 2023. While we operate an Information Security program that is designed to prevent, detect, track and mitigate cyber incidents and that has detected and mitigated such incidents in the past, we cannot assure you that these measures will be sufficient to protect our business against future attacks. Any such attacks could result in reputational damage, cause system failures or delays that could cause us to lose customers, cause us to experience lower current and future trading volumes or incur significant liabilities or have a negative impact on our competitive position. In addition, given the increasing complexity and sophistication of the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or disable or degrade systems, a cyberattack could occur and persist for an extended period of time before being detected, and we may not anticipate these acts or respond adequately or timely. The extent of a particular cyber incident and the steps that we may need to take to investigate the incident may not be immediately clear, and it may take a significant amount of time before such investigation can be completed and full and reliable information about the incident is known. While such an investigation is ongoing, we may not necessarily know the extent of the harm or how best to remediate it, which may compound damages before the incident is discovered or remediated. Additionally, as threats continue to evolve and increase, and as the regulatory environment and regulations related to information security, disclosure of cyber attacks, data collection and use, and privacy becomes increasingly rigorous, we may be required to devote significant additional resources to modify and enhance our security controls and to identify, remediate and disclose any security vulnerabilities, which could adversely impact our net income. Further, cybersecurity threats to, and incidents involving, vendors and other third parties who support our activities - particularly those with less-sophisticated defenses - could impact us. For example, although we did not experience any material impacts from the MOVEit security vulnerability that was widely publicized in May 2023, and exploited in various forms, we cannot assure you that we will not experience future events that may be material. Our business has in the past been, and may in the future be, harmed by computer and communication systems failures and delays. Our business depends on the integrity, reliability and security of our infrastructure which is highly dependent on our computer and communication systems. Our customers rely on us for the delivery of time-sensitive, up-to-date and high-quality financial market data, analytics and related solutions. Our timely, reliable delivery of high-quality products and services is dependent upon an array of technical production processes that enable our content delivery platforms. Our redundant systems or disaster recovery plans, including our ability to recover from the loss of one of our primary data centers, may prove to be inadequate in the event of a systems failure or cybersecurity breach. Our systems, or those of our third-party providers, may fail or be shut down or, due to capacity constraints, may operate slowly, causing one or more of the following or other issues: • unanticipated disruption in service to our participants; • slower response time and delays in our participants’ trade execution and processing; • failed settlement by participants to whom we provide trade confirmation or clearing services; • incomplete or inaccurate accounting, recording or processing of trades; • failure to complete the clearing house margin settlement process resulting in significant financial risk; • distribution of inaccurate or untimely market data; • disruption to ICE Mortgage Technology and our loan origination and servicing systems; and • financial loss to us or those who depend on our systems and data. 37 We have experienced system failures in the past due to telecommunication failures and hardware and software malfunctions and defects, and could experience future system failures due to power or telecommunications failures, human error on our part or on the part of our vendors or participants, natural disasters, fire, sabotage, hardware or software malfunctions or defects, computer viruses, cyberattacks, intentional acts of vandalism or terrorism and similar events. For example, on January 24, 2023, due to a system issue resulting from a manual error in configuring relevant systems at the start of the trading day, the NYSE did not conduct opening auctions in a subset of listed securities. Some of the resulting trades were later reversed under NYSE rules, and NYSE members otherwise impacted by the event submitted claims for losses for which the NYSE provided appropriate compensation under its rules. NYSE may also be potentially subject to additional claims from the SEC or unknown third parties as a result of this event. This January 24, 2023 NYSE system issue, and other system issues in the future, could result in damage to our business reputation and participant dissatisfaction with our electronic platform, which could prompt participants to trade elsewhere or expose us to litigation or regulatory sanctions. As a consequence, our business, financial condition and operating results could suffer materially. Our regulated business operations generally require that our trade execution and communications systems be able to handle anticipated present and future peak trading volume. Heavy use of computer systems during peak trading times or at times of unusual market volatility could cause those systems to operate slowly or even to fail for periods of time. However, we cannot assure you that our estimates of future trading volume will be accurate or that our systems will always be able to accommodate actual trading volume without failure or degradation of performance. If we cannot increase the capacity and capabilities of our systems to accommodate an increasing volume of transactions and to execute our business strategy, our ability to maintain or expand our businesses could be adversely affected. An interruption or cessation of an important service, data or content supplied by any third party, or the loss of an exclusive license, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We depend on a number of suppliers, such as online service providers, hosting service and software providers, data processors, data centers, software and hardware vendors, banks, local and regional utility providers, and telecommunications companies for elements of our trading, clearing, data services, mortgage technology applications and other systems. We rely on access to certain data used in our business through licenses with third parties, and we rely on a large international telecommunications company for the provision of hosting services. We also depend on third-party suppliers for data and content, including data received from certain competitors, clients, various government and public record services and financial institutions, used in our products and services. Some of this data is exclusive to particular suppliers and may not be obtained from other suppliers. In addition, our data suppliers could enter into exclusive contracts with our competitors without our knowledge. The general trend toward industry consolidation increases the risk that these services may not be available to us in the future. If these companies were to experience difficulties, discontinue providing services to us for any reason or be unable to or fail to provide the type of service agreed to for any reason, we would likely experience significant disruption to our business and may be subject to litigation by our clients, increased regulatory scrutiny or regulatory fines or damage to our reputation. It could require a significant amount of time and additional resources to transition to new third-party service providers or to enter into new commercial arrangements in order to offset loss of services to our clients. Our third-party data suppliers perform audits on us from time to time in the ordinary course of business to determine if data we license for redistribution has been properly accounted for in accordance with the terms of the applicable license agreement. As a result of these audits, we have incurred and may in the future incur additional expenses. Many of our clients also rely on third parties to provide them with systems necessary to access our trading platform. If these companies were to discontinue providing services to our clients for any reason, we may experience a loss of revenue associated with our clients’ inability to transact with our businesses. We hold exclusive licenses to list various index futures and options contracts. In the future, litigation or regulatory action may limit the right of owners to grant exclusive licenses for index futures and options contracts trading to a single exchange, and our competitors may succeed in providing economically similar products in a manner or jurisdiction not otherwise covered by our exclusive license. MiFID II introduced a harmonized approach to the licensing of benchmarks in Europe and the legislation requires non-discriminatory access to any benchmarks registered in Europe. If unlicensed trading of any index product where we hold an exclusive license were permitted, we could lose trading volume for these products which would adversely affect our revenues associated with the license and the related index products. Our success largely depends on key personnel, including our senior management, and having adequate succession plans in place. We may not be able to attract, retain and develop the highly skilled employees we need to support our business, which could harm our business. Our future performance depends, in large part, on the continued services of our senior management and other key personnel, including our ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel. Competition for key personnel in the various 38 localities and business segments in which we operate is intense. Our ability to attract and retain key personnel, in particular senior management, will be dependent on a number of factors, including prevailing market conditions and compensation packages offered by companies competing for the same talent. Current economic, market, social, and political conditions and demand for hybrid working options have increased talent risk, which has led to higher employee attrition and made recruitment for certain positions more difficult, and could lead to a loss of top performers and make it more difficult to fill key positions. For example, our in-office requirements, as well as the location of our offices, and our remote working arrangements may not meet the needs or expectations of our employees, including senior management or other key employees, or may not be viewed as competitive, which could negatively impact our ability to attract and retain highly skilled employees. In addition, we operate globally and geopolitical events or conflicts in the countries or regions in which we operate could lead to physical risks to our personnel and disruption to business continuity that could negatively impact our ability to execute our business strategy. There is no guarantee that we will have the continued service of key employees who we rely upon to execute our business strategy and identify and pursue strategic opportunities and initiatives. The loss of the services of any of our senior management or other key personnel, or our inability to attract highly qualified senior management and other key personnel, could harm our business. In particular, we have to incur costs to replace senior officers or other key employees who leave, and our ability to execute our business strategy could be impaired if we are unable to replace such persons in a timely manner or at all. Effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. Failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. Further, changes in our management team may be disruptive to our business, and any failure to successfully integrate key new hires or promoted employees could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We currently have a substantial amount of outstanding indebtedness which could adversely affect our financial condition and operations and restrict our activities or our ability to satisfy our debt service obligations. As of December 31, 2023, we had $22.6 billion of outstanding debt, inclusive of approximately $5 billion of senior notes and approximately $3.6 billion of commercial paper and term loans that we incurred in connection with the Black Knight acquisition to finance a portion of the cash consideration in the merger and related transactions and inclusive of the approximately $1 billion of Black Knight’s outstanding senior notes that we assumed upon closing of the Black Knight acquisition. This level of indebtedness could have important consequences to our business, including making it more difficult to satisfy our debt service obligations, increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions, limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate, placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our peers and restricting us from pursuing certain business opportunities. As we use our available resources to reduce and refinance our consolidated debt, our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry in which we operate and our ability to pursue future business opportunities may be further restrained. In addition, the terms of our debt facilities contain affirmative and negative covenants, including a leverage ratio test and certain limitations on the incurrence of additional debt or the creation of liens and other matters. Further, a portion of our outstanding debt has historically been and may continue to be in commercial paper, which is subject to interest rate changes. Rising interest rates will result in an increase in our interest expense. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future, which could materially affect our financial condition. Our long-term and short-term debt is currently rated by Moody’s Investor Services and Standard & Poor’s. These ratings agencies regularly evaluate us and our credit ratings based on a number of quantitative and qualitative factors, including our financial strength and conditions affecting the financial services industry, generally. Our credit ratings remain subject to change at any time, and it is possible that a ratings agency may take action to downgrade our credit ratings in the future. In particular, our inability to sustain our targeted level of debt on a consolidated basis may result in a downgrade of our credit ratings. A significant downgrade of our credit ratings in the future could impact customers’ willingness to use our clearing houses, make parties less willing to do business with us, and could negatively impact our ability to access the capital markets and increase the cost of our commercial paper and any future debt funding we may obtain. COMPETITION; REPUTATIONAL HARM We face intense competition, and if we fail to keep up with rapid changes in technology and client preferences, it could negatively impact our competitive position. We face intense competition in all aspects of our business and our competitors, both domestic and international, are numerous. We currently compete with: 39 • regulated, diversified futures exchanges that offer trading in a variety of asset classes similar to those offered by us, such as energy, agriculture, equity and equity index, credit, and interest rate derivatives markets and foreign exchange; • exchanges offering listing and trading of cash equities, ETFs, closed-end funds and other structured products similar to those offered by us; • market data and information vendors, and financial firm consortia and single financial institutions selling such data and information; • providers of digital solutions for the U.S. residential mortgage industry, including technology providers for loan origination, closing solutions, and other ancillary solutions, and loan servicing; • interdealer brokers active in the global credit derivatives markets; • existing and newly formed electronic trading platforms, service providers and exchanges, some of which do not receive the same regulatory scrutiny as established market places; • other clearing houses; and • consortia of our customers, members or market participants that may work together to achieve more favorable terms or pool their trading activity to establish new exchanges, trading platforms or clearing facilities. Trends towards the globalization of capital markets have resulted in greater mobility of capital, greater international participation in markets and increased competition among markets in different geographical areas. Competition in the market for derivatives trading and clearing and in the market for cash equity listings, trading and execution have intensified as a result of consolidation, as the markets become more global in connection with the increase in electronic trading platforms and the desire by existing exchanges to diversify their product offerings. Finally, many of our competitors are our largest customers or are owned by our customers and may prioritize their internalization and ATS businesses ahead of their exchange-based market making business. Some of our competitors may have greater capital and resources, offer a wide range of products and services or operate under less stringent regulatory regimes than we do. In the mortgage technology sector, we compete against other technology providers for loan origination, closing solutions, and loan servicing, as well as the many ancillary products and services we offer to the U.S. residential mortgage industry. We also compete with traditional methods of exchanging data and documents among mortgage industry participants, such as email, facsimile, phone, courier, and mail. There is vigorous competition among providers of mortgage technology services, and we may be unsuccessful in differentiating our services to the extent necessary to effectively compete and may not succeed in convincing potential customers using other services or methods to switch to ours. We also face pricing competition in many areas of our business. A decline in our fees due to competitive pressure or regulatory changes, the inability to successfully launch new products or the loss of customers due to competition could lower our revenues, which would adversely affect our profitability. For example, our data service offerings have benefited from a high renewal rate in its subscription-based services, but we cannot assure you that this will continue. We also cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to expand our product offerings, modify the pricing for our products or retain our current customers or attract new customers. If we are not able to compete successfully, our business could be materially impacted, including our ability to remain as an operating entity. Our success depends on our ability to maintain and expand our product offerings, our customer base and our technology. To remain competitive, we must continue to enhance and improve the responsiveness, functionality, accessibility and reliability of our electronic platforms and our proprietary and acquired technology. The financial services industry is characterized by rapid technological change, change in use patterns, change in client preferences, frequent product and service introductions, the emergence of new industry standards and practices and increased consolidation through mergers and acquisitions activity that results in new competitors or expanded product offerings by current competitors. For example, financial institutions are investing significantly in new technologies involving artificial intelligence and machine learning to deliver solutions at lower prices, more efficiently or more conveniently. The development and use of these types of new technologies and other industry changes could render our existing proprietary technology uncompetitive or obsolete. We cannot assure you that we will successfully implement new technologies or adapt our proprietary technology to our clients’ requirements or emerging industry standards in a timely and cost-effective manner. Any failure to remain abreast of industry standards in technology and to be responsive to client preferences could cause our market share to decline and negatively impact our results. 40 Damage to our reputation could damage our business. Our business is highly competitive and our customers have options on where to conduct their business. Our management team and business operations benefit from being highly regarded in our industry. Maintaining our reputation is critical to attracting and retaining customers and investors and for maintaining our relationships with our regulators. Negative publicity regarding our company, especially given the speed with which false information can be spread through social media channels, or actual, alleged or perceived issues regarding our products or services, operations, risk management, compliance with regulations, political affiliations or management team could give rise to reputational risk which could significantly harm our existing business and business prospects. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY Our use of "open source" software could negatively impact our ability to sell our products and services and subject us to litigation. We use some open-source software in our technology, most often as small components within a larger product or service, to augment algorithms, functionalities or libraries we create, and we may use more open-source software in the future. Open-source code is also contained in some third-party software we rely on. We could be subject to suits by parties claiming breach of the terms of the license for such open-source software. The terms of many open-source licenses are ambiguous and have not been interpreted by U.S. or other courts, and these licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products and services. Further, open-source licensors generally do not provide technology support, maintenance, warranties or assurance of title or controls on the origin of the software, which can also lead to greater risks than use of third-party commercial software. A failure to protect our intellectual property rights, or allegations that we have infringed the intellectual property rights of others, could adversely affect our business. Our business is dependent on proprietary technology and other intellectual property that we own or license from third parties, including trademarks, service marks, trade names, trade secrets, copyrights and patents. We cannot assure you that the steps that we have taken or will take in the future will prevent misappropriation of our intellectual property. Additionally, we may be unable to detect the misappropriation or unauthorized use of our confidential information and intellectual property. Our failure to adequately protect our intellectual property could harm our reputation and affect our ability to compete effectively. Further, we have resorted to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights in the past, and may need to do so in the future, which requires significant financial and managerial resources. In addition, our competitors, as well as other companies and individuals, have obtained, and may obtain in the future, intellectual property rights, including patents, related to the types of products and services we offer or plan to offer. We cannot assure you that we are or will be aware of all intellectual property rights that may pose a risk of infringement by our products and services. As a result, we have in the past faced and may in the future face allegations that we have infringed the intellectual property rights of third parties which may be costly for us to defend against. If one or more of our products or services is found to infringe intellectual property rights held by others, we may be subject to lawsuits or required to stop developing or marketing the products or services, obtain licenses to develop and market the products or services from the owners of the intellectual property or redesign the products or services in such a way as to avoid infringing the third-party intellectual property. We also have in the past, and could in the future, be required to pay damages if we are found to infringe intellectual property rights held by others, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. We cannot assess the extent to which we may be required in the future to obtain licenses with respect to intellectual property rights held by others, whether such licenses would be available or, if available, whether we would be able to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms. If we were unable to obtain such licenses, we may not be able to redesign our products or services at a reasonable cost to avoid infringement, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements for many reasons. See the factors set forth under the heading “ Forward Looking Statements” at the beginning of Part 1 of this Annual Report and in Item 1(A) under the heading “Risk Factors.” For discussion related to the results of operations and changes in financial condition for 2022 compared to 2021 refer to Part II, Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in our 2022 Annual Report on Form 10-K, which was filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission on February 2, 2023. Overview We are a leading global provider of technology and data to a broad range of customers including financial institutions, corporations and government entities. These products, which span major asset classes including futures, equities, fixed income and U.S. residential mortgages, provide our customers with access to mission critical tools that are designed to increase asset class transparency and workflow efficiency. The majority of our identifiable assets are located in the U.S. and U.K. We report our results in the following three segments: • Exchanges: We operate regulated marketplace technology for the listing, trading and clearing of a broad array of derivatives contracts and financial securities as well as data and connectivity services related to those venues. • Fixed Income and Data Services: We provide fixed income pricing, reference data, indices, analytics and execution services as well as global CDS clearing and multi-asset class data delivery technology. • Mortgage Technology: We provide a technology platform that offers customers comprehensive, digital workflow tools that aim to address inefficiencies and mitigate risks that exist in the U.S. residential mortgage market life cycle from application through closing, servicing and the secondary market. Recent Developments Acquisition of Black Knight, Inc. On September 5, 2023, we acquired Black Knight, Inc., or Black Knight, a software, data and analytics company that serves the housing finance continuum, including real estate data, mortgage lending and servicing, as well as the secondary markets. Pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of May 4, 2022, among ICE, Sand Merger Sub Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of ICE, or Sub, and Black Knight, which we refer to as the “merger 45 agreement,” Sub merged with and into Black Knight, which we refer to as the “merger,” with Black Knight surviving as a wholly owned subsidiary of ICE. The aggregate transaction consideration was approximately $11.8 billion, or $76 per share of Black Knight common stock, with cash comprising 90% of the value of the aggregate transaction consideration and shares of our common stock comprising 10% of the value of the aggregate transaction consideration. The aggregate cash component of the transaction consideration was $10.5 billion, and the number of our shares issued was based on the market price of our common stock and the average of the volume weighted averages of the trading prices of our common stock on each of the ten consecutive trading days ending three trading days prior to the closing of the merger. We expect that this transaction will build on our position as a provider of end-to-end electronic workflow solutions for the rapidly evolving U.S. residential mortgage industry. We believe the Black Knight ecosystem adds value for clients of all sizes across the mortgage and real estate lifecycles by helping organizations lower costs, increase efficiencies, grow their businesses, and reduce risk. On September 14, 2023, or the Divestiture Date, in connection with the merger agreement, we sold Black Knight’s Optimal Blue and Empower loan origination system, or LOS, businesses, or the Divestitures, to subsidiaries of Constellation Software, Inc. The cash proceeds from the Divestitures were $241 million. The structure of the Optimal Blue transaction also included a Promissory Note with a face value of $500 million issued by the purchaser to Black Knight, as a subsidiary of ICE, at the closing of the transaction. As described in Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report, the Promissory Note was valued at $235 million on the Divestiture Date. Pursuant to the Agreement Containing Consent Orders entered into between the FTC and ICE and Black Knight, the Promissory Note was required to be sold within six months of the Divestiture Date. On February 7, 2024, the FTC approved the buyer of the Promissory Note and the proceeds of the Promissory Note sale will be paid to Black Knight in the near future. As we elected the fair value option for the Promissory Note, we are required to mark the asset to fair value each reporting period. For subsequent measurement as of December 31, 2023, we wrote down the value of the Promissory Note, resulting in a fair value loss of $160 million. Global Market Conditions Our results of operations are affected by global economic conditions, including macroeconomic conditions and geopolitical events or conflicts. Since 2022, macroeconomic conditions, including rising interest rates, inflation and significant market volatility, along with geopolitical concerns, including the conflicts in Ukraine, Israel and Gaza, have created ongoing uncertainty and volatility in the global economy and resulted in a dynamic operating environment. Our business has been impacted positively and negatively by these global economic conditions. For instance, due to market volatility and rising interest rates, we have seen increased trading across a number of our products, such as interest rate and equity futures, credit default swaps and bonds. Conversely, increases in mortgage interest rates in 2022 and 2023 have resulted in reduced consumer and investor demand for mortgages and adversely impacted the transaction-based revenues in our Mortgage Technology segment. If mortgage rates remain high or further increase, or if banks change their mortgage lending practices, our Mortgage Technology segment revenues may be further impacted. From an operational perspective, our businesses, including our exchanges, clearing houses, listings venues, data services businesses and mortgage platforms, have not suffered a material negative impact as a result of these events in Ukraine, Israel, Gaza and surrounding regions. We expect the macroeconomic environment to remain dynamic in the near-term, and we continue to monitor macroeconomic conditions, including interest rates, the inflationary environment, geopolitical events and military conflicts, including repercussions from the conflicts in Ukraine, Israel and Gaza and the impact that any of the foregoing may have on the global economy and on our business. Throughout 2023, we have closely monitored the credit worthiness of our counterparties and investment agents during the recent banking sector events, scrutinized counterparties directly impacted and monitored for any potential contagion. We did not suffer any material negative impact from the banking sector events that occurred in early 2023. In light of the current and expected macroeconomic environment we will continue to closely monitor credit worthiness of our counterparties, clearing members and our financial service providers and take risk management measures in line with established risk management frameworks. Tax Policy Changes The Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, or OECD, Global Anti-Base Erosion Pillar Two minimum tax rules, or Pillar Two, which generally provide for a minimum effective tax rate of 15%, are intended to apply to tax years beginning in 2024. In 2023, the OECD issued administrative guidance providing transitional safe harbor rules concerning the implementation of the Pillar Two framework, which will apply to fiscal years ending on or before December 31, 2026. The EU member states and many other countries, including the U.K., have committed to implement or have already 46 enacted legislation adopting the Pillar Two rules. We are monitoring developments and evaluating the impacts of these new rules on our tax rate, including our ability to qualify for the safe harbor rules as implemented by each jurisdiction, however, we do not expect a material impact to our effective tax rate given our current tax profile. 47 Consolidated Financial Highlights The following summarizes our results and significant changes in our consolidated financial performance for the periods presented (dollars in millions, except per share amounts): (1) Operating income/(loss) from our Mortgage Technology segment was ($276 million) and $57 million in 2023 and 2022, respectively. (2) The adjusted figures exclude items that are not reflective of our ongoing core operations and business performance. Adjusted net income attributable to ICE is presented net of taxes. These adjusted numbers are not calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP. See “—Non-GAAP Financial Measures” below. 48 *Percentage changes in the table above deemed "n/a" are not meaningful. (1) We define recurring revenues as the portion of our revenues that are generally predictable, stable, and can be expected to occur at regular intervals in the future with a relatively high degree of certainty and visibility. We define transaction revenues as those associated with a more specific point-in-time service, such as a trade execution. (2) The adjusted figures exclude items that are not reflective of our ongoing core operations and business performance. Adjusted net income attributable to ICE and adjusted diluted earnings per share attributable to ICE common stockholders are presented net of taxes. These adjusted figures are not calculated in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, or GAAP. See “- Non-GAAP Financial Measures” below. (3) We believe these non-GAAP liquidity measures provide useful information to management and investors to analyze cash resources generated from our operations. We believe that free cash flow is useful as one of the bases for comparing our performance with our competitors and demonstrates our ability to convert the reinvestment of capital expenditures and capitalized software development costs required to maintain and grow our business. We believe that adjusted free cash flow eliminates the impact of timing differences related to the payment of Section 31 fees. These figures are not calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP. See “—Non-GAAP Liquidity Measures” below. • Revenues, less transaction-based expenses, increased $696 million in 2023 from 2022. The increase in revenues includes $17 million in favorable foreign exchange effects arising from fluctuations in the U.S. dollar in 2023 as compared to 2022. • Revenues, less transaction-based expenses, increased $146 million in 2022 from 2021. The increase in revenues includes $115 million in unfavorable foreign exchange effects arising from fluctuations in the U.S. dollar in 2022 as compared to 2021. • Operating expenses increased $640 million in 2023 from 2022. The increase in operating expenses includes $4 million in unfavorable foreign exchange effects arising from fluctuations in the U.S. dollar in 2023 as compared to 2022. • Operating expenses decreased $43 million in 2022 from 2021. The decrease in operating expenses includes $38 million in favorable foreign exchange effects arising from fluctuations in the U.S. dollar in 2022 as compared to 2021. • Other income/(expense), net, in 2023 primarily includes interest income of $319 million, interest expense of $808 million, our equity earnings in OCC of $16 million, estimated equity losses in our investment in Bakkt of $135 million, a fair value loss of $160 million related to the Black Knight Promissory Note, an impairment related to our CAT loan receivable of $16 million, FX remeasurement losses of $12 million, and a loss on the sale of the Dun & 49 Bradstreet investment of $3 million, net of dividends received, that we acquired through the acquisition of Black Knight. • Other income/(expense), net, in 2022 primarily includes interest income of $108 million, interest expense of $616 million, our share of estimated equity method investment losses and an impairment charge on our investment in Bakkt to its fair value of $1.4 billion, a net gain on the sale of our Euroclear plc, or Euroclear, stake of $41 million, our equity earnings in OCC of $15 million, and FX remeasurement losses of $9 million. • The 16% effective tax rate in 2023 was below the U.S. corporate income tax rate primarily driven by the following factors: favorable audit settlements for historical years, favorable state apportionment changes, and the application of the high-tax exception to Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income. These benefits were partially offset by the impact of the U.K. corporate income tax increase from 19% to 25% effective April 1, 2023, and the tax impact of certain non-deductible Black Knight acquisition costs. • The 17% effective tax rate in 2022 was below the U.S. corporate income tax rate primarily driven by the deferred income tax benefit from the impairment of our equity method investment in Bakkt. • The 29% effective tax rate in 2021 is significantly above the U.S corporate income tax rate primarily due to the deferred income tax expense resulting from the U.K. tax law changes enacted in 2021. In 2021, the U.K. enacted a corporate income tax rate increase from 19% to 25% effective April 1, 2023. Business Environment and Market Trends Our business environment has been characterized by: • globalization of marketplaces, customers and competitors; • growing customer demand for workflow efficiency and automation; • commodity, interest rate, inflation rate and financial markets volatility and uncertainty; • growing demand for data to inform customers' risk management and investment decisions; • evolving, increasing and disparate regulation across multiple jurisdictions; • price volatility increasing customers' demand for risk management services; • increasing focus on capital and cost efficiencies; • customers' preference to manage risk in markets demonstrating the greatest depth of liquidity and product diversity; • the evolution of existing products and new product innovation to serve emerging customer needs and changing industry agreements; • rising demand for speed, data, data capacity and connectivity by market participants, necessitating increased investment in technology; and • consolidation and increasing competition among global markets for trading, clearing and listings. Recent changes with regard to global financial reform have emphasized the importance of transparent markets, centralized clearing and access to data, all of which are important aspects of our product offering. However, some of the proposed rules have yet to be implemented and some rules that have already been partially implemented are being reconsidered. In addition, some of the global regulations have not been fully harmonized and several non-U.S. regulations are inconsistent with U.S. rules. As the evolution continues, legislative and regulatory actions may change the way we conduct our business and may create uncertainty for market participants, which could affect trading volumes or demand for market data. As a result, it is difficult to predict all of the effects that the legislation and its implementing regulations will have on us. As discussed more fully in Item 1 “- Business - Regulation” included in this Annual Report, Brexit, MiFID II and other regulations have resulted in operational, regulatory and/or business risk. We have diversified our business so that we are not dependent on volatility or transaction activity in any one asset class. In addition, we have increased our portion of recurring revenues from 34% in 2014 to 52% in 2023. These recurring revenues include data services, listings and various mortgage technology solutions. Many of the data products we sell and services we provide are required for our clients’ business operations regardless of market volatility or shifts in business profitability levels. We anticipate that there will continue to be growth in the financial information services sector driven by a number of global trends, including the following: • increasing global regulatory demands; • greater use of fair value accounting standards and reliance on independent valuations; 50 • greater emphasis on risk management; • market fragmentation driven by regulatory changes; • the move to passive investing and indexation; • ongoing growth in the size and diversity of financial markets; • increased automation of fixed income, mortgage and other less automated markets; • the development of new data products; • the demand for greater data capacity and connectivity; • new entrants; and • increasing demand for outsourced services by financial institutions. We continue to focus on our strategy to grow each of our revenue streams, and prudently manage expenses, in order to mitigate these uncertainties and to build on our growth opportunities by leveraging our proprietary data, clearing, markets and technology solutions. Segment Results Our business is conducted through three reportable business segments: Exchanges, Fixed Income and Data Services and Mortgage Technology. Segments are discussed more in detail in "Item 1- Business". While revenues are recorded specifically in the segment in which they are earned or to which they relate, a significant portion of our operating expenses are not solely related to a specific segment because the expenses serve functions that are necessary for the operation of more than one segment. We directly allocate expenses when reasonably possible to do so. Otherwise, we use a pro-rata revenue approach as the allocation method for the expenses that do not relate solely to one segment and serve functions that are necessary for the operation of all segments. Our segments do not engage in intersegment transactions. For details on trends in recent prior-year periods, refer to our 2022 and 2021 Annual Reports on Form 10-K. 51 Exchanges Segment The following presents selected statements of income data for our Exchanges segment (dollars in millions): (1) The adjusted figures in the charts above are calculated by excluding items that are not reflective of our cash operations and core business performance. As a result, these adjusted figures are not calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP. See “- Non-GAAP Financial Measures” below. 52 (1) Transaction-based expenses are largely attributable to our cash equities and options business. Exchanges Revenues Our Exchanges segment includes transaction and clearing revenues from our futures and NYSE exchanges, related data and connectivity services, and our listings business. Transaction and clearing revenues consist of fees collected from derivatives, cash equities and equity options trading and derivatives clearing, and are reported on a net basis, except for the NYSE transaction-based expenses discussed below. Rates per-contract, or RPC, are driven by the number of contracts or securities traded and the fees charged per contract, net of certain rebates. Our per-contract transaction and clearing revenues will depend upon many factors, including, but not limited to, market conditions, transaction and clearing volume, product mix, pricing, applicable revenue sharing and market making agreements, and new product introductions. Transaction and clearing revenues are generally assessed on a per-contract basis and revenues and profitability fluctuate with changes in contract volume and product mix. We consider data and connectivity services revenues and listings revenues to be recurring revenues. Our data and connectivity services revenues are recurring subscription fees related to the various data and connectivity services that we provide which are directly attributable to our exchange venues. Our listings revenues are also recurring subscription fees that we earn for the provision of NYSE listings services for public companies and ETFs, and related corporate actions for listed companies. In 2023 and 2022, 20% and 18%, respectively, of our Exchanges segment revenues, less transaction-based expenses, were billed in pounds sterling or euros. Due to the fluctuations of the pound sterling and euro compared to the U.S. dollar, our Exchanges segment revenues, less transaction-based expenses, were higher by $14 million in 2023 from 2022. Our exchange transaction and clearing revenues are presented net of rebates. We recorded rebates of $989 million and $869 million in 2023 and 2022, respectively. We offer rebates in certain of our markets primarily to support market liquidity and trading volume by providing qualified participants in those markets a discount to the applicable commission rate. Such rebates are calculated based on volumes traded. The increase in rebates is primarily due to higher volumes traded as compared to 2022. • Energy Futures and Options: Total energy volume increased 17% and revenues increased 29% in 2023 from 2022. – Total oil futures and options volume increased 19% in 2023 from 2022 driven, in part, by price volatility related to oil supply/demand dynamics and geopolitical risk, coupled with increased focus on Brent with Midland WTI now deliverable into the Brent Basket, providing additional physical liquidity and exposure. 53 – Our global natural gas futures and options volume increased 16% in 2023 from 2022 primarily due to strength in our Dutch TTF complex as natural gas continues to globalize, coupled with price volatility related to geopolitical events in late 2023. – Our environmentals and other futures and options volume were flat in 2023 from 2022. • Agricultural and Metals Futures and Options: Total volume in our agricultural and metals futures and options markets increased 16% and revenues increased 15% in 2023 from 2022. The overall increase in agricultural volumes was primarily due to 2023 benefiting from elevated price volatility as a result of weather-related supply and demand dynamics, such as El Nino, driving an increased need to manage risk across our commodity markets. – Sugar futures and options volumes increased 20% in 2023 from 2022. – Other agricultural and metal futures and options volumes increased 13% in 2023 from 2022. • Financial Futures and Options: Total volume in our financial futures and options markets was flat and revenues decreased 3% in 2023 from 2022, including the impacts of foreign exchange effects. – Interest rate futures and options volume increased 4% and revenue increased 2% in 2023 from 2022 driven by interest rate volatility and speculation regarding central bank activity in late 2023. Interest rate futures and options revenues were $299 million and $292 million in 2023 and 2022, respectively. – Other financial futures and options volume, which includes our MSCI®, FTSE® and NYSE FANG+ equity index products, decreased 15% and revenue decreased 12% in 2023 from 2022. Other financial futures and options volume decreased as 2022 benefited from elevated volatility across global equity markets driven by geopolitical events, central bank activity and inflationary concerns. Other financial futures and options revenues were $161 million and $183 million in 2023 and 2022, respectively. • Cash Equities and Equity Options: Cash equities volume decreased 7% in 2023 from 2022 due to lower total market volumes as 2022 benefited from elevated volatility related to inflationary, recessionary and geopolitical concerns. Cash equities revenues, net of transaction-based expenses, were $268 million and $275 million in 2023 and 2022, respectively. Equity options volume increased 4% in 2023 from 2022 driven by increased participation. Equity options revenues, net of transaction-based expenses, were $115 million and $103 million in 2023 and 2022, respectively. • OTC and Other: OTC and other transactions include revenues from our OTC energy business and other trade confirmation services, as well as interest income on certain clearing margin deposits, regulatory penalties and fines, fees for use of our facilities, regulatory fees charged to member organizations of our U.S. securities exchanges, designated market maker service fees, exchange membership fees and agricultural grading and certification fees. Our OTC and other revenues decreased 7% in 2023 from 2022 primarily due to a decrease in interest income on clearing margin deposits. • Data and Connectivity Services: Our data and connectivity services revenues increased 6% in 2023 from 2022. The increase in revenue was driven by the strong retention rate of existing customers, the addition of new customers and increased purchases by existing customers. • Listings Revenues: Through NYSE, NYSE American and NYSE Arca, we generate listings revenue related to the provision of listings services for public companies and ETFs, and related corporate actions for listed companies. Listings revenues decreased 4% in 2023 from 2022, driven by market volatility causing delays in initial public offerings, or IPOs. Listings revenues in our securities markets arise from fees applicable to companies listed on our cash equities exchanges– original listing fees and annual listing fees. Original listing fees consist of two components: initial listing fees and fees related to corporate actions. Initial listing fees, subject to a minimum and maximum amount, are based on the number of shares that a company initially lists. All listings fees are billed upfront and the identified performance obligations are satisfied over time. Revenue related to the investor relations performance obligation is recognized ratably over the period these services are provided, with the remaining revenue recognized ratably over time as customers continue to list on our exchanges. In addition, we earn corporate actions-related listing fees in connection with actions involving the issuance of new shares, such as stock splits, rights issues and sales of additional securities, as well as mergers and acquisitions. 54 Listings fees related to other corporate actions are considered contract modifications of our listing contracts and are recognized ratably over time as customers continue to list on our exchanges. Additionally, in 2023, NYSE reported 32 listing transfers from competing exchanges, the second-highest total since 2002, bringing $120 billion in new market capitalization to the exchange and also listed two of the year's three largest IPOs. Selected Operating Data Volume of contracts traded, futures and options rate per contract and open interest are measures that we use in analyzing the performance of our futures and options contracts. Handled volume, matched volume and cash equities and equity options rate per contract are measures that we use in analyzing our NYSE cash equities and equity options performance. We believe each of these measures provides useful information for management and investors in understanding our performance. Management considers these metrics when making financial and operating decisions. Our calculation of these metrics may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. The following charts and tables present trading activity in our futures and options markets by commodity type based on the total number of contracts traded, as well as futures and options rate per contract (in millions, except for percentages and rate per contract amounts): 55 Open interest is the aggregate number of contracts (long or short) that clearing members hold either for their own account or on behalf of their clients. Open interest refers to the total number of contracts that are currently “open,” – in other words, contracts that have been entered into but not yet liquidated by either an offsetting trade, exercise, expiration or assignment. Open interest is also a measure of the future activity remaining to be closed out in terms of the number of contracts that members and their clients continue to hold in the particular contract and by the number of contracts held for each contract month listed by the exchange. The following charts and table present our year-end open interest for our futures and options contracts (in thousands, except for percentages): 56 The following charts and tables present selected cash and equity options trading data. All trading volume below is presented as average net daily trading volume, or ADV, and is single counted: 57 Handled volume represents the total number of shares of equity securities, ETFs and crossing session activity internally matched on our exchanges or routed to and executed on an external market center. Matched volume represents the total number of shares of equity securities, ETFs and crossing session activity executed on our exchanges. Transaction-Based Expenses Our equities and equity options markets pay fees to the SEC pursuant to Section 31 of the Exchange Act. Section 31 fees are recorded on a gross basis as a component of transaction and clearing fee revenue. These Section 31 fees are assessed to recover the government’s costs of supervising and regulating the securities markets and professionals and are subject to change. We, in turn, collect corresponding activity assessment fees from member organizations clearing or settling trades on the equities and options exchanges, and recognize these amounts in our transaction and clearing revenues when invoiced. The activity assessment fees are designed to equal the Section 31 fees. As a result, activity assessment fees and the corresponding Section 31 fees do not have an impact on our net income, although the timing of payment by us will vary from collections. Section 31 fees were $293 million and $499 million in 2023 and 2022, respectively. The decrease in Section 31 fees was primarily due to a decrease in rates. The fees we collect are included in cash at the time of receipt and we remit the amounts to the SEC semi-annually as required. The total amount is included in current liabilities and was $79 million as of December 31, 2023. We make liquidity payments to cash and options trading customers, as well as routing charges made to other exchanges which are included in transaction-based expenses. We incur routing charges when we do not have the best bid or offer in the market for a security that a customer is trying to buy or sell on one of our securities exchanges. In that case, we route the customer’s order to the external market center that displays the best bid or offer. The external market center charges us a fee per share (denominated in tenths of a cent per share) for routing to its system. We record routing charges on a gross basis as a component of transaction and clearing fee revenue. Cash liquidity payments, routing and clearing fees were $1.6 billion and $1.8 billion in 2023 and 2022, respectively. Operating Expenses, Operating Income and Operating Margin The following chart summarizes our Exchanges segment's operating expenses, operating income and operating margin (dollars in millions). See “- Consolidated Operating Expenses” below for a discussion of the significant changes in our operating expenses. (1) The adjusted figures exclude items that are not reflective of our ongoing core operations and business performance. These adjusted numbers are not calculated in accordance with GAAP. See “- Non-GAAP Financial Measures” below. 58 Fixed Income and Data Services Segment The following charts and table present our selected statements of income data for our Fixed Income and Data Services segment (dollars in millions): (1) The adjusted figures in the charts above are calculated by excluding items that are not reflective of our cash operations and core business performance. As a result, these adjusted numbers are not calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP. See “- Non-GAAP Financial Measures” below. 59 In the table above, we consider fixed income data and analytics revenues and other data and network services revenues to be recurring revenues. In both 2023 and 2022, 11%, of our Fixed Income and Data Services segment revenues were billed in pounds sterling or euros. As the pound sterling or euro exchange rate changes, the U.S. equivalent of revenues denominated in foreign currencies changes accordingly. Due to the fluctuations of the pound sterling and euro compared to the U.S. dollar during 2023, our Fixed Income and Data Services revenues were higher by $3 million in 2023 than in 2022. Fixed Income and Data Services Revenues Our Fixed Income and Data Services revenues increased 7% in 2023 from 2022 due to growth in our other data and network services and our fixed income data and analytics products, coupled with strength in CDS clearing. • Fixed Income Execution: Fixed income execution includes revenues from ICE Bonds. Execution fees are reported net of rebates, which were nominal in 2023 and 2022. Our fixed income execution revenues increased 23% in 2023 from 2022 due to increased activity as a result of continued interest rate volatility. • CDS Clearing: CDS clearing revenues increased 18% in 2023 from 2022. The notional value of CDS cleared was $18.8 trillion and $23.8 trillion in 2023 and 2022, respectively. The increase in revenues was primarily due to net interest income on collateral balances. • Fixed Income Data and Analytics: Our fixed income data and analytics revenues increased 2% in 2023 from 2022 primarily due to strength in our index business and growth in our pricing and reference data business. • Other Data and Network Services: Our other data and network services revenues increased 7% in 2023 from 2022. The increase in revenues was driven by growth in our ICE Global Network offering, coupled with strength in our desktops, feeds and derivatives analytics revenues. Annual Subscription Value, or ASV, represents, at a point in time, the data services revenues, which includes Fixed Income Data and Analytics as well as Other Data and Network Services, subscribed for the succeeding 12 months. ASV does not include new sales, contract terminations or price changes that may occur during that 12-month period. However, while it is an indicative forward-looking metric, it does not provide a precise growth forecast of the next 12 months of data services revenues. Management considers ASV metrics when making financial and operating decisions, and believes ASV is useful for management and investors in understanding our data services business performance. As of December 31, 2023, ASV was $1.752 billion, which increased 4.2% compared to the ASV as of December 31, 2022. ASV represents nearly 100% of total data services revenues for this segment. This does not adjust for year-over-year foreign exchange fluctuations. 60 Operating Expenses, Operating Income and Operating Margin The following chart summarizes our Fixed Income and Data Services segment's operating expenses, operating income and operating margin (dollars in millions). See “- Consolidated Operating Expenses” below for a discussion of the significant changes in our operating expenses. (1) The adjusted figures exclude items that are not reflective of our ongoing core operations and business performance. These adjusted figures are not calculated in accordance with GAAP. See “- Non-GAAP Financial Measures” below. 61 Mortgage Technology Segment The following charts and table present our selected statements of income data for our Mortgage Technology segment (dollars in millions): (1) Servicing Software is a new revenue category following completion of the Black Knight acquisition. (2) The adjusted figures in the charts above are calculated by excluding items that are not reflective of our cash operations and core business performance. As a result, these adjusted figures are not calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP. See “- Non-GAAP Financial Measures” below. 62 *Percentage changes in the table above deemed "n/a" are not meaningful. In the table above, we consider subscription fee and certain other revenues to be recurring revenues. Each revenue classification above contains a mix of recurring and transaction revenues, based on the various service offerings described in more detail below. During 2023, we reclassified certain revenues within our Mortgage Technology segment that were previously included in other revenues to closing solutions, origination technology and data and analytics revenues. Closing solutions revenues now include membership dues, and origination technology revenues and data and analytics revenues now include mortgage-related professional services revenues. As of December 31, 2023, other revenues are no longer separately presented. We believe this is a more accurate reflection of the nature of these revenues. The impact of this change was not material, and the prior year periods have been adjusted for comparability. Additionally, following the acquisition of Black Knight and beginning in the third quarter of 2023, we have added servicing software to our Mortgage Technology segment revenues. The comparable periods in 2022 results do not include a contribution from the Black Knight acquisition. Mortgage Technology Revenues Our mortgage technology revenues are derived from our comprehensive, end-to-end U.S. residential mortgage platform. Our mortgage technology business is intended to enable greater workflow efficiency and mitigate risks for customers throughout the mortgage life cycle. Black Knight contributed $363 million of revenues in 2023 following completion of the acquisition. Excluding the revenue contributed by Black Knight, mortgage technology revenues decreased $175 million or 15% in 2023 from 2022, primarily due to lower mortgage origination volumes driven by rising interest rates. • Origination technology: Our origination technology revenues decreased 13% in 2023 from 2022 due to lower transaction-based revenues as mortgage origination volumes declined during 2023, offset by $11 million of origination technology revenue from Black Knight following completion of our acquisition in September 2023. Our origination technology acts as a system of record for the mortgage transaction, automating the gathering, reviewing, and verifying of mortgage-related information and enabling automated enforcement of rules and business practices designed to help ensure that each completed loan transaction is of high quality and adheres to secondary market standards. These revenues are based on recurring Software as a Service, or SaaS, subscription fees, with an additive transaction-based or success-based pricing fee as lenders exceed the number of loans closed that are included with their monthly base subscription, as well as professional services. In addition, the ICE Mortgage Technology network provides originators connectivity to the mortgage supply chain and facilitates the secure exchange of information between our customers and a broad ecosystem of third-party service providers, as well as lenders and investors that are critical to consummating the millions of loan transactions that occur on our origination network each year. Revenue from the ICE Mortgage Technology network is largely transaction-based. • Closing solutions: Our closing solutions revenues decreased 25% in 2023 from 2022 due to lower mortgage origination volumes. Our closing solutions connect key participants, such as lenders, title and settlement agents and 63 individual county recorders, to digitize the closing and recording process. Closing solutions also include revenues from our MERSCORP Holdings, Inc., or MERS database, which provides a system of record for recording and tracking changes, servicing rights and beneficial ownership interests in loans secured by U.S. residential real estate. Revenues from closing solutions are largely transaction-based and are based on the volume of loans closed. • Servicing software: Our servicing software revenues include integrated mortgage servicing solutions, which help automate all areas of the servicing process, from loan boarding to final payment or default, to help lower costs, reduce risk and improve financial performance. Our servicing solutions support first lien mortgages, home equity loans and lines of credit on a single platform to manage all servicing processes, including loan setup and maintenance, escrow administration, investor reporting, and regulatory requirements. We also provide solutions that provide consumers with access to customized, timely information about their mortgages and allow our clients’ customer service representatives to access the same customer information, which is key to increasing borrower retention. Another servicing solution provides clients, third-party providers and their developers access to our growing catalog of APIs across the mortgage life cycle. Our default servicing solutions help simplify the complex process for loans that move into default, while supporting servicers with their compliance requirements and to facilitate more efficient loss mitigation processes. We also offer advanced technology to support the bankruptcy and foreclosure process, and more efficiently manage claims related to properties in foreclosure, as well as tools to support loss analysis, to help servicers make the right decisions at the right time. • Data and Analytics : Our Data and Analytics revenues increased 69% in 2023 from 2022 primarily due to $63 million of revenue from Black Knight following completion of our acquisition in September 2023. Data and Analytics revenues include those related to ICE Mortgage Technology's Data & Document Automation and Mortgage Analyzer solutions, or Analyzer (formerly known as AIQ), which offers customers greater efficiency by streamlining data collection and validation through our automated document recognition and data extraction capabilities. Analyzer revenues can be both recurring and transaction-based in nature. In addition, our data offerings include near real-time industry and peer benchmarking tools, which provide originators a granular view into the real-time trends of the U.S. residential mortgage market, as well as credit and prepayment models, custom and proprietary analytics, valuation, and MLS solutions. We also provide a Data as a Service, or DaaS, for lenders and industry participants to access industry data and origination information. The data and insights from these solutions inform, support and enhance our other solutions to help lenders and servicers make more informed decisions, improve performance, identify and predict risk and generate more qualified leads. Revenues related to our data products are largely subscription-based and recurring in nature. Our data and analytics offerings include property ownership data, lien data, servicing data, automated valuation models and collateral risk scores, among others, provided to clients in the mortgage, real estate and capital markets verticals. Operating Expenses, Operating Income and Operating Margin The following chart summarizes our Mortgage Technology segment's operating expenses, operating income and operating margin (dollars in millions). The primary driver of the increase in operating expenses is related to the impact of the Black Knight acquisition and the corresponding Black Knight related operating expenses. The resulting operating loss and negative margin is primarily related to the acquisition-related transaction and integration costs incurred during the year. See “- Consolidated Operating Expenses” below for a discussion of the significant changes in our operating expenses. *Percentage changes in the table above deemed "n/a" are not meaningful. (1) The adjusted figures exclude items that are not reflective of our ongoing core operations and business performance. These adjusted numbers are not calculated in accordance with GAAP. See “- Non-GAAP Financial Measures” 64 Consolidated Operating Expenses The following presents our consolidated operating expenses (dollars in millions): 65 The majority of our operating expenses do not vary directly with changes in our volume and revenues, except for certain technology and communication expenses, including data acquisition costs, licensing and other fee-related arrangements and a portion of our compensation expense that is tied directly to our data sales or overall financial performance. We expect our operating expenses to increase in absolute terms in future periods in connection with the growth of our business, and to vary from year-to-year based on the type and level of our acquisitions, integration of acquisitions, and other investments. In both 2023 and 2022, 9% of our operating expenses were billed in pounds sterling or euros. Due to fluctuations in the U.S. dollar compared to the pound sterling and euro, our consolidated operating expenses were $4 million higher in 2023 than in 2022. See Item 7(A) “- Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk - Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk” below for additional information. Compensation and Benefits Expenses Compensation and benefits expense is our most significant operating expense and includes non-capitalized employee wages, bonuses, non-cash or stock compensation, certain severance costs, benefits and employer taxes. The bonus component of our compensation and benefits expense is based on both our financial performance and individual employee performance. The performance-based restricted stock compensation expense is also based on our financial performance. Therefore, our compensation and benefits expense will vary year-to-year based on our financial performance and fluctuations in our number of employees. The below chart summarizes the significant drivers of our compensation and benefits expense results for the periods presented (dollars in millions, except employee headcount). Employee headcount increased in 2023 from 2022 primarily due to our acquisition of Black Knight. Compensation and benefits expense increased $188 million in 2023 from 2022 primarily due to $155 million attributable to our acquisition of Black Knight and an increase in our bonus and noncash performance-based restricted stock compensation accruals, partially offset by higher capitalized labor and lower payroll. The stock-based compensation expenses in the table above relate to employee stock option and restricted stock awards and exclude stock-based compensation related to acquisition-related transaction and integration costs. Professional Services Expenses Professional services expense includes fees for consulting services received on strategic and technology initiatives, temporary labor, as well as regulatory, legal and accounting fees, and may fluctuate as a result of changes in our use of these services in our business. Professional services expenses decreased $8 million in 2023 from 2022 primarily due to lower consulting expenses related to bringing certain mortgage technology-related costs in-house, partially offset by higher legal expenses primarily related to the Black Knight acquisition. Acquisition-Related Transaction and Integration Costs In 2023, we incurred $269 million in acquisition-related transaction and integration costs primarily due to legal, consulting and integration expenses related to our acquisition and integration of Black Knight and our integration of Ellie Mae. Included in the acquisition-related transaction and integration costs was $55 million of Black Knight replacement restricted stock awards that accelerated due to the Divestitures and certain terminations. We expect to continue to explore and pursue various potential acquisitions and other strategic opportunities to strengthen our competitive position and support our growth. As a result, we may incur acquisition-related transaction costs in future periods. 66 Technology and Communication Expenses Technology support services consist of costs for running our wholly-owned data centers, hosting costs paid to third-party data centers, and maintenance of our computer hardware and software required to support our technology and cybersecurity. These costs are driven by system capacity, functionality and redundancy requirements. Communication expenses consist of costs for network connections for our electronic platforms and telecommunications costs. Technology and communications expense also includes fees paid for access to external market data, licensing and other fee agreement expenses. Technology and communications expenses may be impacted by growth in electronic contract volume, our capacity requirements, changes in the number of telecommunications hubs and connections with customers to access our electronic platforms directly. Technology and communications expenses increased by $51 million in 2023 from 2022, primarily due to $40 million related to Black Knight and increased hardware and software support costs, partially offset by a decrease in license expense. Rent and Occupancy Expenses Rent and occupancy expense relates to leased and owned property and includes rent, maintenance, real estate taxes, utilities and other related costs. We have significant operations located in the U.S., U.K., and India, with smaller offices located throughout the world. Rent and occupancy expenses increased $9 million in 2023 from 2022, primarily due to $5 million related to Black Knight and other increases in rent and utility costs. See Item 2 “- Properties” above for additional information regarding our leased and owned property. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses include marketing, advertising, public relations, insurance, bank service charges, dues and subscriptions, travel and entertainment, non-income taxes and other general and administrative costs. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $40 million in 2023 from 2022, primarily due to $8 million attributable to Black Knight, payments of claims made following a NYSE system outage that occurred in January 2023, accruals for regulatory matters, an increase in travel and entertainment expenses and increased bad debt expense. Depreciation and Amortization Expenses Depreciation and amortization expense results from depreciation of long-lived assets such as buildings, leasehold improvements, aircraft, hardware and networking equipment, software, furniture, fixtures and equipment over their estimated useful lives. This expense includes amortization of intangible assets obtained in our acquisitions of businesses, as well as on various licensing agreements, over their estimated useful lives. Intangible assets subject to amortization consist primarily of customer relationships, trading products with finite lives and technology. This expense also includes amortization of internally-developed and purchased software over its estimated useful life. We recorded amortization expenses on intangible assets acquired as part of our acquisitions, as well as on other intangible assets, of $749 million and $610 million in 2023 and 2022, respectively. During 2023, $141 million in amortization expense was related to intangible assets acquired in connection with our Black Knight acquisition. We recorded depreciation expenses on our fixed assets of $466 million and $421 million in 2023 and 2022, respectively. The increase in 2023 over 2022 was primarily due to an increase in internally developed software assets in our Mortgage Technology segment. 67 Consolidated Non-Operating Income/(Expense) Income and expenses incurred through activities outside of our core operations are considered non-operating. The following tables present our non-operating income/(expenses) (dollars in millions): *Percentage changes in the table above deemed "n/a" are not meaningful. Interest Income Interest income increased in 2023 from 2022 primarily due to an increase in short-term interest rates combined with larger investment balances. Interest income primarily represents interest earned on our short-term investments, and in 2023 and 2022 included $213 million and $83 million, respectively, in interest income recognized in connection with the short-term investments related to both the $5 billion of the Notes (as defined in "Liquidity and Capital Resources— Debt") issued and the operating cash accumulated for the Black Knight acquisition. In addition, our clearing houses also earned interest income of $88 million in 2023 and $22 million in 2022. The remainder primarily relates to interest earned on various unrestricted and restricted cash balances held within our group entities. Interest Expense Interest expense on our outstanding debt increased $192 million in 2023 driven primarily by the debt raised to fund the Black Knight acquisition. Interest expense on the $5 billion of Senior Notes issued in May 2022 to partially fund the Black Knight acquisition resulted in an incremental increase in interest expense of $87 million. In addition, in 2023 we incurred interest expense of $88 million on borrowings under our Term Loan facility and issuances under our Commercial Paper Program (each as defined in "Liquidity and Capital Resources—Debt"), both of which partially funded the Black Knight acquisition. We also assumed a $1 billion Senior Note in connection with our Black Knight acquisition which resulted in $17 million of interest expense during 2023. See “— Debt” below. Other income/(expense), net Our equity method investments include OCC and Bakkt, among others. We recognized losses of $122 million and $1.3 billion during 2023 and 2022, respectively, of our share of estimated equity method investment losses, net, and impairment charges, which are included in other income/(expense), net. The estimated losses and impairment during 2023 and 2022 are primarily related to our investment in Bakkt. These are partially offset by the estimated profits related to our investment in OCC. Both 2023 and 2022 include adjustments to reflect the difference between reported prior period actual results from our original estimates. In 2022, after recording our share of Bakkt's equity method losses, which included Bakkt's impairment charge, we recorded an impairment charge on our investment in Bakkt to its fair value as other expense. This was based on what we consider to be an other-than-temporary decline in fair value as a result of several factors, including consideration of the impairment charge recorded by Bakkt (see Notes 3 and 4 to our consolidated financial statements). In connection with our acquisition of Black Knight, we acquired an investment in Dun & Bradstreet, which we classified as an equity investment. Subsequent to the Black Knight acquisition and prior to December 31, 2023, we sold the entire investment for a total of $187 million and realized a total loss of $3 million on the sales, net of dividends received, which is included in other income/(expense), net in 2023. In connection with our sale of Black Knight’s Optimal Blue and Empower LOS businesses we received a Promissory Note as part of the sale proceeds that was originally valued at $235 million on the Divestiture Date. As we elected the fair value option for the Promissory Note, we are required to mark the asset to fair value each reporting period. For subsequent measurement as of December 31, 2023, we wrote down the value of the Promissory Note, resulting in a fair value loss of $160 million, which is included in other income/(expense), net in 2023. 68 During 2023, we recorded an impairment related to our CAT loan receivable of $16 million. During 2022, we recorded a $9 million accrual for legal settlements. We completed the sale of our Euroclear stake on May 20, 2022. The carrying value of our investment was $700 million at the time of the sale. We recorded a net gain of $41 million on the sale, which was included in other income during 2022. We did not receive a Euroclear dividend during the 2022 prior to the sale of our investment. We incurred foreign currency transaction losses of $12 million and $9 million in 2023 and 2022, respectively. This was primarily attributable to the fluctuations of the pound sterling and euro relative to the U.S. dollar. Foreign currency transaction gains and losses are recorded in other income/(expense), net, when the settlement of foreign currency assets, liabilities and payables occur in non-functional currencies and there is an increase or decrease in the period-end foreign currency exchange rates between periods. See Item 7A “- Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk -Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk” included elsewhere in this Annual Report for more information on these items. In connection with Accounting Standards Update, or ASU, 2017-07, Compensation Retirement Benefits: Improving the Presentation of Net Periodic Pension Cost and Net Periodic Postretirement Benefit Cost , or ASU 2017-07, we are recognizing the other components of net benefit cost of our defined benefit plans in the income statement as non-operating income on a full retrospective basis. The combined net periodic expense/(benefit) of these plans was ($2 million) and $2 million in 2023 and 2022, respectively. Non-controlling Interest For consolidated subsidiaries in which our ownership is less than 100%, and for which we have control over the assets, liabilities and management of the entity, the outside stockholders’ interests are shown as non-controlling interests. As of December 31, 2023, our non-controlling interests include those related to the non-ICE limited partners' interest in our CDS clearing subsidiaries and non-controlling interest in ICE Futures Abu Dhabi. Consolidated Income Tax Provision Consolidated income tax expense was $456 million and $310 million in 2023 and 2022, respectively. The change in consolidated income tax expense between years is primarily due to the tax impact of changes in our pre-tax income and the changes in our effective tax rate. Our effective tax rate was 16% and 17% in 2023 and 2022, respectively. The 16% effective tax rate for the current year was below the statutory U.S. federal corporate income tax rate primarily driven by the following factors: favorable audit settlements for historical years, favorable state apportionment changes and the application of the high-tax exception to Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income. These 2023 tax benefits were partially offset by the impact of the U.K. corporate income tax increase from 19% to 25% effective April 1, 2023 and the tax impact of certain non-deductible Black Knight acquisition costs. In conjunction with the increase in the U.K. corporate income tax rate in 2023, we intend to elect the high-tax exception to Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income in 2023 in our federal income tax return to be filed in 2024. Our 2023 tax provision includes the impacts of this election. The 17% effective tax rate for 2022 was below the statutory U.S. federal corporate income tax rate as well, primarily driven by the deferred income tax benefit from the impairment to our equity investment in Bakkt in 2022. The OECD Global Anti-Base Erosion Pillar Two minimum tax rules, or Pillar Two, which generally provide for a minimum effective tax rate of 15%, are intended to apply to tax years beginning in 2024. The EU member states and many other countries, including the U.K., our most significant non-US jurisdiction, have committed to implement or have already enacted legislation adopting the Pillar Two rules. In July 2023, the U.K. enacted the U.K. Finance Act 2023, effective as of January 1, 2024, which included provisions to implement certain portions of the OECD Global Anti-Base Erosion Pillar Two minimum tax rules and included an election to apply a transitional safe harbor to extend certain effective dates to accounting periods ending on or before June 30, 2028. These new U.K. Pillar Two rules did not have a material impact on our income tax provision as of December 31, 2023. See Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements and related notes, which are included in this Annual Report, for additional information on these tax items. 69 Liquidity and Capital Resources Below are charts that reflect our outstanding debt and capital allocation. The acquisition and integration costs in the chart below include cash paid for acquisitions, net of cash acquired and cash received for divestitures, cash paid for equity and equity method investments, and acquisition-related transaction and integration costs, in each year. (1) 2021, 2022, and 2023 acquisition and integration costs, net of divestitures excludes $1.2 billion, $741 million, and $187 million of proceeds from sales of our Coinbase, Euroclear, and Dun & Bradstreet  investments, respectively. 70 We have financed our operations, growth and cash needs primarily through income from operations and borrowings under our various debt facilities. Our principal capital requirements have been to fund capital expenditures, working capital, strategic acquisitions and investments, stock repurchases, dividends and the development of our technology platforms. We believe that our cash on hand and cash flows from operations will be sufficient to repay our outstanding debt, but we may also incur additional debt or issue additional equity securities in the future to satisfy our liquidity needs. See “- Future Capital Requirements” below. See “- Cash Flow” below for a discussion of our capital expenditures and capitalized software development costs. Consolidated cash and cash equivalents were $899 million and $1.8 billion as of December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. We had $871 million and $6.6 billion in short-term and long-term restricted cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. We had $680 million in restricted short-term investments as of December 31, 2023. We had $79.0 billion and $142.0 billion of cash and cash equivalent margin deposits and guaranty funds as of December 31, 2023 and 2022, respectively. As of December 31, 2023, the amount of unrestricted cash held by our non-U.S. subsidiaries was $374 million. Due to the application of Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income as of January 1, 2018, the majority of our foreign earnings for the period January 1, 2018 through December 31, 2022 have been subject to immediate U.S. income taxation, and can be distributed to the U.S. in the future with no material additional U.S. income tax consequences. We intend to apply the high tax exception to Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income in 2023, and thus the majority of our foreign earnings in the current year are not expected to be subject to immediate U.S. income taxation. However, these foreign earnings can also generally be distributed to the U.S. with no additional U.S. income tax consequences. Our cash and cash equivalents and financial investments are managed as a global treasury portfolio of non-speculative financial instruments that are readily convertible into cash, such as overnight deposits, term deposits, money market funds, mutual funds for treasury investments, short duration fixed income investments and other money market instruments, thus ensuring high liquidity of financial assets. We may invest a portion of our cash in excess of short-term operating needs in investment-grade marketable debt securities, including government or government-sponsored agencies and corporate debt securities. Cash Flow The following table presents the major components of net changes in cash and cash equivalents, and restricted cash and cash equivalents (in millions): Operating Activities Net cash provided by operating activities primarily consists of net income adjusted for certain items, including depreciation and amortization, deferred taxes, stock-based compensation and the effects of changes in working capital. Net cash provided by operating activities was substantially similar in 2023 and 2022. Net cash provided by operating activities in 2023 is primarily related to $2.4 billion of net income, $1.5 billion of non cash adjustments to net income including $1.2 billion of depreciation and amortization, $257 million of stock-based compensation, $122 million of net losses from our equity method investments, $160 million of the fair value loss on the Promissory Note, offset by $329 million of deferred tax benefit for the year. This was also offset by $389 million of cash used in operating activities related to changes in working capital. Net cash provided by operating activities in 2022 is primarily related to $1.5 billion of net income, $1.9 billion of non cash adjustments to net income including $1.0 billion of depreciation and amortization, $155 million of stock-based compensation, $1.3 billion of net losses from our equity method investments, offset by $593 million of deferred tax benefit for the year. In addition, there was also $123 million of cash provided by operating activities related to changes in working capital. 71 Investing Activities Consolidated net cash used in investing activities in 2023 primarily relates to $10.2 billion paid for acquisitions, net of cash acquired, $1.6 billion of purchases of invested margin deposits, $1.3 billion for purchases of restricted investments primarily related to debt securities purchased by certain clearing houses for purposes of meeting regulatory capital requirements, $190 million of capitalized expenditures, and $299 million of software development costs, partially offset by $4.0 billion of proceeds from the sale of invested margin deposits, $641 million of proceeds from restricted investments related to the debt securities mentioned above, and $187 million of net proceeds from the sale of certain equity investments. Consolidated net cash provided by investing activities in 2022 primarily relates to $7.5 billion of proceeds from the sale of invested margin deposits and $741 million in proceeds from the sale of our Euroclear investment, partially offset by $6.9 billion purchases of invested margin deposits, $225 million of capitalized expenditures, $257 million of capitalized software development costs, $73 million for the purchases of investments and $59 million cash paid for acquisitions, net of cash acquired. The capital expenditures primarily relate to hardware and software purchases to continue the development and expansion of our electronic platforms, data services and clearing houses and leasehold improvements. The software development expenditures primarily relate to the development and expansion of our electronic trading platforms, data services, mortgage services and clearing houses. Financing Activities Consolidated net cash used in financing activities in 2023 primarily relates to a $65.4 billion decrease in our cash and cash equivalent margin deposits and guaranty fund liability balances due to lower commodity prices and reduced volatility, $2.3 billion repayments of debt, $955 million in dividend payments to our stockholders and $78 million in cash payments related to treasury shares received for restricted stock tax payments and stock options exercises, partially offset by $2.0 billion in proceeds from net issuances under our Commercial Paper Program and $2.4 billion in net proceeds from our debt offerings. Consolidated net cash used in financing activities in 2022 primarily relates to a $4.5 billion change in our cash and cash equivalent margin deposits and guaranty fund liability balances, $2.7 billion in repayments of debt, $1.0 billion in net repayments under our Commercial Paper Program, $632 million in repurchases of common stock, $853 million in dividend payments to our stockholders and $73 million in cash payments related to treasury shares received for restricted stock tax payments and stock options exercises, partially offset by $7.9 billion in net proceeds from our debt offerings. Debt As of December 31, 2023, we had $22.6 billion in outstanding debt, consisting of $19.0 billion of senior notes, $2.0 billion under our Commercial Paper Program and $1.6 billion under our Term Loan. As of December 31, 2023, our senior notes of $19.0 billion had a weighted average maturity of 15 years and a weighted average cost of 3.6% per annum. This included the $1.0 billion principal amount of Black Knight InfoServ LLC's 3.625% senior notes due 2028, or the Black Knight Notes, that became part of ICE's consolidated long-term debt on the acquisition date of September 5, 2023 and remained outstanding as of December 31, 2023. Our Commercial Paper notes had original maturities of 4 to 45 days, with a weighted average interest rate of 5.70% per annum and a weighted average maturity of 32 days. Our Term Loan has a maturity date of August 31, 2025 and bears interest at a rate of 6.3% as of December 31, 2023. As of December 31, 2022, we had $18.1 billion in outstanding debt, all of which related to our senior notes. We also had $4.0 million outstanding under credit lines at our ICE India subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2022, our senior notes had a weighted average maturity of 16 years and a weighted average cost of 3.6% per annum. We did not have any commercial paper notes or Term Loan balances outstanding as of December 31, 2022. We have a $3.9 billion senior unsecured revolving credit facility, or the Credit Facility, with a maturity date of May 25, 2027. As of December 31, 2023, of the $3.9 billion that was available for borrowing under the Credit Facility, $2.0 billion was required to backstop the amount outstanding under the Commercial Paper Program and $172 million was required to support certain broker-dealer and other subsidiary commitments. Amounts required to backstop notes outstanding under the Commercial Paper Program will fluctuate as we increase or decrease our commercial paper borrowings. The remaining $1.8 billion is available for working capital and general corporate purposes, including, but not limited to, acting as a backstop to future increases in the amounts outstanding under the Commercial Paper Program. On May 23, 2022, we issued $8.0 billion in aggregate principal amount of new senior notes, comprised of the following: • $1.25 billion in aggregate principal amount of 3.65% senior notes due in 2025, or the 2025 Notes; 72 • $1.5 billion in aggregate principal amount of 4.00% senior notes due in 2027, or the 2027 Notes; • $1.25 billion in aggregate principal amount of 4.35% senior notes due in 2029, or the 2029 Notes; • $1.5 billion in aggregate principal amount of 4.60% senior notes due in 2033, or the 2033 Notes; • $1.5 billion in aggregate principal amount of 4.95% senior notes due in 2052, or the 2052 Notes; and • $1.0 billion in aggregate principal amount of 5.20% senior notes due in 2062, or the 2062 Notes. We used the net proceeds of our senior notes due in 2025, 2027, 2029 and 2062, or collectively, the Notes, together with the issuance of commercial paper, cash on hand and borrowings under the Term Loan, to finance the cash portion of the purchase price for Black Knight. For additional information regarding this transaction, refer to Note 3 to our consolidated unaudited financial statements, included in this Annual Report. We used the $3.0 billion of net proceeds from the offering of the 2033 Notes and the 2052 Notes to redeem $2.7 billion aggregate principal amount of four series of senior notes that would have matured in 2022 and 2023. The balance of the net proceeds was used for general corporate purposes, which included paying down a portion of the amounts outstanding under our Commercial Paper Program. We recorded $30 million in costs associated with the extinguishment and re-financing of our existing debt in connection with our May 2022 debt refinancing. These costs are included in interest expense in our consolidated statements of income for 2022. For additional information regarding this transaction, refer to Note 3 to our consolidated unaudited financial statements, included in this Annual Report. In November 2023, we commenced a private exchange offer and related consent solicitation with respect to the outstanding Black Knight Notes, pursuant to which we offered to issue, in a private offering to eligible holders, new notes in exchange for any and all of the Black Knight Notes held by eligible holders. We also solicited consents from eligible holders to amend the Black Knight Notes and the related indenture under which they were issued to eliminate certain of the covenants, restrictive provisions and events of default from such indenture. The private exchange offer and related consent solicitation expired in December 2023 as the condition that ICE receive the consents of the holders of at least a majority in aggregate principal amount of the Black Knight Notes to adopt certain proposed amendments to the Black Knight Notes and the related indenture under which they were issued was not satisfied. In the future, we may consider alternatives to restructure the Black Knight Notes, which may include one or more consent solicitations and private exchange offers with eligible holders. However, we are not required to restructure the Black Knight Notes and may or may not pursue any alternatives to do so. Any such transaction will only be made in compliance with applicable laws. On May 25, 2022, we entered into a $2.4 billion two-year senior unsecured delayed draw term loan facility, or the Term Loan. We drew down on the Term Loan in full on August 31, 2023 in connection with the closing of the Black Knight acquisition. On both September 29, 2023 and December 29, 2023, we repaid $400 million, reducing the principal outstanding balance at December 31, 2023, to $1.6 billion. Draws under the Term Loan bear interest on the principal amount outstanding at Term SOFR plus an applicable margin, currently 5.46%, plus a credit spread adjustment. The proceeds from borrowings under the Term Loan were used to fund a portion of the purchase price for the Black Knight acquisition. We have the option to prepay outstanding amounts under the Term Loan in whole or in part at any time. Our Commercial Paper Program enables us to borrow efficiently at reasonable short-term interest rates and provides us with the flexibility to de-lever using our strong annual cash flows from operating activities whenever our leverage becomes elevated as a result of investment or acquisition activities. Upon maturity of our commercial paper and to the extent old issuances are not repaid by cash on hand, we are exposed to the rollover risk of not being able to issue new commercial paper. To mitigate this risk, we maintain the Credit Facility for an aggregate amount which meets or exceeds the amount issued under our Commercial Paper Program at any time. If we were not able to issue new commercial paper, we have the option of drawing on the backstop revolving facility. However, electing to do so would result in higher interest expense. For additional details of our debt instruments, refer to Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements, included in this Annual Report. Capital Return In December 2021, our Board approved an aggregate of $3.15 billion for future repurchases of our common stock with no fixed expiration date that became effective January 1, 2022. The approval of our Board for stock repurchases does not obligate us to acquire any particular amount of our common stock. In addition, our Board may increase or decrease the amount available for repurchases from time to time. We did not have any share repurchases in 2023. During 2022, we repurchased 5.0 million shares of our outstanding common stock at a cost of $632 million, including 4.6 million shares at a cost of $582 million under our Rule 10b5-1 73 trading plan and 0.4 million shares at a cost of $50 million on the open market. Open market repurchases are only made during an open trading period and all shares repurchased are held in treasury stock. We discontinued stock repurchases and terminated our Rule 10b5-1 trading plan in August 2020 in connection with our Ellie Mae acquisition and in November 2021, we resumed repurchases. In December 2021, we entered into a new Rule 10b5-1 trading plan that became effective in February 2022. In connection with our acquisition of Black Knight, on May 4, 2022, we terminated our Rule 10b5-1 trading plan and suspended share repurchases. The remaining balance of Board approved funds for future repurchases as of December 31, 2023 was $2.5 billion. From time to time, we enter into Rule 10b5-1 trading plans, as authorized by our Board, to govern some or all of the repurchases of our shares of common stock. We may discontinue stock repurchases at any time and may amend or terminate a Rule 10b5-1 trading plan at any time, subject to applicable rules. We expect funding for any stock repurchases to come from our operating cash flow or borrowings under our Commercial Paper Program or our debt facilities. The timing and extent of future repurchases that are not made pursuant to a Rule 10b5-1 trading plan will be at our discretion and will depend upon many conditions. In making a determination regarding any stock repurchases, management considers multiple factors, including overall stock market conditions, our common stock price performance, the remaining amount authorized for repurchases by our Board, the potential impact of a stock repurchase program on our corporate debt ratings, our expected free cash flow and working capital needs, our current and future planned strategic growth initiatives, and other potential uses of our cash and capital resources. During 2023, we paid cash dividends of $1.68 per share of our common stock in the aggregate, including quarterly dividends of $0.42 per share, for an aggregate payout of $955 million, which includes the payment of dividend equivalents on unvested employee restricted stock units. Refer to Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report, for details on the amounts of our quarterly dividend payouts for the last three years. Future Capital Requirements Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including the rate of growth across our segments, strategic plans and acquisitions, available sources for financing activities, required and discretionary technology and clearing initiatives, regulatory requirements, the timing and introduction of new products and enhancements to existing products, the geographic mix of our business and potential stock repurchases. We currently expect to incur capital expenditures (including operational and real estate capital expenditures) and to incur software development costs that are eligible for capitalization ranging in the aggregate between $600 million and $650 million in 2024, which we believe will support the enhancement of our technology, business integration and the continued growth of our businesses. As of December 31, 2023, we had $2.5 billion authorized for future repurchases of our common stock. We may resume repurchases of our common stock subject to achieving certain debt leverage ratio targets. Refer to Note 12 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report for additional details on our stock repurchase program. Our Board has adopted a quarterly dividend policy providing that dividends will be approved quarterly by the Board or the Audit Committee taking into account factors such as our evolving business model, prevailing business conditions, our current and future planned strategic growth initiatives and our financial results and capital requirements, without a predetermined net income payout ratio. On February 8, 2024, we announced a $0.45 per share dividend for the first quarter of 2024 payable on March 29, 2024 to stockholders of record as of March 15, 2024. Other than the facilities for the ICE Clearing Houses, our Credit Facility, our Term Loan and our Commercial Paper Program are currently the only significant agreements or arrangements that we have for liquidity and capital resources with third parties. See Notes 10 and 14 to our consolidated financial statements for further discussion. In the event of any strategic acquisitions, mergers or investments, or if we are required to raise capital for any reason or desire to return capital to our stockholders, we may incur additional debt, issue additional equity to raise necessary funds, repurchase additional shares of our common stock or pay a dividend. However, we cannot provide assurance that such financing or transactions will be available or successful, or that the terms of such financing or transactions will be favorable to us. See “-Risk Factors" and Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements, included in this Annual Report. Non-GAAP Measures We use certain financial measures internally to evaluate our performance and make financial and operational decisions that are presented in a manner that adjusts from their equivalent GAAP measures or that supplement the information provided by our GAAP measures. We use these adjusted results because we believe they more clearly highlight trends in 74 our business that may not otherwise be apparent when relying solely on GAAP financial measures, since these measures eliminate from our results specific financial items that have less bearing on our core operating performance. We use these measures in communicating certain aspects of our results and performance, including in this Annual Report, and believe that these measures, when viewed in conjunction with our GAAP results and the accompanying reconciliation, can provide investors with greater transparency and a greater understanding of factors affecting our financial condition and results of operations than GAAP measures alone. In addition, we believe the presentation of these measures is useful to investors for making period-to-period comparisons of results because the adjustments to GAAP are not reflective of our core business performance. These financial measures are not presented in accordance with, or as an alternative to, GAAP financial measures and may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies. We encourage investors to review the GAAP financial measures included in this Annual Report, including our consolidated financial statements, to aid in their analysis and understanding of our performance and in making comparisons. The table below outlines our adjusted operating expenses, adjusted operating income, adjusted operating margin, adjusted net income attributable to ICE common stockholders and adjusted diluted earnings per share, which are non-GAAP measures that are calculated by making adjustments for items we view as not reflective of our cash operations and core business performance. These measures, including the adjustments and their related income tax effect and other tax adjustments (in millions, except for percentages and per share amounts), are as follows: Amortization of acquisition-related intangibles are included in non-GAAP adjustments as excluding these non-cash expenses provides greater clarity regarding our financial strength and stability of cash operating results. 75 Transaction and integration costs are included as part of our core business expenses, except for those that are directly related to the announcement, closing, financing or termination of a transaction. However, we adjust for the acquisition-related transaction and integration costs relating to acquisitions such as Black Knight and Ellie Mae given the magnitude of the $11.8 and $11.4 billion, respectively, purchase prices of the acquisitions. We also adjusted for the acquisition-related transaction costs related to the merger of Bakkt and VIH in 2021 due to the significance of the transaction. We adjust for gains and losses on investment transactions and changes in the fair value of our investments. Our investments are not considered to be a part of our core business operations and the impacts of changes in our investments are often non-cash in nature. The following non-GAAP adjustments are reported in the table above related to investments: • During 2023, we excluded the combined realized loss of $3 million related to our sales of the Dun & Bradstreet investment, net of dividends; • During 2022, we excluded the $41 million gain on the sale of our Euroclear investment; • During 2021, we excluded a $34 million fair value gain on our Euroclear equity investment and Euroclear dividends received of $60 million; • In 2021, we excluded the $1.4 billion gain on the deconsolidation of Bakkt and the $1.2 billion gain on the sale of our Coinbase equity investment. Similarly, and as included in the table above, we adjust for our share of net income/(losses) and impairment charges related to our equity method investments, which primarily include OCC and Bakkt. Our share of 2021 net losses from unconsolidated investees includes the period from the Bakkt merger on October 15, 2021 through December 31, 2021. In 2023, our share of total Bakkt net losses was $135 million and our share of OCC net income was $16 million. During 2022, after recording our share of Bakkt's equity method losses, which included an impairment charge recorded by Bakkt, we recorded an impairment in our investment in Bakkt to its fair value as other expense. In 2022, the total Bakkt net losses and impairment was $1.4 billion and our share of OCC net income was $15 million. In 2021, our share of Bakkt losses was $92 million and our share of OCC income was $51 million. We believe these adjustments provide greater clarity of our performance given that equity method investments are non-cash and not a part of our core operations. We adjust for certain items related to our debt. Certain debt activities, such as the early termination of notes, pre-acquisition interest and expense and accelerated amortization of debt costs are not considered to be a part of our core business operations and the impacts of changes in our investments are often non-cash in nature. The following non-GAAP adjustments are reported in the table above related to our debt: • In 2023, we excluded $170 million of interest income earned on investments from the pre-acquisition debt proceeds. This adjustment was net of $158 million of interest expense on pre-acquisition-related debt from our May 2022 debt refinancing related to the Black Knight acquisition. • In 2022, we excluded $59 million of net interest expense on pre-acquisition-related debt from our May 2022 debt refinancing related to the Black Knight acquisition. This adjustment was net of interest income earnings on investments from the pre-acquisition debt proceeds. • In 2022, we adjusted for costs of $30 million associated with the May and June 2022 extinguishment of four series of senior notes that would have matured in 2022 and 2023 using proceeds from our May 2022 issuance of new senior notes. • In 2021, we adjusted for the acceleration of unamortized costs of $4 million related to the September 2021 early redemption of our Floating Rate Notes. Other adjustments not considered to be a part of our core business operations include: • We adjust for the 2023 fair value loss of $160 million related to the Black Knight Promissory Note as this not believed to be part of our core operations. • A $6 million expense for claims made following a NYSE system outage that occurred in January 2023; • 2023 accruals related to regulatory matters of $11 million; • The 2023 impairment related to our CAT loan receivable of $16 million. The CAT was approved by the SEC in 2016 to improve regulators’ ability to monitor trading activity; • A 2022 accrual related to legal and regulatory matters; and • In 2021 we excluded a gain of $7 million related to the settlement of an acquisition-related indemnification claim and $16 million related to a legal settlement. 76 Non-GAAP tax adjustments include the tax impacts of the pre-tax non-GAAP adjustments, deferred tax adjustments on acquisition-related intangibles and other tax adjustments. Other tax adjustments of $79 million in 2023 are primarily related to audit settlements for pre-acquisition tax matters as well as state apportionment changes in prior years. Deferred tax adjustments on acquisition-related intangibles include the impact of tax law changes and apportionment updates resulting in deferred tax (benefit)/expense of ($126 million), $9 million and $183 million in 2023, 2022 and 2021, respectively, related to the following: • Deferred tax adjustments in in 2023 and 2022 related primarily to U.S. state apportionment changes; and • Deferred tax adjustments in 2021 related primarily to the U.K. tax law changes enacted in June 2021, which increased the U.K. corporate income tax rate from 19% to 25% effective April 1, 2023. • Other tax adjustments in 2023 are primarily related to audit settlements for pre-acquisition tax matters as well as state apportionment charges in prior years. For additional information on these items, refer to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report and “- Recent Developments,” “- Consolidated Operating Expenses”, “- Consolidated Non-Operating Income/(Expense)” and “-Consolidated Income Tax Provision” above. Non-GAAP Liquidity Measures We consider free cash flow and adjusted free cash flow to be non-GAAP liquidity measures that provide useful information to management and investors to analyze cash resources generated from our operations. We believe that free cash flow and adjusted free cash flow are useful as the bases for comparing our performance with our competitors and demonstrate our ability to convert the reinvestment of capital expenditures and capitalized software development costs required to maintain and grow our business, as well as adjust for timing differences related to the payment of Section 31 fees. These non-GAAP liquidity measures are not presented in accordance with, or as an alternative to, GAAP liquidity measures and may be different from non-GAAP measures used by other companies. Free cash flow and adjusted free cash flow, including the related adjustments are as follows (in millions): For additional information on these items, refer to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report and “—Consolidated Operating Expenses” above. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements As described in Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements, which are included elsewhere in this Annual Report, certain clearing house collateral is reported off-balance sheet. We do not have any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities. 77 Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments We intend to fund our contractual obligations and commercial commitments from existing cash and cash flow from operations. As of December 31, 2023, our primary cash requirements include the following contractual and other obligations. As of December 31, 2023, we had $22.6 billion in outstanding debt, including $2.0 billion of short-term debt. Our outstanding debt consists of $19.0 billion of fixed rate senior notes, $1.6 billion under our Term Loan and $2.0 billion in commercial paper. Our operating leases primarily relate to our leased office space and data center facilities, and as of December 31, 2023, we had fixed lease payment obligations of $442 million, with $73 million payable within one-year. We have other purchase obligations to purchase various goods and services that we believe are enforceable and legally binding. In addition, we have $80.8 billion in cash and cash equivalent margin deposits and guaranty funds, invested deposits, delivery contracts payable and unsettled variation margin. Clearing members of our clearing houses are required to deposit original margin and variation margin and to make deposits to a guaranty fund. The cash and cash equivalent deposits made to these margin accounts and to the guaranty fund are recorded in the consolidated balance sheets as current assets with corresponding current liabilities to the clearing members that deposited them. ICE NGX administers the physical delivery of energy trading contracts. It has an equal and offsetting claim to and from its respective participants on opposite sides of the physically-settled contract, each of which is reflected as a delivery contract receivable with an offsetting delivery contract payable. See Note 14 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report for additional information on our clearing houses and the margin deposits, guaranty funds, invested deposits, delivery contracts payable and unsettled variation margin. We also have unrecognized tax benefits, or UTBs. As of December 31, 2023, our cumulative UTBs were $268 million, and accrued interest and penalties related to UTBs were $32 million. We are under examination by various tax authorities. We are unable to make a reasonable estimate of the periods of cash settlement because it is not possible to reasonably predict the amount of tax, interest and penalties, if any, that might be assessed by a tax authority or the timing of an assessment or payment. It is also not possible to reasonably predict whether or not the applicable statutes of limitations might expire without us being examined by any particular tax authority. See Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on our UTBs. As of December 31, 2023, we, through NYSE, have net obligations of $102 million related to our pension and other benefit programs. The date of payment under these net obligations cannot be determined. See Note 17 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on our pension and other benefit programs. In addition, the future funding of the implementation and operation of the CAT is ultimately expected to be provided by both the SROs and broker-dealers. To date, however, funding has been provided solely by the SROs, and future funding is expected to be repaid if industry member fees are approved by the SEC and subsequently collected by industry members. New and Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report for information on the new and recently adopted accounting pronouncements that are applicable to us. Critical Accounting Policies We have identified the policies below as critical to our business operations and the understanding of our results of operations. The impact of, and any associated risks related to, these policies on our business operations is discussed throughout “- Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” For a detailed discussion on the application of these and other accounting policies, see Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report. Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with these accounting principles requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets and liabilities, and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities, at the date of our financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. 78 We base our estimates and judgments on our historical experience and other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances when we make these estimates and judgments and re-evaluate them on a periodic basis. Based on these factors, we make estimates and judgments about, among other things, the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from market prices or other independent sources and about the recognition and characterization of our revenues and expenses. The values and results based on these estimates and judgments could differ significantly under different assumptions or conditions and could change materially in the future. We believe that the following critical accounting policies, among others, affect our more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements and could materially increase or decrease our reported results, assets and liabilities. Goodwill and Other Identifiable Intangible Assets Assets acquired and liabilities assumed in connection with our acquisitions are recorded at their estimated fair values. Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price of an acquired company over the fair value of its identifiable net assets, including identified intangible assets. We recognize specifically identifiable intangibles, such as customer relationships, trademarks, technology, trading products, data, exchange registrations, backlog, trade names and licenses when a specific right or contract is acquired. Our determination of the fair value of the intangible assets and whether or not these assets may be impaired following their acquisition requires us to apply significant judgments and make significant estimates and assumptions regarding future cash flows. If we change our strategy or if market conditions shift, our judgments and estimates may change, which may result in adjustments to recorded asset balances. Intangible assets with finite useful lives are amortized over their estimated useful lives whereas goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not. In performing the allocation of the acquisitions' purchase price to assets and liabilities, we consider, among other factors, the intended use of the acquired assets, analysis of past financial performance and estimates of future performance of the acquired business. At the acquisition date, a preliminary allocation of the purchase price is recorded based upon a preliminary valuation performed with the assistance of a third-party valuation specialist. We continue to review and assess our estimates, assumptions and valuation methodologies during the measurement period provided by GAAP, which ends as soon as we receive the information about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date or we learn that more information is not obtainable, which usually does not exceed one year from the date of acquisition. Accordingly, these estimates and assumptions are subject to change, which could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. Estimation uncertainty may exist due to the sensitivity of the respective fair value to underlying assumptions about the future performance of an acquired business in our discounted cash flow models. Significant assumptions typically include revenue growth rates and expense synergies that form the basis of the forecasted results and the discount rate. Our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets are evaluated for impairment annually in our fiscal fourth quarter or more frequently if conditions exist that indicate that the value may be impaired. We test our goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level, and we have identified four reporting units. Our reporting units identified for our goodwill testing are the NYSE, Other Exchanges, Fixed Income and Data Services, and Mortgage Technology reporting units. These impairment evaluations are performed by comparing the carrying value of the goodwill or other indefinite-lived intangibles to its estimated fair value. In accordance with ASU 2017-04, Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment , for both goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible impairment testing, we have the option to first perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit or indefinite-lived intangible asset is less than its carrying amount. If the fair value of the goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible asset is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss is recognized in earnings in an amount equal to the difference. Alternatively, we may choose to bypass the qualitative option and perform quantitative testing to determine if the fair value is less than the carrying value. For our goodwill impairment testing, we have elected to bypass the qualitative assessment and apply the quantitative approach. For our testing of indefinite-lived intangible assets, we apply qualitative and quantitative approaches. Application of the impairment test requires judgment, including the identification of reporting units, assignment of assets and liabilities to reporting units, assignment of goodwill to reporting units, and determination of the fair value of each reporting unit. We have historically determined the fair value of our reporting units based on various valuation techniques, including discounted cash flow analysis and a multiple of earnings approach. In assessing whether goodwill and other intangible assets are impaired, we must make estimates and assumptions regarding future cash flows, long-term growth rates of our business, operating margins, discount rates, weighted average cost of capital and other factors to determine the fair value of our assets. These estimates and assumptions require management’s judgment, and changes to these estimates and assumptions, as a result of changing economic and competitive conditions, could materially affect the 79 determination of fair value and/or impairment. We considered potential indicators of impairment to goodwill and other intangible assets for each of our reporting units, which included continued global inflation concerns and changing interest rates, including their effect on our forecasts and discount rates, among other things. Other than an impairment in 2023 of certain trademark intangible assets, we did not record any impairments in 2023, 2022 or 2021 as a result of our goodwill or indefinite-lived impairment testing. We are also required to evaluate other finite-lived intangible assets for impairment by first determining whether events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these assets to be held and used may not be recoverable. If impairment indicators are present, then an estimate of undiscounted future cash flows produced by these long-lived assets is compared to the carrying value of those assets to determine if the asset is recoverable. If an asset is not recoverable, the loss is measured as the difference between fair value and carrying value of the impaired asset. Fair value of these assets is based on various valuation techniques, including discounted cash flow analysis, which are assessed and conducted in accordance with our internal impairment analysis policies. Income Taxes We are subject to income taxes in the U.S., U.K. and other foreign jurisdictions where we operate. The determination of our provision for income taxes and related accruals, deferred tax assets and liabilities requires the use of significant judgment, estimates, and the interpretation and application of complex tax laws. We recognize a current tax liability or tax asset for the estimated taxes payable or refundable on tax returns for the current year. We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax bases of our assets and liabilities. We establish valuation allowances if we believe that it is more likely than not that some or all of our deferred tax assets will not be realized. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using current enacted tax rates in effect for the years in which those temporary differences and carryforwards are expected to reverse. The Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, Staff has provided additional guidance to address the accounting for the effects of the provisions related to the taxation of Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income noting that companies should make an accounting policy election to recognize deferred taxes for temporary basis differences expected to reverse in future years or to include the tax expense in the year it is incurred. We have made a policy election to recognize such taxes as current period expenses when incurred. We do not recognize a tax benefit unless we conclude that it is more likely than not that the benefit will be sustained on audit by the taxing authority based solely on the technical merits of the associated tax position. If the recognition threshold is met, we recognize a tax benefit measured at the largest amount of the tax benefit that, in our judgment, is greater than 50 percent likely to be realized. We recognize accrued interest and penalties related to uncertain income tax positions as income tax expense in the consolidated statements of income. We operate within multiple domestic and foreign taxing jurisdictions and are subject to audit in these jurisdictions by domestic and foreign tax authorities. These audits include questions regarding our tax filing positions, including the timing and amount of deductions taken and the allocation of income among various tax jurisdictions. We record accruals for the estimated outcomes of these audits, and the accruals may change in the future due to new developments in each matter. At any point in time, many tax years are subject to or in the process of being audited by various taxing authorities. To the extent our estimates of settlements change or the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts recorded, such differences will impact the income tax provision in the period in which such determinations are made. Our income tax expense includes changes in our estimated liability for exposures associated with our various tax filing positions. Determining the income tax expense for these potential assessments requires management to make assumptions that are subject to factors such as proposed assessments by tax authorities, changes in facts and circumstances, issuance of new regulations, and resolution of tax audits. We believe the judgments and estimates discussed above are reasonable. However, if actual results are not consistent with our estimates or assumptions, we may be exposed to losses or gains that could be material.