********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

For an enterprise as diverse and complex as the Company, a wide range of factors present risks to the Company and could materially affect future developments and performance. In addition to the factors affecting specific business operations identified in connection with the description of the Company’s operations and the financial results of its operations elsewhere in this report, the most material of these factors are included below. Current global economic events and conditions may amplify many of these risks.  These risks are not the only risks that may affect the Company. Additional risks that the Company is not aware of or does not believe are material at the time of this filing may also become important factors that adversely affect the Company’s business. Risks Related to the Company’s Operations The Company’s Inability to Continue to Develop New Products Could Limit Sales Growth. The Company’s ability to continue to grow organically is tied in large part to its ability to continue to develop new products. A failure to continue to develop and deliver new, innovative and competitive products to the market could limit sales growth and negatively impact the Company and its financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. The Company’s Growth Strategy Includes Acquisitions and the Company May Not be Able to Make Acquisitions of Suitable Candidates or Integrate Acquisitions Successfully. The Company’s historical growth has included, and the Company’s future growth is likely to continue to include, acquisitions. The Company intends to continue to seek acquisition opportunities both to expand into new markets and to enhance its position in existing markets throughout the world. The Company may not be able to successfully identify suitable candidates, negotiate appropriate acquisition terms, obtain financing needed to consummate those acquisitions, complete proposed acquisitions or successfully integrate acquired businesses into its existing operations. In addition, any acquisition, once successfully integrated, may not perform as planned, be accretive to earnings, or otherwise prove beneficial to the Company. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the assumption of undisclosed, uninsured or unindemnified liabilities, difficulties in the assimilation of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired companies and the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. In addition, prior acquisitions have resulted in, and future acquisitions could result in, the incurrence of substantial additional indebtedness and other expenses. The Markets Served by the Company are Highly Competitive and this Competition Could Reduce Sales and Profit Margins. Most of the Company’s products are sold in competitive markets. Maintaining and improving a competitive position will require continued investment in manufacturing, engineering, quality standards, marketing, customer service and support and distribution networks. The Company may not be successful in maintaining its competitive position. The Company’s competitors may develop products that are superior, may develop methods of more efficiently and effectively providing products and services or may adapt quicker to new technologies or evolving customer requirements. The Company may not be able to compete successfully with existing competitors or with new competitors. Pricing pressures may require the Company to adjust the prices of products to stay competitive. Failure to continue competing successfully could reduce sales, profit margins and overall financial performance. The Company is Dependent on the Availability of Raw Materials, Parts and Components Used in Its Products and Changes in Supply of, or Price for, Raw Materials, Parts and Components May Materially Adversely Affect the Company. While the Company manufactures certain parts and components used in its products, the Company also requires substantial amounts of raw materials and purchases certain parts and components from suppliers. The availability of and prices for raw materials, parts and components may be subject to curtailment or change due to, among other things, suppliers’ allocations to other purchasers, interruptions in production by suppliers, including due to geopolitical or civil unrest, unfavorable economic or industry conditions, labor disruptions, supply chain disruptions, catastrophic weather events, natural disasters, the occurrence of a contagious disease or illness, changes in exchange rates and prevailing price levels. Any change in the supply of, or price for, these raw materials or parts and components could materially affect the Company and its financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. 15 The Company and its Results of Operations and Financial Condition Have Been and May Continue To Be Materially Adversely Impacted by Public Health Conditions, Including Epidemics or Pandemics Such as COVID-19. The Company faces various risks related to public health issues, including epidemics, pandemics and other outbreaks, including the global outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic continues to be a rapidly-changing situation that has negatively impacted and could continue to negatively impact the global economy. The impact of COVID-19, including changes in consumer behavior, pandemic fears, market downturns and restrictions on business and individual activities, has periodically created significant volatility in the global economy. There have been extraordinary actions taken by international, federal, state and local public health and governmental authorities to contain and combat the outbreak and spread of COVID-19 in regions throughout the world, including travel bans, quarantines, “stay-at-home” orders and similar mandates for many individuals to substantially restrict daily activities and for many businesses to curtail or cease normal operations. Any changes in or resurgence of COVID-19, or any other widespread public health conditions, could have a material impact on the Company’s ability to get the raw materials, parts and components it needs to manufacture its products as its suppliers face disruptions in their businesses, closures or bankruptcy as a result of COVID-19 or other widespread public health conditions. The Company depends greatly on its suppliers for items that are essential to the manufacturing of its products. If its suppliers fail to meet its manufacturing needs in the future, it would delay the Company’s production and product shipments to customers and negatively affect operations. Further, as new strains or variants of COVID-19 or other viruses, diseases or public health conditions develop or if sufficient amounts of vaccines or treatments are not available, not widely administered or otherwise prove ineffective, the impact of a widespread public health condition on the global economy, and in turn, our financial condition and operating results could be material. The impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic or any future widespread public health conditions may impact our employees’ ability to work in proximity to others or travel for work. Due to large remote workforce populations resulting from COVID-19 or other widespread public health conditions, the Company may also face informational technology infrastructure and connectivity issues from the vendors that it relies on for certain information technologies to administer, store and support the Company’s multiple business activities. IDEX is heavily dependent on the availability and support of its technology landscape, several of which are provided by external third party service providers (e.g., Microsoft, AT&T and Verizon). Although the Company has not suffered any disruptions to date, any future disruptions in their operations could also negatively impact the Company and its operating results and financial condition. To the extent COVID-19 or any future widespread public health conditions adversely affects the Company and its financial results, they may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks described in Item 1A, “Risk Factors” of this annual report, such as those relating to international operations, the Company’s ability to develop new products, the Company’s ability to execute on its growth strategy of acquisitions, the Company’s dependency on raw materials, parts and components, the effects on movements in foreign currency exchange rates on the Company, the effects on the Company that result from declines in commodity prices and the Company’s reliance on labor availability to operate and grow the business. The Company’s Business Operations May Be Materially Adversely Affected by Information Systems Interruptions or Intrusion, Including those Arising From Cybersecurity Attacks or Incidents. The Company depends on various internal and third party information technologies to administer, store, process and transmit electronic information (including sensitive data such as confidential business information and personal data relating to employees, customers and other business partners) and to support a variety of critical business activities. If these systems (or the systems of the Company’s customers or third-party hosting services) are damaged or cease to function properly, or if the Company or third-party hosting service systems are subject to deliberate cyber-security attacks, such as those involving unauthorized access or malicious software, or unintentional cybersecurity incidents, such as those involving systems misconfigurations, misuse or human error and/or other intrusions, the Company, its operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely impacted. These impacts could include production downtimes, operational delays or other detrimental impacts on operations or the ability to provide products and services to its customers; the compromise, destruction, corruption or theft of confidential or otherwise protected information, data or intellectual property; security breaches; other manipulation or improper use of the Company’s systems or networks; financial losses from fraudulent transactions; financial losses from remedial actions; loss of business or potential liability; adverse media coverage; legal claims or legal proceedings including regulatory investigations, actions, penalties or fines, including those arising from the violation of any applicable data privacy laws; and/or damage to the Company’s reputation. There has been a rise in the number of cyberattacks targeting confidential business information generally and in the manufacturing industry specifically by both state-sponsored and criminal organizations. Moreover, there has been a rise in the number of cyberattacks that depend on human error or manipulation, including phishing attacks or schemes that use social 16 engineering to gain access to systems or perpetuate wire transfer or other frauds. These trends increase the likelihood of such events occurring as well as the costs associated with protecting against such attacks. While the Company attempts to mitigate these risks by employing a number of measures, including employee training, technical security controls and maintenance of backup and protective systems, the Company’s systems, networks, products and services remain potentially vulnerable to known or unknown threats or other intrusions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company and its financial condition or results of operations. Given the unpredictability, nature and scope of cyber-security attacks and incidents, it is possible that potential vulnerabilities could go undetected for an extended period, and it could take considerable time for the Company to obtain full and reliable information as to the extent, amount and type of information and/or systems compromised. Any imposition of liability, particularly liability that is not covered by insurance or is in excess of our insurance coverage, could materially adversely harm our operating results and financial condition. Uncertainty Related to Environmental Regulation and Industry Standards, as well as Physical Risks of Climate Change, Could Adversely Impact the Company's Results of Operations and Financial Position. Increased public awareness and concern regarding environmental risks, including global climate change, may result in more international, regional and/or federal requirements or industry standards to reduce or mitigate global warming and other environmental risks. New climate change laws and regulations could require the Company to change its manufacturing processes or obtain substitute materials that may cost more or be less available for its manufacturing operations. For example, various jurisdictions in which the Company does business have implemented, or in the future could implement or amend, restrictions on emissions of carbon dioxide or other greenhouse gases, taxation of or caps on the use of carbon-based energy, limitations or restrictions on water use, limitations or restrictions on the production of single use plastics, regulations on energy management and waste management and other rules and regulations to address climate change and other environmental risks, which may increase the Company’s expenses and adversely affect its operating results. In addition, the physical risks of climate change are highly uncertain and differ in the geographic regions in which the Company operates. These physical risks may impact the availability and cost of materials, sources and supply of energy, product demand and manufacturing and could increase insurance and other operating costs. Any future increased worldwide regulatory activity relating to climate change could expand the nature, scope and complexity of matters that the Company is required to control, assess and report. If environmental laws or regulations or industry standards are either changed or adopted and impose significant operational restrictions and compliance requirements upon the Company, its suppliers, its customers or its products, or the Company's operations are disrupted due to physical impacts of climate change on the Company, its customers or its suppliers, the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. Further, any failure to adequately address stakeholder expectations or to achieve previously announced initiatives or goals with respect to environmental, social and governance matters may adversely impact our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Economic Conditions A Slowdown in the U.S. or International Economy Could Materially Adversely Affect the Sales and Profitability of the Company’s Businesses. In 2022, 52% of the Company’s sales were derived from domestic operations while 48% were derived from international operations. The Company’s largest end markets include industrial, semiconductor, automotive, life sciences and analytical instruments, food and pharma, fire & safety, energy, paint, chemical processing, agriculture and water and wastewater treatment. A slowdown in the U.S. or global economy and, in particular, any of these specific end markets could materially reduce the Company’s sales and profitability. Changes to Geopolitical and Economic Conditions in the U.S. and Foreign Countries in Which the Company Operates Could Adversely Affect the Company. The Company expects international operations and export sales to continue to be significant for the foreseeable future. The Company’s sales from international operations and sales from export are both subject in varying degrees to risks inherent in doing business outside the U.S. These risks include the following: • possibility of unfavorable circumstances arising from host country laws or regulations and the risks related to required compliance with local laws; • risks of economic instability, including due to inflation; • currency exchange rate fluctuations and restrictions on currency repatriation; • potential negative consequences from changes to taxation policies; 17 • disruption of operations from labor and political disturbances; • withdrawal from or renegotiation of international trade agreements and other restrictions on the trade between the United States and other countries; • the effects of the Trade and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union, the European Atomic Energy Community and the United Kingdom that went into force on May 1, 2021, following the United Kingdom’s decision to exit the European Union, and other long term economic, legal, political and social implications of the United Kingdom’s exit from the European Union; • the imposition of and changes in the United States’ and other governments’ trade regulations, trade wars, tariffs and other trade barriers, including as a result of geopolitical developments and relations between the United States and China and the United States and Russia; and • geopolitical events, including natural disasters, climate change, public health conditions, political instability or other geopolitical events, including civil or political unrest (such as the current conflict between Ukraine and Russia), terrorism, insurrection or war. Any of these events could have a materially adverse impact on the Company and its operations. Significant Movements in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates May Harm the Company’s Financial Results. The Company is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly with respect to the Euro, Swiss Franc, Canadian Dollar, British Pound, Indian Rupee, Chinese Renminbi, Swedish Krona and Brazilian Real. Any significant change in the value of the currencies of the countries in which the Company does business against the U.S. Dollar could affect the Company’s ability to sell products competitively and control its cost structure, which could have a material adverse effect on results of operations. For additional detail related to this risk, see Part II, , “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” Fluctuations in Interest Rates Could Adversely Affect the Company’s Results of Operations and Financial Position. The Company’s profitability may be adversely affected during any periods of unexpected or rapid increases in interest rates. The Company maintains a Credit Agreement with both a term facility and revolving credit facility (together, the “Credit Facility”), which bears interest at either an alternate base rate or adjusted Term SOFR (or appropriate alternative currency reference rates) plus, in each case, an applicable margin based on the lower of the Company’s senior, unsecured, long-term debt rating or the Company’s applicable leverage ratio. A significant increase in Term SOFR or the other rates the Company has agreed to use as an alternative to Term SOFR (should Term SOFR become unavailable) under the Credit Facility, as amended, would significantly increase the Company’s cost of borrowings. Further, any changes in regulatory standards or industry practices, such as the discontinuation of the use of Term SOFR and/or the transition to alternative benchmark rates may result in the usage of higher interest rates under the Credit Facility, and the Company’s current or future indebtedness may be adversely affected. The Company is also exposed to risks if the U.S. Federal Reserve raises its benchmark interest rate, which may reduce the availability of and increase the cost of obtaining new debt and refinancing existing indebtedness. For additional detail related to this risk, see Part II, , "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk." A Significant or Sustained Decline in Commodity Prices, Including Oil, Could Negatively Impact the Levels of Expenditures by Certain of the Company’s Customers. Demand for the Company’s products depends, in part, on the level of new and planned expenditures by certain of its customers. The level of expenditures by the Company’s customers is dependent on, among other factors, general economic conditions, availability of credit, economic conditions within their respective industries and expectations of future market behavior. Volatility in commodity prices, including oil, can negatively affect the level of these activities and can result in postponement of capital spending decisions or the delay or cancellation of existing orders. The ability of the Company’s customers to finance capital investment and maintenance may also be affected by the conditions in their industries. Reduced demand for the Company’s products could result in the delay or cancellation of existing orders or lead to excess manufacturing capacity, which unfavorably impacts the absorption of fixed manufacturing costs. This reduced demand could have a material adverse effect on the Company and its financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Legal, Accounting and Regulatory Matters An Unfavorable Outcome of Any Pending Contingencies or Litigation Could Adversely Affect the Company. The Company is currently involved in pending and threatened legal, regulatory and other proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. These proceedings may pertain to matters such as product liability or contract disputes, and may 18 also involve governmental inquiries, inspections, audits or investigations relating to issues such as tax matters, intellectual property, environmental, health and safety issues, governmental regulations, employment and other matters. Where it is reasonably possible to do so, the Company accrues estimates of the probable costs for the resolution of these matters. These estimates are developed in consultation with outside counsel and are based upon an analysis of potential results and the availability of insurance coverage, assuming a combination of litigation and settlement strategies. It is possible, however, that future operating results for any particular quarter or annual period could be materially affected by changes in assumptions, the continued availability of insurance coverage or the effectiveness of the Company’s strategies related to these proceedings. For additional detail related to this risk, see , “Legal Proceedings” and in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” Failure to Adequately Protect the Company’s Intellectual Property and the Risk of Disputes Involving Intellectual Property Infringement Could Adversely Impact the Company’s Competitive Position, Results of Operations, and Financial Condition. The Company owns patents, trademarks, licenses, and other forms of intellectual property related to its products and continuously invests in research and development that may result in technological innovations and general intellectual property rights. The Company employs various measures to develop, maintain and protect its intellectual property rights. If these measures are not effective, or if the Company’s intellectual property is otherwise infringed, challenged, invalidated or circumvented, the Company may face adverse impacts to its results of operations and/or financial condition. Further, if intellectual property is infringed, challenged, invalidated or circumvented, this could reduce barriers to entry into the Company’s existing lines of business and may result in a loss of market share and adversely impact the Company’s competitive position. Additionally, the Company has registered intellectual property in multiple countries, and the Company’s ability to protect and enforce its intellectual property rights may be limited in foreign countries due to differences in intellectual property protections or proprietary rights laws. If the Company’s intellectual property is infringed, challenged invalidated, or circumvented due to these lesser protections, the Company may face adverse impacts to its results of operations, financial condition, and/or competitive position. Litigation may be necessary to enforce the Company’s intellectual property rights or to defend against infringement claims by third parties. Any litigation or claims brought by the Company could result in costs and diversion of resources, which could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and/or financial condition. Any intellectual property litigation or claims brought against the Company may lead to litigation expenses, diversion of resources, losses or licensing expenses, or the cessation of selling certain products, any of which could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and/or financial condition. The Company’s Intangible Assets, Including Goodwill, are a Significant Portion of Total Assets and a Write-off of  Intangible Assets or Goodwill Would Adversely Impact the Company’s Operating Results and Significantly Reduce the Company’s Net Worth. The Company’s total assets reflect substantial intangible assets, primarily goodwill and identifiable intangible assets. At December 31, 2022, goodwill and intangible assets totaled $2,638.1 million and $947.8 million , respectively. These assets primarily result from acquisitions, representing the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the tangible net assets acquired. Annually, or when certain events occur that require a more current valuation, the Company assesses whether there has been an impairment in the value of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets. If future operating performance at one or more of the Company’s reporting units were to fall significantly below forecasted levels, the Company could be required to reflect, under current applicable accounting rules, a non-cash charge to operating income for an impairment. Any determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of goodwill or identifiable intangible assets would adversely impact the Company’s results of operations and net worth. See in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for further discussion on goodwill and intangible assets. The Company May Face Adverse Effects Resulting from Improper Conduct by Our Employees, Agents or Business Partners. While we strive to maintain high standards, the Company cannot guarantee that our internal controls and compliance systems will always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by employees, agents or business partners of ours (or businesses that we acquire or partner with) that would violate laws in the U.S. or foreign countries in which the Company operates, including laws governing payment to government officials, bribery, fraud, conflicts of interest, competition, employment practices and workplace behavior, export and import compliance, economic and trade sanctions, money laundering and data privacy. In particular, recent years have seen a substantial increase in anti-bribery law enforcement activity with more frequent and aggressive investigations and enforcement proceedings by both the Department of Justice and the SEC, increased enforcement 19 activity by non-U.S. regulators and increases in criminal and civil proceedings brought against companies and individuals. The Company’s policies mandate compliance with all anti-bribery laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions which generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. However, the Company operates in certain countries that are recognized as having governmental and commercial corruption. Violations of any of these laws may result in criminal or civil sanctions or penalties, both monetary and non-monetary, increased costs of compliance and/or damage to our reputation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company and its financial condition and results of operations. General Risk Factors The Company’s Success Depends on Its Executive Management and Other Key Personnel. The Company’s future success depends to a significant degree on the skills, experience and efforts of its executive management and other key personnel and their ability to provide the Company with uninterrupted leadership and direction. The loss of the services of any of the executive officers or a failure to provide adequate succession plans for key personnel could have an adverse impact on the Company. The availability of highly qualified talent is limited and the competition for talent is robust. However, the Company provides long-term equity awards and certain other benefits for its executive officers which provides incentives for them to make a commitment to the Company. The Company’s future success will depend on its ability to have adequate succession plans in place and to attract, retain and develop qualified personnel. A failure to efficiently replace executive management members and other key personnel and to attract, retain and develop new qualified personnel could have an adverse effect on the Company’s operations and implementation of its strategic plan. Challenges with Respect to Labor Availability Could Negatively Impact the Company’s Ability to Operate or Grow the Business. The Company’s success depends in part on the ability of its businesses to proactively attract, motivate and retain a qualified and highly skilled workforce in an intensely competitive labor market. A failure to attract, motivate and retain highly skilled personnel could adversely affect the Company’s operating results or its ability to operate or grow the business.  Additionally, any labor stoppages or labor disruptions, including due to geopolitical unrest, unfavorable economic or industry conditions, catastrophic weather events, natural disasters or the occurrence of a contagious disease or illness could adversely affect the Company’s operating results or its ability to operate or grow the business.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes in this annual report. This discussion may contain forward-looking statements based upon current expectations that involve risks and uncertainties. The Company’s actual results and the timing of selected events could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of several factors, including those set forth under , “Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this annual report. This discussion includes certain non-GAAP financial measures that have been defined and reconciled to their most directly comparable measures that are in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S. GAAP”) later in this Item under the headings “Non-GAAP Disclosures” and “Free Cash Flow.” This discussion also includes Operating working capital which has been defined later in this Item under the heading “Cash Flow Summary.” The non-GAAP financial measures disclosed by the Company should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The financial results prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP and the reconciliations from these results should be carefully evaluated. 2022 Overview IDEX is an applied solutions provider specializing in the manufacture of fluid and metering technologies, health and science technologies and fire, safety and other diversified products built to customers’ specifications. IDEX’s products are sold in niche markets across a wide range of industries throughout the world. Accordingly, IDEX’s businesses are affected by levels of industrial activity and economic conditions in the U.S. and in other countries where it does business and by the relationship of the U.S. dollar to other currencies. Levels of capacity utilization and capital spending in certain industries and overall industrial activity are important factors that influence the demand for IDEX’s products. In 2022, the Company achieved a record year in sales driven by robust demand. The Company’s ability to capture price amid inflation pressures and its focus on execution drove record earnings per share. Finally, the Company deployed record capital, within its existing portfolio, with the acquisition of three businesses - Nexsight, KZValve and Muon Group - and through share repurchases to support our future goals. Select key financial results for the year ended December 31, 2022 when compared to 2021 were as follows: • Sales of $3.2 billion increased 15%; organic sales were up 13%. • Net income of $586.7 million increased 31%; Net income margin of 18.4% increased 210 basis points. • Diluted EPS attributable to IDEX of $7.71 increased $1.83, or 31%; Adjusted diluted EPS attributable to IDEX of $8.12 increased $1.25, or 18%. • Adjusted EBITDA of $884.2 million increased 16%; Adjusted EBITDA margin of 27.9% increased 20 basis points. • Cash flows provided by operating activities of $557.4 million were down as higher earnings were more than offset by an increased investment in working capital. Free cash flow of $489.4 million was 79% of adjusted net income attributable to IDEX. Focus for 2023 During 2023, the Company’s primary focus will be on: • Foundational Execution . During 2021 and 2022, the Company experienced both double-digit organic growth and a challenging operating environment characterized by global supply chain constraints, record inflation and continuing effects of the COVID-19 environment. In 2023, the Company will renew its focus on the core elements of its operating model that are designed to drive efficiency, innovation and growth.  As market conditions continue to evolve, the Company believes it will leverage its process-driven fundamental business practices to drive above-market growth and operational excellence. • Building Great Global Teams. The Company’s teams have demonstrated their ability to quickly adapt to challenges and changing conditions as well as to solve critical problems for customers. The Company is committed to cultivating talent to fuel future growth and onboarding leaders who are committed to IDEX core values, talent development and creating an inspiring Company culture. Diversity, Equity and Inclusion continues to be an area of focus, creating environments where people feel they belong and can bring their true selves to work every day. • Capital Deployment. The Company deployed $1.5 billion over the last two years on growth business opportunities, will continue to identify both organic and inorganic opportunities and believes there will be a high quality pipeline for potential acquisitions. The Company believes that its strong operating cash flow and balance sheet enable deployment 24 of additional capital to acquire IDEX-like businesses in 2023 to further strengthen its portfolio. The Company anticipates that 2023 organic investment opportunities will be in line with 2022 spending. Results of Operations The following is a discussion and analysis of the Company’s results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared with the year ended December 31, 2021. For the discussion related to the consolidated results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared with the year ended December 31, 2020, refer to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2021, which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on February 24, 2022. Performance in 2022 Compared with 2021 Net Sales Sales increased 15%, reflecting a 13% increase in organic sales, a 5% increase from acquisitions (Muon Group - November 2022, KZValve - May 2022, Nexsight - February 2022, Airtech - June 2021 and ABEL - March 2021) net of divestitures (Knight LLC and its related affiliates (“Knight”) - September 2022), a 1% increase from the acceleration of previously deferred revenue related to t he exit of a COVID-19 testing application (see in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail ) and a 4% unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation. Sales increased 23% domestically and 7% internationally, and sales to customers outside the U.S. were approximately 48% and 52% of total sales in 2022 and 2021, respectively. Cost of Sales and Gross Margin Cost of sales increased due to higher sales volume, inflation and acquisitions . Both Gross profit and Gross margin increased primarily due to higher volume leverage, favorable price/cost and productivity and the acceleration of previously deferred revenue related to the exit of a COVID-19 testing application , partially offset by increases in employee-related costs. Gross profit also increased as a result of acquisitions, net of the Knight divestiture, partially offset by an unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative (“SG&A”) expenses increased primarily due to the impact from acquisitions, including amortization, as well as higher discretionary spending, resource investments and employee-related costs. Additionally, the prior year included a $3.5 million impact of a settlement for a corporate transaction indemnity that did not reoccur in 2022. 25 Restructuring Expenses and Asset Impairments Restructuring expenses and asset impairments increased primarily due to an asset impairment related to the exit of a COVID-19 testing application, partially offset by lower severance costs in 2022. See in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail. Operating Income Operating income increased 18%, reflecting a 19% increase in organic operating income, a 2% increase from acquisitions net of divestitures (Knight - September 2022), a 1% favorable net impact from the exit of a COVID-19 testing application, partially offset by a 4% unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation. The increase in organic operating income is attributable to higher volume leverage, favorable price/cost and operational productivity, partially offset by increases in employee-related costs, discretionary spending and resource investments. Operating Margin Operating margin increased 60 basis points, reflecting a 130 basis point increase in organic operating margin, partially offset by a 70 basis point decrease due to acquisitions primarily driven by higher amortization. The increase in organic operating margin is primarily due to higher volume leverage, favorable price/cost and operational productivity, partially offset by increases in employee-related costs, discretionary spending and resource investments. Gain on Sale of Business In the third quarter of 2022, the Company completed the sale of Knight for proceeds of $49.4 million, net of cash remitted, resulting in a pre-tax gain on the sale of $34.8 million. The Company recorded $5.5 million of income tax expense associated with this transaction as Provision for income taxes in the Consolidated Statements of Income during the year ended December 31, 2022. Other (Income) Expense - Net Other (income) expense - net was $3.9 million of income in 2022 compared to $16.2 million of expense in 2021. The prior year included an $8.6 million noncash loss related to the termination of the U.S. pension plan, net of curtailment and an $8.6 million loss on early debt redemption. Additionally, 2022 included $3.1 million of gains on the sale of assets and $2.5 million of foreign currency transaction gains, partially offset by $2.3 million of losses on trading securities. Interest Expense Interest expense decreased primarily due to lower weighted average interest rates on the Company’s indebtedness, partially offset by an increase in the amount of debt outstanding compared with 2021 due to borrowings under the Term Facility and the Revolving Facility, both of which were used to fund the acquisition of Muon Group. Additionally, the prior year included $1.6 million of interest expense for the interest rate contract associated with the 4.20% Senior Notes that did not reoccur in 2022. Income Taxes The Company’s provision for income taxes is based upon estimated annual tax rates for the year applied to federal, state, and foreign income. The provision for income taxes increased $32.2 million to $162.7 million in 2022 as compared with $130.5 million in 2021 due to higher earnings. The 2022 effective tax rate of 21.7% decreased compared with the 2021 effective tax rate of 22.5% primarily due to tax benefits realized from the divestiture of Knight as well as from realizing foreign currency impacts in connection with the funding of the acquisition of Muon Group. Results of Reportable Business Segments The Company has three reportable segments: Fluid & Metering Technologies (“FMT”), Health & Science Technologies (“HST”) and Fire & Safety/Diversified Products (“FSDP”). For a detailed description of the operations within each segment, please refer to Part I, , “Business” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 26 Within its three reportable segments, the Company maintains 13 reporting units where the Company focuses on organic growth and strategic acquisitions. Management’s primary measurements of segment performance are sales, Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA margin. During the fourth quarter of 2022, the Company changed the segment measure of profit and loss used by the Chief Operating Decision Maker ("CODM") in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 280, Segment Reporting , from operating income to Adjusted EBITDA. The change in segment measure of profit and loss aligns with how the CODM allocates resources and evaluates the performance of the business. It also allows the Company to better assess operating results over time since it excludes items that are not reflective of ongoing operations. For further discussion related to the Company’s change in the segment measure of profit and loss used by the CODM as well as the definition of Adjusted EBITDA, refer to in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” Fluid & Metering Technologies Segment (1) Acquisitions included KZValve in May 2022, Nexsight in February 2022 and ABEL in March 2021. Divestitures included Knight in September 2022. Based on the timing of its acquisition, ABEL results for the first two months of 2022 are reflected in the acquisitions/divestitures column while the remaining year-over-year impact is included in the organic column. • Sales increased 24% domestically and 9% internationally. Sales to customers outside the U.S. were approximately 43% and 47% of total segment sales in 2022 and 2021, respectively. • The change in organic sales was attributed to increases in the Pumps reporting unit due to continued favorable demand in the industrial and energy markets as well as strong price capture. Additionally, there were increases in the Energy reporting unit due to a continued rebound in the refined fuel, liquefied petroleum gas and aviation markets as well as improved operational performance, increases in the Agriculture reporting unit due to strong market performance driven by favorable commodity prices and global demand for crops and increases in the Water reporting unit due to an overall positive municipal water market and water-saving targeted growth initiatives. • Adjusted EBITDA margin of 32.1% increased 240 basis points compared with 29.7% in 2021. The change in Adjusted EBITDA margin was attributed to the following: ◦ Organic Adjusted EBITDA margin increased 280 basis points due to strong price/cost, favorable productivity and higher volume leverage, partially offset by increases in employee-related costs, discretionary spending and resource investments. ◦ Acquisitions negatively impacted Adjusted EBITDA margin by 40 basis points due to the dilutive impact from acquisitions on overall FMT Adjusted EBITDA margin. Health & Science Technologies Segment (1) Acquisitions included Muon Group in November 2022 and Airtech in June 2021. Based on the timing of its acquisition, Airtech results for the first six months of 2022 are reflected in the acquisitions/divestitures column while the remaining year-over-year impact is included in the organic column. 27 (2) Includes the impact of the acceleration of previously deferred revenue of $17.9 million as a result of a customer’s decision to discontinue further investment in commercializing its COVID-19 testing application. See in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail. (3) Adjusted net sales is calculated as net sales less the acceleration of previously deferred revenue related to the exit of a COVID-19 testing application. It is used in the calculation of Adjusted EBITDA margin for the full year 2022. Refer to in Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for further details. • Sales increased 32% domestically and 10% internationally. Sales to customers outside the U.S. were approximately 52% and 56% of total segment sales in 2022 and 2021, respectively. • The change in organic sales was attributed to increases in the Scientific Fluidics & Optics reporting unit due to strong demand across the analytical instrumentation and life sciences markets, favorable but slowing demand in the semiconductor market and targeted growth initiatives tied to Next Gen Sequencing and satellite broadband, in the Performance Pneumatics Technologies reporting unit driven by strength in the industrial market, price capture and targeted growth initiatives tied to fuel cells and in the Sealing Solutions reporting unit due to favorable performance in the semiconductor, oil and gas and automotive markets. • Adjusted EBITDA margin of 31.2% decreased 50 basis points compared with 31.7% in 2021. The change in Adjusted EBITDA margin was attributed to the following: ◦ Organic Adjusted EBITDA margin decreased 70 basis points due to increases in employee-related costs, discretionary spending and resource investments, partially offset by higher volume leverage and favorable price/cost. ◦ Foreign currency positively impacted Adjusted EBITDA margin by 20 basis points. Fire & Safety/Diversified Products Segment • Sales increased 8% domestically and 2% internationally. Sales to customers outside the U.S. were approximately 50% and 51% of total segment sales in 2022 and 2021, respectively. • The change in organic sales was attributed to increases in the Fire & Safety reporting unit due to acceptance of targeted growth initiatives, price realization and backlog execution, in the BAND-IT reporting unit due to strength in the energy market driven by increases in oil prices and in the automotive market driven by share gain as well as continued favorable industrial performance and in the Dispensing reporting unit due to continued favorable paint market, North American project volume and strong performance in India. • Adjusted EBITDA margin of 27.1% decreased 160 basis points compared with 28.7% in 2021. The change in Adjusted EBITDA margin was primarily attributed to organic Adjusted EBITDA margin which decreased 140 basis points due to increases in employee-related costs and discretionary spending as well as compressed price/cost, partially offset by higher volume leverage. Performance in 2021 Compared with 2020 Due to the change in segment measure of profit and loss discussed above, the following discussion and analysis of the Company’s segment results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared with the year ended December 31, 2020 has been updated to include Adjusted EBITDA margin for comparative purposes. 28 Fluid & Metering Technologies Segment (1) Acquisitions included ABEL in March 2021 and Flow MD in February 2020. Based on the timing of its acquisition, Flow MD results for the first quarter of 2021 are reflected in the acquisitions/divestitures column while the remaining year-over-year impact is included in the organic column. • Sales increased 5% domestically and 19% internationally. Sales to customers outside the U.S. were approximately 47% and 44% of total segment sales in 2021 and 2020, respectively. • The change in organic sales was attributed to increases in the Pumps reporting unit due to recovery within the industrial market, in the Water reporting unit due to recovery of the municipal water market and water-saving growth projects and in the Agriculture reporting unit due to increased global demand, partially offset by a decrease in the Energy reporting unit due to a decline in capital spending in the oil and gas markets. • Adjusted EBITDA margin of 29.7% decreased 60 basis points compared with 30.3% in 2020. The change in Adjusted EBITDA margin was attributed to the following: ◦ Organic Adjusted EBITDA margin decreased 10 basis points due to increases to inventory reserves associated with COVID-19 new product development opportunities not materializing and resource investments, partially offset by higher volume leverage and favorable price/cost. ◦ Acquisitions negatively impacted Adjusted EBITDA margin by 40 basis points due to the dilutive impact from acquisitions on overall FMT Adjusted EBITDA margin, which was primarily driven by the Flow MD acquisition. ◦ Foreign currency negatively impacted Adjusted EBITDA margin by 10 basis points. Health & Science Technologies Segment (1) Acquisitions included Airtech in June 2021. • Sales increased 27% domestically and 24% internationally. Sales to customers outside the U.S. were approximately 56% and 57% of total segment sales in 2021 and 2020, respectively. • The change in organic sales was attributed to increases in the Scientific Fluidics & Optics reporting unit due to recovery within the analytical instrumentation market as well as increased microfluidics and optics demand, in the Sealing Solutions reporting unit due to strength in the semiconductor market and improvements in the automotive market and in the Material Processing Technologies reporting unit due to increased demand in the food and pharmaceutical markets. • Adjusted EBITDA margin of 31.7% increased 370 basis points compared with 28.0% in 2020. The change in Adjusted EBITDA margin was attributed to the following: ◦ Organic Adjusted EBITDA margin increased 390 basis points due to volume leverage and favorable price/cost, partially offset by targeted reinvestment. ◦ Foreign currency negatively impacted Adjusted EBITDA margin by 20 basis points. 29 Fire & Safety/Diversified Products Segment • Sales increased 17% domestically and 13% internationally. Sales to customers outside the U.S. were approximately 51% and 52% of total segment sales in 2021 and 2020, respectively. • The change in organic sales was attributed to increases in the Dispensing reporting unit due to strong demand in the paint market and in the BAND-IT reporting unit due to improvements in the aerospace, energy and industrial markets, partially offset by a decrease in the Fire & Safety reporting unit due to a lack of large tenders for rescue tools and North America Fire OEM supply chain constraints slowing order to revenue conversion. • Adjusted EBITDA margin of 28.7% was flat compared with 2020. The change in Adjusted EBITDA margin was attributed to the following: ◦ Organic Adjusted EBITDA margin decreased 10 basis points due to unfavorable price/cost and mix, partially offset by higher volume. ◦ Foreign currency positively impacted Adjusted EBITDA margin by 10 basis points. Liquidity and Capital Resources Liquidity Based on management’s current expectations and currently available information, the Company believes current cash, cash from operations and cash available under the Revolving Facility will be sufficient to meet its operating cash requirements, planned capital expenditures, interest and principal payments on all borrowings, pension and postretirement funding requirements, share repurchases and quarterly dividend payments to holders of the Company’s common stock for the foreseeable future . Additionally, in the event that suitable businesses are available for acquisition upon acceptable terms, the Company may obtain all or a portion of the financing for these acquisitions through the incurrence of additional borrowings. At December 31, 2022, working capital was $855.7 million and the Company’s current ratio was 2.6 to 1. At December 31, 2022, the Company’s cash and cash equivalents totaled $430.2 million, of which $373.1 million was held outside of the United States. At December 31, 2022, there was $77.7 million outstanding under the Revolving Facility and $7.9 million of outstanding letters of credit, resulting in a net available borrowing capacity under the Revolving Facility of $714.4 million. The Company believes that additional borrowings through various financing alternatives remain available, if required. Cash Flow Summary The following table is derived from the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows: Operating Activities Cash flows provided by operating activities decreased $7.9 million to $557.4 million in 2022 as higher earnings were more than offset by an increased investment in working capital. Operating working capital, calculated as Receivables - net plus Inventories minus Trade accounts payable, is used by management as a measurement of operational results as well as the short-term liquidity of the Company. The following table details operating working capital as of December 31, 2022 and 2021: 30 Operating working capital increased $156.8 million to $704.8 million at December 31, 2022. Acquisitions, divestitures and foreign currency translation contributed $31.9 million to the increase in operating working capital. Excluding those items, Receivables - net increased $63.1 million as a result of higher volume; Inventories increased $79.0 million to support production amid supply chain challenges; and Trade accounts payable increased $17.2 million due to higher inventory purchases. Investing Activities Cash flows used in investing activities increased $219.1 million to $917.2 million in 2022, primarily due to higher cash outflows for acquisitions with the addition of Muon Group, KZValve and Nexsight in 2022 compared to Airtech and ABEL in 2021, partially offset by proceeds received from both the sale of Knight and the sale of marketable securities in 2022 as well as higher proceeds from asset sales in 2022 compared to 2021. Financing Activities Cash flows used in financing activities increased $28.3 million from $9.5 million in 2021 to $37.8 million in 2022. During 2022, the Company repurchased 795,423 shares at a cost of $148.1 million, paid $177.4 million in dividends, borrowed $210.4 million under the Revolving Facility and $200.0 million under the Term Facility and repaid $135.0 million of the Revolving Facility. During 2021, the Company issued $500.0 million of 2.625% Senior Notes, redeemed $350.0 million of 4.20% Senior Notes and paid $161.1 million in dividends. Free Cash Flow The Company believes free cash flow, a non-GAAP measure, is an important measure of performance because it provides a measurement of cash generated from operations that is available for payment obligations such as operating cash requirements, planned capital expenditures, interest and principal payments on all borrowings, pension and postretirement funding requirements and quarterly dividend payments to holders of the Company’s common stock as well as for funding acquisitions and share repurchases. Free cash flow is calculated as cash flows provided by operating activities less capital expenditures. The following table reconciles free cash flow to cash flows provided by operating activities: (1) Free cash flow as a percent of adjusted net income attributable to IDEX reflects the impact of excluding acquisition-related intangible asset amortization, net of related taxes, from adjusted net income attributable to IDEX in both periods presented . The decrease in free cash flow as compared to 2021 is due to the increases in working capital discussed above, which more than offset higher earnings. 31 Cash Requirements Contractu al Obligations The Company’s contractual obligations include borrowings and related interest, purchase obligations, pension and post-retirement medical benefit plans, rental payments under operating leases, payments under capital leases, a transition tax payable and other obligations arising in the ordinary course of business (such as acquisition commitments). There are no identifiable events or uncertainties, including the lowering of the Company’s credit rating, which would accelerate payment or maturity of any of these commitments or obligations. For a description of the funding requirements related to the Company’s contractual obligations, refer to (transition tax payable), (borrowings and related interest), (lease obligations) and (pension and post-retirement obligations) in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, respectively. As of December 31, 2022, the Company’s purchase obligations, consisting primarily of inventory commitments, totaled approximately $364.4 million, of which $336.4 million is expected to be settled during 2023 and the remainder thereafter. Capital Expenditures Capital expenditures generally include machinery and equipment that support growth and improved productivity, tooling, business system technology, replacement of equipment and investments in new facilities. The Company believes it has sufficient operating cash flows to continue to meet current obligations and invest in planned capital expenditures. In 2022 and 2021, cash flows from operations were more than adequate to fund capital expenditures of $68.0 million and $72.7 million, respectively. The Company recently invested a significant amount of capital to expand the China facility which was completed in late 2022 and the India facility which is expected to be completed in early 2023, ultimately doubling the Company’s historic capacity in each of these countries. Otherwise, management considers its facilities suitable and adequate for the Company’s operations and believes it has ample capacity in its plants and equipment to meet demand increases for future growth in the intermediate term, especially given its operational improvement initiatives that usually increase capacity. Debt Repayment As of December 31, 2022, the Company has $100.0 million of 3.20% Senior Notes due June 2023. The Company expects to either refinance or repay the Notes using the available borrowing capacity of the Revolving Facility, due November 2027. Share Repurchases The Company repurchased 795,423 shares at a cost of $148.1 million in 2022. There were no share repurchases in 2021. As of December 31, 2022, the amount of share repurchase authorization remaining was $563.8 million. For additional information regarding the Company’s share repurchase program, refer to in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Covenants The key financial covenants that the Company is required to maintain in connection with the Revolving Facility, the Term Facility and the 2016 Private Placement Notes, are a minimum interest coverage ratio of 3.0 to 1 and a maximum leverage ratio of 3.50 to 1. At December 31, 2022, the Company was in compliance with both of these financial covenants, as the Company’s interest coverage ratio was 24.39 to 1 for covenant calculation purposes and the leverage ratio was 1.55 to 1. There are no financial covenants relating to the 2.625% Senior Notes or the 3.00% Senior Notes; however, both are subject to cross-default provisions. For a discussion of the Company’s Revolving Facility and Senior Notes as well as the associated covenants, refer to in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Credit Ratings The Company’s credit ratings, which were independently developed by the following credit agencies, are detailed below: • S&P Global Ratings affirmed the Company’s corporate credit rating of BBB (stable outlook) in August 2022. • Moody’s Investors Service affirmed the Company’s corporate credit rating of Baa2 (stable outlook) in December 2021. • Fitch Ratings affirmed the Company’s corporate credit rating of BBB+ (stable outlook) in March 2022. 32 Dividends The Company increased its quarterly cash dividend by 11% from $0.54 per common share in 2021 to $0.60 per common share in 2022. Total dividend payments to common shareholders were $177.4 million in 2022 compared with $161.1 million in 2021. Critical Accounting Estimates The Company believes that the application of the following accounting policy, which is important to its financial position and results of operations, requires significant judgments and estimates on the part of management. For a summary of all of the Company’s accounting policies, including the accounting policy discussed below, see in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” Goodwill and intangible assets — The Company’s business acquisitions result in recording goodwill and other intangible assets, which affect the amount of amortization expense and possible impairment expense that the Company will incur in future periods. The Company evaluates the recoverability of certain noncurrent assets utilizing various estimation processes. The Company follows the guidance prescribed in Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 350, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets , to test goodwill and intangible assets for impairment. The Company determines the fair value of each reporting unit utilizing an income approach (discounted cash flows) weighted 50% and a market approach (consisting of a comparable public company multiples methodology) weighted 50%. The Company uses the relief-from-royalty method, a form of the income approach, to determine the fair value of its indefinite-lived intangible assets. The relief-from-royalty method is dependent on a number of significant management assumptions, including estimates of revenues, royalty rates and discount rates. To determine the reasonableness of the calculated fair values, the Company reviews the assumptions to ensure that neither the income approach nor the market approach yielded significantly different valuations. Based on the results of the Company’s annual impairment test at October 31, 2022, all reporting units had fair values substantially in excess of their carrying values. The key assumptions are updated every year for each reporting unit for the income and market approaches used to determine the fair value. Various assumptions are utilized including forecasted operating results, annual operating plans, strategic plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows, the weighted average cost of capital, market data and market multiples. The assumptions that have the most significant effect on the fair value calculations are the weighted average cost of capital, market multiples, forecasted EBITDA and terminal growth rates. The following assumption ranges were utilized by the Company in 2022 and 2021: See for further discussion on goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets. 33 Non-GAAP Disclosures Set forth below are reconciliations of each of Organic sales, Adjusted net sales, Adjusted net income attributable to IDEX, Adjusted diluted earnings per share (“EPS”) attributable to IDEX, Consolidated Adjusted earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization (“Adjusted EBITDA”) and Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA margin to its respective most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure. Management uses these metrics to measure performance of the Company since they exclude items that are not reflective of ongoing operations, such as fair value inventory step-up charges, restructuring expenses and asset impairments, the impact from the exit of a COVID-19 testing application, gain on sale of a business, gains on sales of assets, the impact of the settlement of a corporate transaction indemnity, the loss on early debt redemption, the noncash loss related to the termination of the U.S. pension plan, net of curtailment and acquisition-related intangible asset amortization. Management also supplements its U.S. GAAP financial statements with adjusted information to provide investors with greater insight, transparency and a more comprehensive understanding of the information used by management in its financial and operational decision making. This report references organic sales and organic operating income, non-GAAP measures, that exclude (1) the impact of foreign currency translation and (2) sales and operating income, respectively, from acquired or divested businesses during the first 12 months of ownership or prior to divestiture and (3) the impact from the exit of a COVID-19 testing application. The portion of sales and operating income attributable to foreign currency translation is calculated as the difference between (a) the period-to-period change in organic sales and organic operating income, respectively, and (b) the period-to-period change in organic sales and organic operating income, respectively, after applying prior period foreign exchange rates to the current year period. Management believes that reporting organic sales and organic operating income provides useful information to investors by helping to identify underlying growth trends in the Company’s business and facilitating easier comparisons of the Company’s revenue and operating performance with prior and future periods and to its peers. The Company excludes the effect of foreign currency translation from organic sales and organic operating income because foreign currency translation is not under management’s control, is subject to volatility and can obscure underlying business trends. The Company excludes the effect of acquisitions and divestitures because they can obscure underlying business trends and make comparisons of long-term performance difficult due to the varying nature, size and number of transactions from period to period and between the Company and its peers. The Company excludes the impact from the exit of a COVID-19 testing application because it is not reflective of ongoing operations and can obscure underlying business trends. Management believes that Adjusted EBITDA, which is EBITDA adjusted for items that are not reflective of ongoing operations, is useful as a performance indicator of ongoing operations. The Company believes that Adjusted EBITDA is useful to  investors as an indicator of the strength and performance of the Company and its segments’ ongoing business operations and a way to evaluate and compare operating performance and value companies within the Company’s industry. Management believes that Adjusted EBITDA margin is useful for the same reason as Adjusted EBITDA. The definition of Adjusted EBITDA used here may differ from that used by other companies. This report also references free cash flow. This non-GAAP measure is discussed and reconciled to its most directly comparable GAAP measure in the section above titled “Free Cash Flow.” The non-GAAP financial measures disclosed by the Company should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Due to rounding, numbers presented throughout this and other documents may not add up or recalculate precisely. The financial results prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP and the reconciliations from these results should be carefully evaluated. (1) Represents the acceleration of previously deferred revenue of $17.9 million as a result of a customer’s decision to discontinue further investment in commercializing its COVID-19 testing application. See in the Notes to  Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail. (1) Represents the net impact of the acceleration of previously deferred revenue of $17.9 million and an impairment charge of $16.8 million as a result of a customer’s decision to discontinue further investment in commercializing its COVID-19 testing application. See in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail. (1) Represents the net impact of the acceleration of previously deferred revenue of $17.9 million and an impairment charge of $16.8 million as a result of a customer’s decision to discontinue further investment in commercializing its COVID-19 testing application. See in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail. 34