********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

For an enterprise as diverse and complex as the Company, a wide range of factors present risks to the Company and could materially affect future developments and performance. In addition to the factors affecting specific business operations identified in connection with the description of the Company’s operations and the financial results of its operations elsewhere in this report, the most material of these factors are included below. Current global economic events and conditions may amplify many of these risks.  These risks are not the only risks that may affect the Company. Additional risks that the Company is not aware of or does not believe are material at the time of this filing may also become important factors that adversely affect the Company’s business. Risks Related to the Company’s Operations The Company and its Results of Operations and Financial Condition Have Been and May Continue To Be Materially Adversely Impacted by the Ongoing COVID-19 Pandemic. The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic continues to be a rapidly-changing situation that has negatively impacted and could continue to negatively impact the global economy. The extent to which COVID-19 and the emergence of variant strains continues to impact the Company will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted with confidence, such as the duration of the outbreak and business closures or business disruptions for the Company, its suppliers and its customers. Any changes in or resurgence of COVID-19 could have a material impact on the Company’s ability to get the raw materials, parts and components it needs to manufacture its products as its suppliers face disruptions in their businesses, closures or bankruptcy as a result of COVID-19. The Company depends greatly on its suppliers for items that are essential to the manufacturing of its products. If its suppliers fail to meet its manufacturing needs in the future, it would delay the Company’s production and product shipments to customers and negatively affect operations. The Company has implemented work-from-home policies for certain “non-essential” employees. Although these work-from-home policies have not negatively impacted the Company in any material respect to date, COVID-19 is dynamic and any future resurgences could negatively impact productivity, disrupt conduct of the Company’s business in the ordinary course and delay production timelines. Due to the large remote workforce populations, the Company may also face informational technology infrastructure and connectivity issues from the vendors that it relies on for certain information technologies to administer, store and support the Company’s multiple business activities. IDEX is heavily dependent on the availability and support of its technology landscape, several of which are provided by external third party service providers (e.g., Microsoft, AT&T and Verizon). Although the Company has not suffered any disruptions to date, any future disruptions in their operations could also negatively impact the Company and its operating results and financial condition. To the extent COVID-19 adversely affects the Company and its financial results, it may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks described in Item 1A, “Risk Factors” of this annual report, such as those relating to international operations, the Company’s ability to develop new products, the Company’s ability to execute on its growth strategy of acquisitions, the Company’s dependency on raw materials, parts and components, the effects on movements in foreign currency exchange rates on the Company, the effects on the Company that result from declines in commodity prices and the Company’s reliance on labor availability to operate and grow the business. The Company’s Inability to Continue to Develop New Products Could Limit Sales Growth. The Company’s ability to continue to grow organically is tied in large part to its ability to continue to develop new products. A failure to continue to develop and deliver new, innovative and competitive products to the market could limit sales growth and negatively impact the Company and its financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. The Company’s Growth Strategy Includes Acquisitions and the Company May Not be Able to Make Acquisitions of Suitable Candidates or Integrate Acquisitions Successfully. The Company’s historical growth has included, and the Company’s future growth is likely to continue to include, acquisitions. The Company intends to continue to seek acquisition opportunities both to expand into new markets and to enhance its position in existing markets throughout the world. The Company may not be able to successfully identify suitable candidates, negotiate appropriate acquisition terms, obtain financing needed to consummate those acquisitions, complete proposed acquisitions or successfully integrate acquired businesses into its existing operations. In addition, any acquisition, once successfully integrated, may not perform as planned, be accretive to earnings, or otherwise prove beneficial to the Company. 14 Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the assumption of undisclosed or unindemnified liabilities, difficulties in the assimilation of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired companies and the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. In addition, prior acquisitions have resulted in, and future acquisitions could result in, the incurrence of substantial additional indebtedness and other expenses. The Markets Served by the Company are Highly Competitive and this Competition Could Reduce Sales and Operating Margins. Most of the Company’s products are sold in competitive markets. Maintaining and improving a competitive position will require continued investment in manufacturing, engineering, quality standards, marketing, customer service and support and distribution networks. The Company may not be successful in maintaining its competitive position. The Company’s competitors may develop products that are superior, may develop methods of more efficiently and effectively providing products and services or may adapt quicker to new technologies or evolving customer requirements. The Company may not be able to compete successfully with existing competitors or with new competitors. Pricing pressures may require the Company to adjust the prices of products to stay competitive. Failure to continue competing successfully could reduce sales, operating margins and overall financial performance. The Company is Dependent on the Availability of Raw Materials, Parts and Components Used in Its Products. While the Company manufactures certain parts and components used in its products, the Company also requires substantial amounts of raw materials and purchases certain parts and components from suppliers. The availability of and prices for raw materials, parts and components may be subject to curtailment or change due to, among other things, suppliers’ allocations to other purchasers, interruptions in production by suppliers, including due to geopolitical or civil unrest, unfavorable economic or industry conditions, labor disruptions, supply chain disruptions, catastrophic weather events, natural disasters, the occurrence of a contagious disease or illness, changes in exchange rates and prevailing price levels. Any change in the supply of, or price for, these raw materials or parts and components could materially affect the Company and its financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. The Company’s Business Operations May Be Adversely Affected by Information Systems Interruptions or Intrusion. The Company depends on various information technologies to administer, store and support multiple business activities. If these systems (or the systems of the Company’s customers or third-party hosting services) are damaged, cease to function properly or are subject to cyber-security attacks, such as those involving unauthorized access, malicious software and/or other intrusions, the Company could experience production downtimes, operational delays, other detrimental impacts on operations or the ability to provide products and services to its customers, the compromising of confidential or otherwise protected information, destruction or corruption of data, security breaches, other manipulation or improper use of the Company’s systems or networks, financial losses from remedial actions, loss of business or potential liability, penalties, fines and/or damage to the Company’s reputation. While the Company attempts to mitigate these risks by employing a number of measures, including employee training, technical security controls and maintenance of backup and protective systems, the Company’s systems, networks, products and services remain potentially vulnerable to known or unknown threats, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company and its financial condition or results of operations. Further, given the unpredictability, nature and scope of cyber-security attacks, it is possible that potential vulnerabilities could go undetected for an extended period. Uncertainty Related to Environmental Regulation and Industry Standards, as well as Physical Risks of Climate Change, Could Impact the Company's Results of Operations and Financial Position. Increased public awareness and concern regarding environmental risks, including global climate change, may result in more international, regional and/or federal requirements or industry standards to reduce or mitigate global warming and other environmental risks.  New climate change laws and regulations could require the Company to change its manufacturing processes or obtain substitute materials that may cost more or be less available for its manufacturing operations. Various jurisdictions in which the Company does business have implemented, or in the future could implement or amend, restrictions on emissions of carbon dioxide or other greenhouse gases, limitations or restrictions on water use, the production of single use plastics, regulations on energy management and waste management and other climate change-based rules and regulations, which may increase the Company’s expenses and adversely affect its operating results.  In addition, the physical risks of climate change may impact the availability and cost of materials, sources and supply of energy, product demand and manufacturing and could increase insurance and other operating costs.  The expected future increased worldwide regulatory activity relating to climate change could expand the nature, scope and complexity of matters that the Company is required to control, assess and report. If environmental laws or regulations or industry standards are either changed or adopted and impose significant operational restrictions and compliance requirements upon the Company, its suppliers, its customers or its products, or the 15 Company's operations are disrupted due to physical impacts of climate change on the Company, its customers or its suppliers, the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. Risks Related to Economic Conditions A Slowdown in the U.S. or International Economy Could Materially Adversely Affect the Sales and Profitability of the Company’s Businesses. In 2021, 48% of the Company’s sales were derived from domestic operations while 52% were derived from international operations. The Company’s largest end markets include industrial, semiconductor, automotive, life sciences and medical technologies, fire and rescue, oil and gas, paint and coatings, chemical processing, agriculture, water and wastewater treatment and optical filters and components. A slowdown in the U.S. or global economy and, in particular, any of these specific end markets could materially reduce the Company’s sales and profitability. Changes to Geopolitical and Economic Conditions in the U.S. and Foreign Countries in Which the Company Operates Could Adversely Affect the Company. The Company expects international operations and export sales to continue to be significant for the foreseeable future. The Company’s sales from international operations and sales from export are both subject in varying degrees to risks inherent in doing business outside the U.S. These risks include the following: • possibility of unfavorable circumstances arising from host country laws or regulations and the risks related to required compliance with local laws; • risks of economic instability, including due to inflation; • currency exchange rate fluctuations and restrictions on currency repatriation; • potential negative consequences from changes to taxation policies; • disruption of operations from labor and political disturbances; • withdrawal from or renegotiation of international trade agreements and other restrictions on the trade between the United States and other countries; • the effects of the Trade and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union, the European Atomic Energy Community and the United Kingdom that was entered into on December 30, 2020 following the United Kingdom’s decision to exit the European Union; • changes in tariff and trade barriers, including uncertainty caused by the evolving relations between the United States and China; and • geopolitical events, including natural disasters, climate change, public health issues, political instability (such as increasing tensions between Ukraine and Russia), terrorism, insurrection or war. Any of these events could have a materially adverse impact on the Company and its operations. Significant Movements in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates May Harm the Company’s Financial Results. The Company is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly with respect to the Euro, Swiss Franc, Canadian Dollar, British Pound, Indian Rupee, Chinese Renminbi and Swedish Krona. Any significant change in the value of the currencies of the countries in which the Company does business against the U.S. Dollar could affect the Company’s ability to sell products competitively and control its cost structure, which could have a material adverse effect on results of operations. For additional detail related to this risk, see Part II, Item 7A, “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” Fluctuations in Interest Rates Could Adversely Affect the Company’s Results of Operations and Financial Position. The Company’s profitability may be adversely affected during any periods of unexpected or rapid increases in interest rates. The Company maintains a revolving credit facility (the “Revolving Facility”), which bears interest at either an alternate base rate or adjusted LIBOR plus, in each case, an applicable margin based on the lower of the Company's senior, unsecured, long-term debt rating or the Company’s applicable leverage ratio. A significant increase in LIBOR or the other rates the Company has agreed to use as a successor to LIBOR under the Revolving Facility, as amended, would significantly increase the Company’s cost of borrowings. Further, any changes in regulatory standards or industry practices, such as the ultimate discontinuation of the use of LIBOR and the transition to alternative benchmark rates may result in the usage of higher interest rates under the Revolving Facility, and the Company’s current or future indebtedness may be adversely affected. The Company is also exposed to risks if the U.S. Federal Reserve raises its benchmark interest rate, which may reduce the availability of and 16 increase the cost of obtaining new debt and refinancing existing indebtedness. For additional detail related to this risk, see Part II, Item 7A, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk." A Significant or Sustained Decline in Commodity Prices, Including Oil, Could Negatively Impact the Levels of Expenditures by Certain of the Company’s Customers. Demand for the Company’s products depends, in part, on the level of new and planned expenditures by certain of its customers. The level of expenditures by the Company’s customers is dependent on, among other factors, general economic conditions, availability of credit, economic conditions within their respective industries and expectations of future market behavior. Volatility in commodity prices, including oil, can negatively affect the level of these activities and can result in postponement of capital spending decisions or the delay or cancellation of existing orders. The ability of the Company’s customers to finance capital investment and maintenance may also be affected by the conditions in their industries. Reduced demand for the Company’s products could result in the delay or cancellation of existing orders or lead to excess manufacturing capacity, which unfavorably impacts the absorption of fixed manufacturing costs. This reduced demand could have a material adverse effect on the Company and its financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Legal, Accounting and Regulatory Matters An Unfavorable Outcome of Any Pending Contingencies or Litigation Could Adversely Affect the Company. The Company is currently involved in pending and threatened legal, regulatory and other proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. These proceedings may pertain to matters such as product liability or contract disputes, and may also involve governmental inquiries, inspections, audits or investigations relating to issues such as tax matters, intellectual property, environmental, health and safety issues, governmental regulations, employment and other matters. Where it is reasonably possible to do so, the Company accrues estimates of the probable costs for the resolution of these matters. These estimates are developed in consultation with outside counsel and are based upon an analysis of potential results and the availability of insurance coverage, assuming a combination of litigation and settlement strategies. It is possible, however, that future operating results for any particular quarter or annual period could be materially affected by changes in assumptions, the continued availability of insurance coverage or the effectiveness of the Company’s strategies related to these proceedings. For additional detail related to this risk, see Item 3, “Legal Proceedings” and Note 11 in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” The Company’s Intangible Assets, Including Goodwill, are a Significant Portion of Total Assets and a Write-off of  Intangible Assets or Goodwill Would Adversely Impact the Company’s Operating Results and Significantly Reduce the Company’s Net Worth. The Company’s total assets reflect substantial intangible assets, primarily goodwill and identifiable intangible assets. At December 31, 2021, goodwill and intangible assets totaled $2,167.7 million and $597.3 million, respectively. These assets primarily result from acquisitions, representing the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the tangible net assets acquired. Annually, or when certain events occur that require a more current valuation, the Company assesses whether there has been an impairment in the value of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets. If future operating performance at one or more of the Company’s reporting units were to fall significantly below forecasted levels, the Company could be required to reflect, under current applicable accounting rules, a non-cash charge to operating income for an impairment. Any determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of goodwill or identifiable intangible assets would adversely impact the Company’s results of operations and net worth. See in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for further discussion on goodwill and intangible assets. Failure To Comply with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act or Other Applicable Anti-bribery Laws Could Have an Adverse Effect on the Company. The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. Recent years have seen a substantial increase in anti-bribery law enforcement activity with more frequent and aggressive investigations and enforcement proceedings by both the Department of Justice and the SEC, increased enforcement activity by non-U.S. regulators and increases in criminal and civil proceedings brought against companies and individuals. The Company’s policies mandate compliance with all anti-bribery laws. However, the Company operates in certain countries that are recognized as having governmental and commercial corruption. The Company’s internal control policies and procedures may not always protect it from reckless or criminal acts committed by employees or third-party intermediaries. Violations of these anti-bribery 17 laws may result in criminal or civil sanctions, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company and its financial condition and results of operations. General Risk Factors The Company’s Success Depends on Its Executive Management and Other Key Personnel. The Company’s future success depends to a significant degree on the skills, experience and efforts of its executive management and other key personnel and their ability to provide the Company with uninterrupted leadership and direction. The loss of the services of any of the executive officers or a failure to provide adequate succession plans for key personnel could have an adverse impact on the Company. The availability of highly qualified talent is limited and the competition for talent is robust. However, the Company provides long-term equity awards and certain other benefits for its executive officers which provides incentives for them to make a commitment to the Company. The Company’s future success will depend on its ability to have adequate succession plans in place and to attract, retain and develop qualified personnel. A failure to efficiently replace executive management members and other key personnel and to attract, retain and develop new qualified personnel could have an adverse effect on the Company’s operations and implementation of its strategic plan. Challenges with Respect to Labor Availability Could Negatively Impact the Company’s Ability to Operate or Grow the Business. The Company’s success depends in part on the ability of its businesses to proactively attract, motivate and retain a qualified and highly skilled workforce in an intensely competitive labor market. A failure to attract, motivate and retain highly skilled personnel could adversely affect the Company’s operating results or its ability to operate or grow the business.  Additionally, any labor stoppages or labor disruptions, including due to geopolitical unrest, unfavorable economic or industry conditions, catastrophic weather events, natural disasters or the occurrence of a contagious disease or illness could adversely affect the Company’s operating results or its ability to operate or grow the business.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes in this annual report. This discussion may contain forward-looking statements based upon current expectations that involve risks and uncertainties. The Company’s actual results and the timing of selected events could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of several factors, including those set forth under , “Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this annual report. This discussion includes certain non-GAAP financial measures that have been defined and reconciled to their most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measures later in this Item under the headings “Non-GAAP Disclosures” and “Free Cash Flow.” This discussion also includes Operating working capital which has been defined later in this Item under the heading “Cash Flow Summary.” The non-GAAP financial measures disclosed by the Company should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The financial results prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP and the reconciliations from these results should be carefully evaluated. 2021 Overview IDEX is an applied solutions provider specializing in the manufacture of fluid and metering technologies, health and science technologies and fire, safety and other diversified products built to customers’ specifications. IDEX’s products are sold in niche markets across a wide range of industries throughout the world.  Accordingly, IDEX’s businesses are affected by levels of industrial activity and economic conditions in the U.S. and in other countries where it does business and by the relationship of the U.S. dollar to other currencies. Levels of capacity utilization and capital spending in certain industries and overall industrial activity are important factors that influence the demand for IDEX’s products. In 2021, the Company achieved a record year in sales, earnings per share and capital deployment as robust demand, targeted growth initiatives and the ability to capture price drove a strong rebound from 2020. Throughout the year, teams steadily navigated continued headwinds arising from material availability, logistical challenges and pandemic-related absenteeism exacerbated by the emergence of new COVID-19 variants. Despite these challenges, the Company expanded operating margin in a highly inflationary environment as previous investments to optimize cost position and productivity initiatives delivered value together with diligent price capture where possible. Finally, the Company delivered strong cash flow and deployed record capital, both within its existing portfolio and with the addition of ABEL and Airtech to the IDEX family of businesses. Select key financial results for the year ended December 31, 2021 when compared to 2020 were as follows: • Sales of $2.8 billion increased 18%; organic sales (which excludes acquisitions/divestitures and foreign currency translation) were up 12%. • Operating income of $637.0 million increased 22%. Adjusted operating income increased 23% to $661.4 million. • Operating margin of 23.0% was up 90 basis points. Adjusted operating margin increased 110 basis points to 23.9%. • Net income attributable to IDEX of $449.4 million increased 19%. Adjusted net income attributable to IDEX increased 21% to $481.6 million. • EBITDA of $723.8 million was 26% of sales and covered interest expense by almost 18 times. Adjusted EBITDA of $765.4 million was 28% of sales and covered interest expense by almost 19 times. • Diluted EPS attributable to IDEX of $5.88 increased $0.94, or 19%. Adjusted EPS attributable to IDEX of $6.30 increased $1.11, or 21%. • Cash flows provided by operating activities of $565.3 million was flat as strong operating results were offset by volume-driven increases in working capital. Free cash flow of $492.6 million was 102% of adjusted net income attributable to IDEX. Focus and Outlook for 2022 During 2022, the Company’s primary focus will be to: • Navigate the Short Term while Innovating for the Future. Demand for the Company’s differentiated technology remains strong. However, the degree to which the difficult supply chain and COVID-19 environment will persist remains highly variable, and the Company will continue to navigate the day-to-day operational challenges posed by external conditions. At the same time, the Company remains focused on the longer-term. The Company will continue to support efficient, innovative, value-creating processes and invest in resources necessary to ensure its businesses are well-positioned to take advantage of the growth potential ahead. 22 • Build Great Global Teams. The Company is committed to its core values and will continue to develop top performing teams. DE&I remains an area of focus as the Company looks to continue its trajectory in creating environments where people feel like they belong and are comfortable bringing their true selves to work. • Deploy Capital. The Company deployed record capital in 2021 and has identified several organic investment opportunities that will result in even higher capital spending in 2022. Additionally, the pipeline for potential acquisitions continues to be strong. The Company anticipates deploying additional capital in 2022 to acquire IDEX-like businesses to further strengthen its portfolio. Results of Operations The following is a discussion and analysis of the Company’s results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared with the year ended December 31, 2020. For the discussion related to the results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared with the year ended December 31, 2019, refer to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020, which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on February 25, 2021. Performance in 2021 Compared with 2020 Sales increased 18%, reflecting a 12% increase in organic sales, a 4% increase from acquisitions (Airtech - June 2021, ABEL - March 2021 and Flow MD - February 2020) and a 2% favorable impact from foreign currency translation. Sales increased 15% domestically and 20% internationally, and sales to customers outside the U.S. were approximately 52% and 51% of total sales in 2021 and 2020, respectively. Cost of sales increased due to higher sales volume and cost inflation. Both gross profit and gross margin increased primarily due to volume leverage, partially offset by higher fair value inventory step-up charges related to acquisitions. Additionally, gross profit increased as a result of favorable price/cost. Selling, general and administrative (“SG&A”) expenses increased primarily due to higher variable compensation and employee-related costs, higher amortization from acquisitions and higher acquisition expenses. The Company incurre d restructuring expenses and asset impairments i n 2021 and 2020 primarily rela ted to severance benefits for cost reduction actions as well as asset impairments related to the consolidation of certain facilities. Operating income increased 22%, reflecting a 20% increase in organic operating income, a 1% favorable impact from lower restructuring costs and a 2% favorable impact from foreign currency translation, partially offset by a 1% decrease driven by higher amortization and fair value inventory step-up charges related to acquisitions (Airtech - June 2021, ABEL - March 23 2021 and Flow MD - February 2020). The increase in organic operating income is primarily due to higher volume leverage and favorable price/cost, partially offset by incremental resource investments and targeted discretionary spending. Operating margin increased 90 basis points, reflecting a 170 basis point increase in organic operating margin and a 10 basis point favorable impact from lower restructuring costs, partially offset by a 90 basis point decrease due to acquisitions, which was driven by higher amortization and fair value inventory step-up charges. The increase in organic operating margin is primarily due to higher volume leverage, partially offset by incremental resource investments and targeted discretionary spending. Other expense - net increased primarily due to an $8.6 million noncash loss related to the termination of the U.S. pension plan, net of curtailment, and $2.3 million of higher losses on trading securities in 2021 . Other expense - net includes a loss on early debt redemption of $8.6 million in 2021 and $8.4 million in 2020. Interest expense decreased primarily due to lower interest rates on the Company’s indebtedness, partially offset by an increase in the amount of debt outstanding compared with 2020. The Company’s provision for income taxes is based upon estimated annual tax rates for the year applied to federal, state and foreign income. The provision for income taxes and the effective tax rate increased as compared with 2020 due to a lower excess tax benefit related to share-based compensation in 2021 and the absence of a benefit from the finalization of the Global Intangible Low-Tax Income (“GILTI”) regulations that favorably impacted the 2020 effective tax rate. Results of Reportable Business Segments The Company has three reportable segments: Fluid & Metering Technologies (“FMT”), Health & Science Technologies (“HST”) and Fire & Safety/Diversified Products (“FSDP”). For a detailed description of the operations within each segment, please refer to Part I, , “Business” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. • The FMT segment designs, produces and distributes positive displacement pumps, valves, small volume provers, flow meters, injectors and other fluid-handling pump modules and systems and provides flow monitoring and other services for the food, chemical, general industrial, water and wastewater, agriculture and energy industries. • The HST segment designs, produces and distributes a wide range of precision fluidics, rotary lobe pumps, centrifugal and positive displacement pumps, roll compaction and drying systems, pneumatic components and sealing solutions, high performance molded and extruded sealing components, custom mechanical and shaft seals, engineered hygienic mixers and valves, biocompatible medical devices and implantables, air compressors and blowers, optical components and coatings, laboratory and commercial equipment, precision photonic solutions and precision gear and peristaltic pump technologies. HST serves a variety of end markets, including food and beverage, pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical, cosmetics, marine, chemical, wastewater and water treatment, life sciences, research and defense markets. • The FSDP segment designs, produces and distributes firefighting pumps, valves and controls, rescue tools, lifting bags, other components and systems for the fire and rescue industry, engineered stainless steel banding and clamping devices used in a variety of industrial and commercial applications and precision equipment for dispensing, metering and mixing colorants and paints used in a variety of retail and commercial businesses around the world. Within its three reportable segments, the Company maintains 13 reporting units where the Company focuses on organic growth and strategic acquisitions. Management’s primary measurements of segment performance are sales, operating income and operating margin. Segment operating income excludes unallocated corporate operating expenses. 24 Fluid & Metering Technologies Segment (1) Acquisitions included ABEL in March 2021 and Flow MD in February 2020. Based on the timing of its acquisition, Flow MD results for the first quarter of 2021 are reflected in the acquisitions/divestitures column while the remaining year-over-year fluctuation is included in the organic column. • The change in organic sales was attributed to increases in the Pumps reporting unit due to recovery within the industrial market, in the Water reporting unit due to recovery of the municipal water market and water-saving growth projects and in the Agriculture reporting unit due to increased global demand, partially offset by a decrease in the Energy reporting unit due to a decline in capital spending in the oil and gas markets. • Sales increased 5% domestically and 19% internationally. Sales to customers outside the U.S. were approximately 47% and 44% of total segment sales in 2021 and 2020, respectively. • Operating margin of 26.0% decreased 20 basis points compared with 26.2% in 2020. The change in operating margin was attributed to the following: ◦ Organic operating margin increased 80 basis points due to higher volume leverage, favorable price/cost and a fair value inventory step-up charge in 2020 related to the Flow MD acquisition that did not reoccur in 2021, partially offset by increases to inventory reserves associated with COVID-19 new product development opportunities not materializing and resource investments. ◦ Acquisitions negatively impacted operating margin by 110 basis points due to: • A $2.5 million fair value inventory step-up charge related to the ABEL acquisition, which lowered operating margin by 20 basis points; • Incremental intangible asset amortization from the ABEL and Flow MD acquisitions of $4.0 million, which negatively impacted operating margin by 40 basis points; and • The dilutive impact from acquisitions on overall FMT operating margin, which was primarily driven by the Flow MD acquisition. Health & Science Technologies Segment (1) Acquisitions included Airtech in June 2021. • The change in organic sales was attributed to increases in the Scientific Fluidics & Optics reporting unit due to recovery within the analytical instrumentation market as well as increased microfluidics and optics demand, in the Sealing Solutions reporting unit due to strength in the semiconductor market and improvements in the automotive market and in the Material Processing Technologies reporting unit due to increased demand in the food and pharmaceutical markets. • Sales increased 27% domestically and 24% internationally. Sales to customers outside the U.S. were approximately 56% and 57% of total segment sales in 2021 and 2020, respectively. • Operating margin of 25.8% increased 280 basis points compared with 23.0% in 2020. The change in operating margin was attributed to the following: ◦ Organic operating margin increased 410 basis points due to volume leverage and favorable price/cost, partially offset by targeted reinvestment. ◦ Acquisitions negatively impacted operating margin by 130 basis points due to the contributions of the Airtech business, which were more than offset by: 25 ▪ A $9.1 million fair value inventory step-up charge related to the Airtech acquisition, which lowered operating margin by 80 basis points; and ▪ Incremental intangible asset amortization from the Airtech acquisition of $8.6 million, which negatively impacted operating margin by 70 basis points. Fire & Safety/Diversified Products Segment • The change in organic sales was attributed to increases in the Dispensing reporting unit due to strong demand in the paint market and in the BAND-IT reporting unit due to improvements in the aerospace, energy and industrial markets, partially offset by a decrease in the Fire & Safety reporting unit due to a lack of large tenders for rescue tools and North America Fire OEM supply chain constraints slowing order to revenue conversion. • Sales increased 17% domestically and 13% internationally. Sales to customers outside the U.S. were approximately 51% and 52% of total segment sales in 2021 and 2020, respectively. • Operating margin of 26.1% increased 50 basis points compared with 25.6% in 2020. The change in organic operating margin was attributed to higher volume, partially offset by unfavorable price/cost and mix. Liquidity and Capital Resources Liquidity Although the COVID-19 pandemic (including the emergence of variant strains) has impacted and may continue to impact the Company’s operating cash flows, based on management’s current expectations and currently available information, the Company believes current cash, cash from operations and cash available under the Revolving Facility will be sufficient to meet its operating cash requirements, planned capital expenditures, interest and principal payments on all borrowings, pension and postretirement funding requirements, share repurchases and quarterly dividend payments to holders of the Company’s common stock for the foreseeable future . Additionally, in the event that suitable businesses are available for acquisition upon acceptable terms, the Company may obtain all or a portion of the financing for these acquisitions through the incurrence of additional borrowings. At December 31, 2021, working capital was $1,198.0 million and the Company’s current ratio was 3.5 to 1. At December 31, 2021, the Company’s cash and cash equivalents totaled $855.4 million, of which $457.5 million was held outside of the United States. At December 31, 2021, there was no balance outstanding under the Revolving Facility and $7.2 million of outstanding letters of credit, resulting in a net available borrowing capacity under the Revolving Facility of $792.8 million. The Company believes that additional borrowings through various financing alternatives remain available, if required. Cash Flow Summary The following table is derived from the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows: Operating Activities Cash flows provided by operating activities decreased $4.0 million to $565.3 million in 2021, primarily due to increases in working capital discussed below, mostly offset by higher earnings. 26 Operating working capital, calculated as accounts receivable plus inventory minus accounts payable, is used by management as a measurement of operational results as well as the short-term liquidity of the Company. The following table details operating working capital as of December 31, 2021 and 2020: Operating working capital increased $117.0 million to $548.0 million at December 31, 2021, with acquisition, divestiture and foreign currency translation impacts primarily driving a net $44.4 million of the increase. Excluding these impacts, the increase in accounts receivables was $49.4 million, driven by higher revenues as demand rebounded from 2020 levels; inventories increased $46.1 million to address higher demand and build safety stock to support production amid supply chain difficulties; and trade accounts payable increased $22.9 million as a result of timing of inventory purchases. Investing Activities Cash flows used in investing activities increased $525.5 million to $698.1 million in 2021, primarily due to higher cash outflows for acquisitions with the addition of ABEL and Airtech in 2021 compared to Flow MD in 2020, for the purchase of marketable securities and for capital expenditures which significantly increased as the Company is expanding both its China and India facilities. Financing Activities Cash flows used in financing activities decreased $33.1 million to $9.5 million in 2021. During 2021, the Company issued $500.0 million of 2.2625% Senior Notes and redeemed $350.0 million of 4.2% Senior Notes due December 2021 and increased its quarterly cash dividend to $0.54, resulting in dividend payments of $161.1 million. During 2020, the Company issued $500.0 million of 3.0% Senior Notes and redeemed $300.0 million of 4.5% Senior Notes due December 2020, paid $151.8 million in dividends and repurchased 0.9 million shares at a cost of $110.3 million. Free Cash Flow The Company believes free cash flow, a non-GAAP measure, is an important measure of performance because it provides a measurement of cash generated from operations that is available for payment obligations such as planned capital expenditures, interest and principal payments on all borrowings and quarterly dividend payments to holders of the Company’s common stock as well as for funding acquisitions. Free cash flow is calculated as cash flows provided by operating activities less capital expenditures. The following table reconciles free cash flow to cash flows provided by operating activities: The decrease in free cash flow as compared to 2020 is due to a volume-driven build in working capital and higher investments in growth projects in 2021, including capital expenditures related to the expansion of facilities in China and India. 27 Cash Requirements Pending Acquisitions As previously announced, on November 23, 2021, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Nexsight, LLC and its businesses for cash consideration of $120.0 million. The Company expects to close the transaction by the end of the first quarter of 2022, subject to regulatory approval and customary closing conditions. Contractual Obligations The Company’s contractual obligations include borrowings and related interest, purchase obligations, pension and post-retirement medical benefit plans, rental payments under operating leases, payments under capital leases, a transition tax payable and other obligations arising in the ordinary course of business (such as acquisition commitments). There are no identifiable events or uncertainties, including the lowering of the Company’s credit rating, which would accelerate payment or maturity of any of these commitments or obligations. For a description of the funding requirements related to the Company’s contractual obligations, refer to (transition tax payable), (borrowings and related interest), (lease obligations), (pension and post-retirement obligations) and (acquisition commitments) in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, respectively. As of December 31, 2021, the Company’s purchase obligations, consisting primarily of inventory commitments, totaled approximately $347.4 million, of which $320.4 million is expected to be settled during 2022 and the remainder thereafter. Capital Expenditures Cash flows from operations were more than adequate to fund capital expenditures of $72.7 million and $51.6 million in 2021 and 2020, respectively. The Company believes it has sufficient operating cash flow to continue to meet current obligations and invest in planned capital expenditures. Capital expenditures are generally expenditures for machinery and equipment that support growth and improved productivity, tooling, business system technology, replacement of equipment and investments in new facilities. The Company has invested a significant amount of capital to expand both the China and India facilities that will ultimately double the Company’s historic capacity in each of these countries. Otherwise, m anagement believes that the Company has ample capacity in its plants and equipment to meet demand increases for future growth in the intermediate term. Covenants There are two key financial covenants that the Company is required to maintain in connection with the Revolving Facility and the 2016 Private Placement Notes, a minimum interest coverage ratio of 3.0 to 1 and a maximum leverage ratio of 3.50 to 1. At December 31, 2021, the Company was in compliance with both of these financial covenants, as the Company’s interest coverage ratio was 20.12 to 1 for covenant calculation purposes and the leverage ratio was 1.52 to 1. There are no financial covenants relating to the 2.625% Senior Notes or the 3.00% Senior Notes; however, both are subject to cross-default provisions. For a discussion of the Company’s Revolving Facility and Senior Notes as well as the associated covenants, refer to in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Credit Ratings The Company’s credit ratings, which were independently developed by the following credit agencies, are detailed below: • S&P Global Ratings affirmed the Company’s corporate credit rating of BBB (stable outlook) in June 2021. • Moody’s Investors Service affirmed the Company’s corporate credit rating of Baa2 (stable outlook) in December 2021. • Fitch Ratings affirmed the Company’s corporate credit rating of BBB+ (stable outlook) in March 2021. Share Repurchases There were no share repurchases in 2021. The Company repurchased 0.9 million shares at a cost of $110.3 million in 2020. As of December 31, 2021, the amount of share repurchase authorization remaining was $712.0 million. For additional information regarding the Company’s share repurchase program, refer to in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 28 Dividends The Company increased its quarterly cash dividend by 8% from $0.50 per common share in 2020 to $0.54 per common share in 2021. Total dividend payments to common shareholders were $161.1 million in 2021 compared with $151.8 million in 2020. Critical Accounting Estimates The Company believes that the application of the following accounting policy, which is important to its financial position and results of operations, requires significant judgments and estimates on the part of management. For a summary of all of the Company’s accounting policies, including the accounting policy discussed below, see in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” Goodwill and intangible assets — The Company’s business acquisitions result in recording goodwill and other intangible assets, which affect the amount of amortization expense and possible impairment expense that the Company will incur in future periods. The Company evaluates the recoverability of certain noncurrent assets utilizing various estimation processes.  The Company follows the guidance prescribed in Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 350, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets , to test goodwill and intangible assets for impairment. The Company determines the fair value of each reporting unit utilizing an income approach (discounted cash flows) weighted 50% and a market approach (consisting of a comparable public company multiples methodology) weighted 50%. The Company uses the relief-from-royalty method, a form of the income approach, to determine the fair value of its indefinite-lived intangible assets. The relief-from-royalty method is dependent on a number of significant management assumptions, including estimates of revenues, royalty rates and discount rates. To determine the reasonableness of the calculated fair values, the Company reviews the assumptions to ensure that neither the income approach nor the market approach yielded significantly different valuations. Based on the results of the Company’s annual impairment test at October 31, 2021, all reporting units had fair values substantially in excess of their carrying values. The key assumptions are updated every year for each reporting unit for the income and market approaches used to determine the fair value. Various assumptions are utilized including forecasted operating results, annual operating plans, strategic plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows, the weighted average cost of capital, market data and market multiples. The assumptions that have the most significant effect on the fair value calculations are the weighted average cost of capital, market multiples, forecasted EBITDA and terminal growth rates. The following assumption ranges were utilized by the Company in 2021 and 2020: See for further discussion on goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets. 29 Non-GAAP Disclosures Set forth below are reconciliations of each of Organic sales, Adjusted gross profit (and adjusted gross margin), Adjusted operating income (and adjusted operating margin), Adjusted net income attributable to IDEX, Adjusted diluted earnings per share (“EPS”) attributable to IDEX, Earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”) and Adjusted EBITDA to its respective most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure. Management uses these metrics to measure performance of the Company since they exclude items that are not reflective of ongoing operations, such as fair value inventory step-up charges, restructuring expenses and asset impairments, the impact of the settlement for a corporate transaction indemnity, losses on early debt redemptions and the loss related to the termination of the U.S. pension plan, net of curtailment. Management also supplements its U.S. GAAP financial statements with adjusted information to provide investors with greater insight, transparency and a more comprehensive understanding of the information used by management in its financial and operational decision making. The reconciliation of segment EBITDA and Adjusted segment EBITDA to net income was performed on a consolidated basis due to the fact that the Company does not allocate consolidated interest expense or the consolidated provision for income taxes to its segments. This report references organic sales and organic operating income, non-GAAP measures, that exclude (1) the impact of foreign currency translation and (2) sales and operating income, respectively, from acquired or divested businesses during the first 12 months of ownership or prior to divestiture. The portion of sales and operating income attributable to foreign currency translation is calculated as the difference between (a) the period-to-period change in organic sales and organic operating income, respectively, and (b) the period-to-period change in organic sales and organic operating income, respectively, after applying prior period foreign exchange rates to the current year period. Management believes that reporting organic sales and organic operating income provides useful information to investors by helping to identify underlying growth trends in the Company’s business and facilitating easier comparisons of the Company’s revenue and operating performance with prior and future periods and to its peers. The Company excludes the effect of foreign currency translation from organic sales and organic operating income because foreign currency translation is not under management’s control, is subject to volatility and can obscure underlying business trends. The Company excludes the effect of acquisitions and divestitures because they can obscure underlying business trends and make comparisons of long-term performance difficult due to the varying nature, size and number of transactions from period to period and between the Company and its peers. Given the acquisitive nature of the Company, which results in a higher level of amortization expense from recently acquired businesses, management uses EBITDA as an internal operating metric to provide another representation of the businesses’ performance across the Company’s three segments and for enterprise valuation purposes. Management believes that EBITDA is useful to investors as an indicator of the strength and performance of the Company and a way to evaluate and compare operating performance and value companies within the Company’s industry. Management believes that EBITDA margin is useful for the same reason as EBITDA. EBITDA is also used to calculate certain financial covenants, as discussed in in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” such as EBITDA interest coverage, which is EBITDA divided by consolidated interest expense. In addition, this report presents Adjusted EBITDA, which is EBITDA adjusted for items that are not reflective of ongoing operations as discussed above and Adjusted EBITDA interest coverage, which is Adjusted EBITDA divided by consolidated interest expense. Management believes that Adjusted EBITDA is useful as a performance indicator of ongoing operations. The Company believes that Adjusted EBITDA is also useful to some investors as an indicator of the strength and performance of the Company and its segments’ ongoing business operations and a way to evaluate and compare operating performance and value companies within the Company’s industry. The definition of Adjusted EBITDA used here may differ from that used by other companies. This report also references free cash flow. This non-GAAP measure is discussed and reconciled to its most directly comparable GAAP measure in the section above titled “Cash Flow Summary.” The non-GAAP financial measures disclosed by the Company should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The financial results prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP and the reconciliations from these results should be carefully evaluated. (1) EBITDA, a non-GAAP financial measure, is reconciled to net income, its most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measure, immediately above in Table 5. 30