********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

For an enterprise as diverse and complex as the Company, a wide range of factors present risks to the Company and could materially affect future developments and performance. In addition to the factors affecting specific business operations identified in connection with the description of the Company’s operations and the financial results of its operations elsewhere in this report, the most material of these factors are included below. Current global economic events and conditions may amplify many of these risks. These risks are not the only risks that may affect the Company. Additional risks that the Company is not aware of or does not believe are material at the time of this filing may also become important factors that adversely affect the Company’s business. Risks Related to the Company’s Operations The Company’s Inability to Continue to Develop New Products Could Limit Sales Growth. The Company’s ability to continue to grow organically is tied in large part to its ability to continue to develop new products. A failure to continue to develop and deliver new, innovative and competitive products to the market could limit sales growth and negatively impact the Company and its financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. The Company’s Growth Strategy Includes Acquisitions and the Company May Not be Able to Make Acquisitions of Suitable Candidates or Integrate Acquisitions Successfully. The Company’s historical growth has included, and the Company’s future growth is likely to continue to include, acquisitions. The Company intends to continue to seek acquisition opportunities both to expand into new markets and to enhance its position in existing markets throughout the world. The Company may not be able to successfully identify suitable candidates, negotiate appropriate acquisition terms, obtain financing needed to consummate those acquisitions, complete proposed acquisitions or successfully integrate acquired businesses into its existing operations. In addition, any acquisition, once successfully integrated, may not perform as planned, be accretive to earnings, or otherwise prove beneficial to the Company. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including the assumption of undisclosed, uninsured or unindemnified liabilities; difficulties in the assimilation of the operations, technologies, services and products of the acquired companies and the diversion of management’s attention from other business concerns. In addition, prior acquisitions have resulted in, and future acquisitions could result in, the incurrence of substantial additional indebtedness and other expenses. The Markets Served by the Company are Highly Competitive and this Competition Could Reduce Sales and Profit Margins. Most of the Company’s products are sold in competitive markets. Maintaining and improving a competitive position will require continued investment in manufacturing, engineering, quality standards, marketing, technology, customer service and support and distribution networks. The Company may not be successful in maintaining its competitive position. The Company’s competitors may develop products that are superior, may develop methods of more efficiently and effectively providing products and services or may adapt quicker to new technologies or evolving customer requirements. Additionally, the Company’s competitors may adopt new technologies and technological advancements using artificial intelligence and machine learning to pursue new products and approaches more quickly, successfully and effectively than the Company. The Company may not be able to compete successfully with existing competitors or with new competitors. Pricing pressures may require the Company to adjust the prices of products to stay competitive. Failure to continue competing successfully could reduce sales, profit margins and overall financial performance. The Company is Dependent on the Availability of Raw Materials, Parts and Components Used in Its Products and Changes in Supply of, or Price for, Raw Materials, Parts and Components May Materially Adversely Affect the Company. While the Company manufactures certain parts and components used in its products, the Company also requires substantial amounts of raw materials and purchases certain parts and components from suppliers. The availability of and prices for raw materials, parts and components may be subject to curtailment or change due to, among other things, suppliers’ allocations to other purchasers, interruptions in production by suppliers, including due to geopolitical or civil unrest, unfavorable economic or industry conditions, labor disruptions, supply chain disruptions, catastrophic weather events, natural disasters, public health concerns, changes in exchange rates and prevailing price levels. Any change in the supply of, or price for, raw materials or parts and components could materially affect the Company and its financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. 15 The Company’s Business Operations May Be Materially Adversely Affected by Information Systems Interruptions or Intrusion, Including those Arising From Cybersecurity Attacks or Incidents or Violations of Laws Regulating Privacy and Data Security. The Company depends on various internal and third party information technologies to administer, store, process and transmit electronic information (including sensitive or controlled data such as confidential business information and personal data relating to employees, customers and other business partners) and to support a variety of critical business activities. Our business has an increasing reliance on IT systems and a growing digital footprint as a result of changing technologies, increasing connected devices and digital offerings, and an increase in remote and hybrid workforce populations. Additionally, some of our products contain computer hardware and software and offer the ability to connect to computer networks. Our customers, including government customers, are also requiring cybersecurity protections and mandating cybersecurity standards for our businesses with more frequency. If the Company’s systems, technologies, products or services (including those we acquire through business acquisitions), or the systems, technologies, products or services of the Company’s customers or third-party hosting services (including third-party data centers and cloud platforms upon which we rely), are damaged or cease to function properly, or if the Company or third-party hosting service systems are subject to deliberate cyber-security attacks, such as those involving unauthorized access or malicious software, or unintentional cybersecurity incidents, such as those involving systems misconfigurations, misuse or human error and/or other intrusions, the Company, its operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely impacted. These impacts could include production downtimes, operational delays or other detrimental impacts on operations or the ability to provide products and services to customers; the compromise, destruction, corruption or theft of confidential or otherwise protected information, data or intellectual property; security breaches; other manipulation or improper use of the Company’s systems or networks; financial losses from fraudulent transactions; financial losses from remedial actions; loss of business or potential liability; adverse media coverage; legal claims or legal proceedings including regulatory investigations, actions, penalties or fines, including those arising from the violation of any applicable data privacy laws; and/or damage to the Company’s reputation. While we have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, these types of threats and incidents, based on our analysis at this time, we have not experienced a cybersecurity threat or incident that we believe has or is reasonably likely to materially affect the Company. As a global organization, we are also subject to data privacy and security laws, regulations and customer-imposed controls in numerous jurisdictions as a result of having access to and processing confidential, personal and/or sensitive data in the course of our business. Governmental investigations and enforcement actions can be costly and interrupt the regular operations of our business, and data breaches or violations of data privacy laws can result in civil and criminal, monetary and non-monetary penalties and damages to our reputation, any of which may adversely affect our business and financial statements. As cybersecurity threats continue to evolve and as cybersecurity and data protection laws and regulations continue to develop globally, we expect to expend additional resources to continue to develop our compliance programs, strengthen our information security, data protection, disaster recovery and business continuity measures, and investigate and remediate vulnerabilities. There has been a rise in the number of cyberattacks targeting confidential business information generally and in the manufacturing industry specifically by both state-sponsored and criminal organizations. These may include such things as denial of service attacks, introduction of ransomware or other malicious software programs, and other disruptive problems. In addition, there has been a rise in the number of cyberattacks that depend on human error or manipulation, including phishing attacks or schemes that use social engineering to gain access to systems or perpetuate wire transfer or other frauds. Moreover, the rapid evolution and increased adoption of artificial intelligence technologies may intensify our cybersecurity risks. These trends increase the likelihood of such events occurring. The Company regularly identifies, defends against and responds to cyber threats and security incidents. While the Company attempts to mitigate cybersecurity risks by employing a number of measures, including employee training, technical security controls and maintenance of certain backup and protective systems, the Company’s systems, networks, products and services remain potentially vulnerable to known or unknown threats or other intrusions, and there are risks that our cybersecurity defenses will be insufficient to fully mitigate cyber risks and losses related to cybersecurity events, any of which may result in a material adverse effect on the Company and its financial condition or results of operations. Moreover, until we have migrated businesses we acquire onto our IT systems or ensured compliance with our information technology and cybersecurity standards, we have in the past and may in the future face additional risks because of the continued use of predecessor IT systems, procedures and cybersecurity risk mitigation measures. Given the unpredictability, nature and scope of cybersecurity attacks and incidents, it is possible that potential vulnerabilities could go undetected for an extended period, and it could take considerable time for the Company to obtain full and reliable information as to the extent, amount and type of information and/or systems compromised. Any imposition of liability, particularly liability that is not covered by insurance or is in excess of our insurance coverage, could materially adversely harm our operating results and financial condition. 16 Uncertainty Related to Environmental Regulation, Industry Standards, or Other Risks Associated with a Potential Global Transition to a Lower-Carbon Economy, as well as Physical Risks of Climate Change, Could Adversely Impact the Company's Results of Operations and Financial Position. Increased public awareness and concern regarding environmental risks, including global climate change and the potential global transition to a lower-carbon economy, may result in more international, regional, federal and/or state requirements or industry standards to reduce or mitigate global warming and other environmental risks. New climate change laws and regulations could require the Company to change its manufacturing processes or obtain substitute materials that may cost more or be less available for its manufacturing operations. Various jurisdictions in which the Company does business have implemented, or in the future could implement or amend, restrictions on emissions of carbon dioxide or other greenhouse gases, taxation of or caps on the use of carbon-based energy, limitations or restrictions on water use, limitations or restrictions on the production of single use plastics, regulations on energy management and waste management and other rules and regulations to address climate change and other environmental risks, which may increase the Company’s expenses and adversely affect its operating results. In addition to changes in regulations or industry standards, a failure by the Company to innovate and adapt products to new markets, changing customer preferences for higher-efficiency products, or increasing scrutiny around fossil fuels usage could limit sales growth and negatively impact the Company and its financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. The physical risks of climate change are highly uncertain and differ in the geographic regions in which the Company operates. These physical risks, including wildfires, rising sea levels, floods and other extreme weather events, may impact the availability and cost of materials, sources and supply of energy, product demand and manufacturing and could increase insurance and other operating costs. Any future increased worldwide regulatory activity relating to climate change could expand the nature, scope and complexity of matters that the Company is required to control, assess and report. If environmental laws or regulations or industry standards are either changed or adopted and impose significant operational restrictions and compliance requirements upon the Company, its suppliers, its customers or its products, or the Company's operations are disrupted due to physical impacts of climate change on the Company, its customers or its suppliers, the Company's business, results of operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted. Further, any failure to adequately address stakeholder expectations or to achieve previously announced initiatives or goals with respect to sustainability or environmental, social and governance matters may adversely impact our reputation, business, financial condition and results of operations. Business Disruptions Due to Catastrophic Weather Events, Natural Disasters and Public Health Threats Could Adversely Affect the Company. The Company faces various risks related to the occurrence of catastrophic weather events or significant natural disasters, including earthquakes, wildfires, droughts, fires, power-outages or other catastrophic events, in areas in which we have manufacturing facilities or from which we obtain products. Severe weather conditions, including any that may be caused or exacerbated by global climate change, may cause physical damage to our properties, closure of one or more of our manufacturing or distribution facilities, lack of an adequate work force in a market, temporary disruption in the supply of inventory, disruption in the transport of products and utilities and delays in the delivery of products to our customers. Additionally, public health threats may negatively impact the global economy by causing changes in consumer behavior, market downturns, restrictions on business and individual activities and increased volatility. Any widespread public health threats could have a significant impact on the Company’s supply chain, such as the Company experienced during the global outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. To the extent that any of the foregoing adversely affect the Company and its financial results, they may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks described in , “Risk Factors” of this annual report, such as those relating to international operations, the Company’s ability to develop new products, the Company’s ability to execute on its growth strategy of acquisitions, the Company’s dependency on raw materials, parts and components, the effects on movements in foreign currency exchange rates on the Company, the effects on the Company that result from declines in commodity prices and the Company’s reliance on labor availability to operate and grow the business. Risks Related to Economic and Political Conditions A Slowdown in the U.S. or International Economy Could Materially Adversely Affect the Sales and Profitability of the Company’s Businesses. In 2023, 50% of the Company’s sales were derived from domestic operations and 50% were derived from international operations. The Company’s largest end markets include industrial, fire and safety, energy, life sciences, water and wastewater treatment, semiconductor, automotive, analytical instruments, food and pharmaceuticals, paint, agriculture and chemical 17 processing. A slowdown in the U.S. or global economy and, in particular, any of these specific end markets could materially reduce the Company’s sales and profitability. Changes to Geopolitical and Economic Conditions in the U.S. and Foreign Countries in Which the Company Operates Could Adversely Affect the Company. The Company expects international operations and export sales to continue to be significant for the foreseeable future. The Company’s sales from international operations and sales from export are both subject in varying degrees to risks inherent in doing business outside the U.S. These risks include the following: • possibility of unfavorable circumstances arising from host country laws or regulations and the risks related to required compliance with local laws; • risks of economic instability, including due to inflation; • currency exchange rate fluctuations and restrictions on currency repatriation; • potential negative consequences from changes to taxation policies; • disruption of operations from labor and political disturbances; • withdrawal from or renegotiation of international trade agreements and other restrictions on the trade between the United States and other countries; • the imposition of and changes in the United States’ and other governments’ trade regulations, trade wars, tariffs and other trade barriers, including as a result of geopolitical developments (such as escalating tensions in the Middle East) and relations between the United States and China and the United States and Russia; and • geopolitical events, including natural disasters, catastrophic weather events, climate change, public health conditions, including epidemics, pandemics and other outbreaks (such as the global outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic), political instability or other geopolitical events, including civil or political unrest, terrorism, insurrection or war. Any of these events could have a materially adverse impact on the Company and its operations. Significant Movements in Foreign Currency Exchange Rates May Harm the Company’s Financial Results. The Company is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly with respect to the Euro, Swiss Franc, Canadian Dollar, British Pound, Indian Rupee, Chinese Renminbi, Swedish Krona and Brazilian Real. Any significant change in the value of the currencies of the countries in which the Company does business against the U.S. Dollar could affect the Company’s ability to sell products competitively and control its cost structure, which could have a material adverse effect on results of operations. For additional detail related to this risk, see Part II, , “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.” Fluctuations in Interest Rates Could Adversely Affect the Company’s Results of Operations and Financial Position. The Company’s profitability may be adversely affected during any periods of unexpected or rapid increases in interest rates. The Company maintains a Credit Agreement with a revolving credit facility (the “Revolving Facility”) in an aggregate principal amount of $800 million and a term credit facility (the “Term Facility”) in an aggregate principal amount of $200 million (together, the “Credit Facility”), which bears interest at either an alternate base rate or adjusted Term SOFR (or appropriate alternative currency reference rates) plus, in each case, an applicable margin based on the lower of the Company’s senior, unsecured, long-term debt rating or the Company’s applicable leverage ratio. A significant increase in Term SOFR or the other rates the Company has agreed to use as an alternative to Term SOFR (should Term SOFR become unavailable) under the Credit Facility, as amended, would significantly increase the Company’s cost of borrowings. Further, any changes in regulatory standards or industry practices, such as the discontinuation of the use of Term SOFR and/or the transition to alternative benchmark rates may result in the usage of higher interest rates under the Credit Facility, and the Company’s current or future indebtedness may be adversely affected. The Company is also exposed to risks if the U.S. Federal Reserve raises its benchmark interest rate, which may reduce the availability of and increase the cost of obtaining new debt and refinancing existing indebtedness. For additional detail related to this risk, see Part II, , "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk." 18 A Significant or Sustained Decline in Commodity Prices, Including Oil, Could Negatively Impact the Levels of Expenditures by Certain of the Company’s Customers. Demand for the Company’s products depends, in part, on the level of new and planned expenditures by certain of its customers. The level of expenditures by the Company’s customers is dependent on, among other factors, general economic conditions, availability of credit, economic conditions within their respective industries and expectations of future market behavior. Volatility in commodity prices, including oil, can negatively affect the level of these activities and can result in postponement of capital spending decisions or the delay or cancellation of existing orders. The ability of the Company’s customers to finance capital investment and maintenance may also be affected by the conditions in their industries. Reduced demand for the Company’s products could result in the delay or cancellation of existing orders or lead to excess manufacturing capacity, which unfavorably impacts the absorption of fixed manufacturing costs. This reduced demand could have a material adverse effect on the Company and its financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Legal, Accounting and Regulatory Matters An Unfavorable Outcome of Any Pending Contingencies or Litigation Could Adversely Affect the Company. The Company is currently involved in pending and threatened legal, regulatory and other proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. These proceedings may pertain to matters such as product liability or contract disputes, and may also involve governmental inquiries, inspections, audits or investigations relating to issues such as tax matters, intellectual property, environmental, health and safety issues, governmental regulations, employment and other matters. Where it is reasonably possible to do so, the Company accrues estimates of the probable costs for the resolution of these matters. These estimates are developed in consultation with outside counsel and are based upon an analysis of potential results and the availability of insurance coverage, assuming a combination of litigation and settlement strategies. It is possible, however, that future operating results for any particular quarter or annual period could be materially affected by changes in assumptions, the continued availability of insurance coverage or the effectiveness of the Company’s strategies related to these proceedings. For additional detail related to this risk, see , “Legal Proceedings” and in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” Failure to Adequately Protect the Company’s Intellectual Property and the Risk of Disputes Involving Intellectual Property Infringement Could Adversely Impact the Company’s Competitive Position, Results of Operations, and Financial Condition. The Company owns patents, trademarks, licenses and other forms of intellectual property related to its products and continuously invests in research and development that may result in technological innovations and general intellectual property rights. The Company employs various measures to develop, maintain and protect its intellectual property rights. If these measures are not effective, or if the Company’s intellectual property is otherwise infringed, challenged, invalidated or circumvented, the Company may face adverse impacts to its results of operations and/or financial condition. Further, if intellectual property is infringed, challenged, invalidated or circumvented, this could reduce barriers to entry into the Company’s existing lines of business and may result in a loss of market share and adversely impact the Company’s competitive position. Additionally, the Company has registered intellectual property in multiple countries, and the Company’s ability to protect and enforce its intellectual property rights may be limited in foreign countries due to differences in intellectual property protections or proprietary rights laws. If the Company’s intellectual property is infringed, challenged, invalidated or circumvented due to these lesser protections, the Company may face adverse impacts to its results of operations, financial condition and/or competitive position. Litigation may be necessary to enforce the Company’s intellectual property rights or to defend against infringement claims by third parties. Any litigation or claims brought by the Company could result in costs and diversion of resources, which could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and/or financial condition. Any intellectual property litigation or claims brought against the Company may lead to litigation expenses, diversion of resources, losses or licensing expenses or the cessation of selling certain products, any of which could adversely affect the Company’s results of operations and/or financial condition. The Company’s Intangible Assets, Including Goodwill, are a Significant Portion of Total Assets and a Write-off of Intangible Assets or Goodwill Would Adversely Impact the Company’s Operating Results and Significantly Reduce the Company’s Net Worth. The Company’s total assets includes substantial intangible assets, primarily goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, which primarily result from acquisitions. At December 31, 2023, goodwill and intangible assets totaled $2,838.3 million and 19 $1,011.8 million, respectively. Annually, or when certain events occur that require a more current valuation, the Company assesses whether there has been an impairment in the value of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets. If future operating performance at one or more of the Company’s reporting units were to fall significantly below forecasted levels, the Company could be required to reflect, under current applicable accounting rules, a non-cash charge to operating income for an impairment. Any determination requiring the write-off of a significant portion of goodwill or identifiable intangible assets would adversely impact the Company’s results of operations and net worth. See in Part II, Item 8, “Financial Statements and Supplementary Data” for further discussion on goodwill and intangible assets. The Company May Face Adverse Effects Resulting from Improper Conduct by Our Employees, Agents or Business Partners. While we strive to maintain high standards, the Company cannot guarantee that our internal controls and compliance systems will always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by employees, agents or business partners of ours (or businesses that we acquire or partner with) that would violate laws in the U.S. or foreign countries in which the Company operates, including laws governing payment to government officials, bribery, fraud, conflicts of interest, competition, employment practices and workplace behavior, export and import compliance, economic and trade sanctions, money laundering and data privacy. In particular, recent years have seen a substantial increase in anti-bribery law enforcement activity with more frequent and aggressive investigations and enforcement proceedings by both the Department of Justice and the SEC, increased enforcement activity by non-U.S. regulators and increases in criminal and civil proceedings brought against companies and individuals. The Company’s policies mandate compliance with all anti-bribery laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and similar anti-bribery laws in other jurisdictions which generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. However, the Company operates in certain countries that are recognized as having governmental and commercial corruption. Violations of any of these laws may result in criminal or civil sanctions or penalties, both monetary and non-monetary, increased costs of compliance and/or damage to our reputation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the Company and its financial condition and results of operations. General Risk Factors A Failure to Retain Executive Management and Key Personnel or Recruit Adequate Successors May Adversely Affect the Company’s Operations and Implementation of Strategy. The Company’s future success depends to a significant degree on the skills, experience and efforts of its executive management and other key personnel and their ability to provide the Company with uninterrupted leadership and direction. The loss of the services of any of the executive officers or other key personnel or a failure to provide adequate succession plans for these individuals could have an adverse impact on the Company’s operations and implementation of its strategic plan. The availability of highly qualified talent is limited and the competition for talent is robust. Challenges with Respect to Labor Availability Could Negatively Impact the Company’s Ability to Operate or Grow the Business. The Company’s success depends in part on the ability of its businesses to proactively attract, motivate and retain a qualified and highly skilled workforce in an intensely competitive labor market. A failure to attract, motivate and retain highly skilled personnel could adversely affect the Company’s operating results or its ability to operate or grow the business. Additionally, any labor stoppages or labor disruptions, including due to geopolitical unrest, unfavorable economic or industry conditions, catastrophic weather events, natural disasters or public health threats could adversely affect the Company’s operating results or its ability to operate or grow the business.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes in this annual report. This discussion may contain forward-looking statements based upon current expectations that involve risks and uncertainties. The Company’s actual results and the timing of selected events could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of several factors, including those set forth under , “Risk Factors” and under the heading “Cautionary Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act” discussed elsewhere in this annual report. This discussion includes certain non-GAAP financial measures that have been defined and reconciled to their most directly comparable financial measure prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S. GAAP”) under the headings “Non-GAAP Disclosures” and “Free Cash Flow.” This discussion also includes Operating working capital which has been defined under the heading “Liquidity and Capital Resources.” The non-GAAP financial measures disclosed by the Company should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The financial results prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP and the reconciliations from these results should be carefully evaluated. 2023 Overview IDEX is an applied solutions provider specializing in the manufacture of fluid and metering technologies, health and science technologies and fire, safety and other diversified products built to customers’ specifications. IDEX’s products are sold in niche markets across a wide range of industries throughout the world. Accordingly, IDEX’s businesses are affected by levels of industrial activity and economic conditions in the U.S. and in other countries where it does business, as well as by the relationship of the U.S. dollar to other currencies. Levels of capacity utilization and capital spending in certain industries and overall industrial activity are important factors that influence the demand for IDEX’s products. During 2023, the Company delivered strong operating performance amid sharp volume declines as customers recalibrated inventory levels and order patterns following the easing of global supply chain constraints and reduced lead times.  While customer inventory destocking resulted in lower sales volumes, most prominently experienced by the Company’s Health & Science Technologies segment, the Company realized strong price/cost and achieved favorable operational productivity across its segments. Net income attributable to IDEX and Adjusted EBITDA were $ 596.1 million and $899.6 million, respectively, in 2023, both up 2% from the prior year. Cash flows from operating activities were $ 716.7 million during the year ended December 31, 2023, reflecting inventory reduction efforts and resulting in record free cash flow of $626.8 million during the year. Finally, the Company deployed capital with the acquisition of two businesses – Iridian Spectral Technologies (“Iridian”) and STC Material Solutions (“STC”). 25 Select key financial results for the year ended December 31, 2023 when compared to 2022 were as follows: *These are non-GAAP measures. See the definitions of these non-GAAP measures and reconciliations to their most directly comparable GAAP financial measures under the headings “Non-GAAP Disclosures” and “Free Cash Flow.” 2024 Outlook Moving into 2024, the majority of our businesses are currently experiencing stable demand and seeing early signs of improvement, particularly in the Fluid & Metering Technologies segment. However, while the life sciences and analytical instrumentation markets served by approximately one-third of the Health & Science Technologies segment appear stable, these markets are not yet showing signs of near-term recovery. We continue to believe in the long-term growth potential of these end markets and believe we are well positioned to support growth as demand increases. Additionally, we expect the Dispensing reporting unit within the Company’s Fire & Safety/Diversified Products segment to contract in 2024, due to the completion of the fleet refreshment cycle of our North American customers in 2023. These declines are expected to be partly offset by growth in the Dispensing reporting unit in emerging markets and growth in the Fire & Safety and BAND-IT reporting units. 26 Results of Operations The following is a discussion and analysis of the Company’s results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2023 compared with the year ended December 31, 2022. For the discussion related to the consolidated results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared with the year ended December 31, 2021, refer to the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022, which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on February 23, 2023. Performance in 2023 Compared with 2022 Net Sales Net sales increased 3% as compared to the prior year, driven by a 5% increase in acquisitions, net of divestitures, partially offset by a 1% decrease in organic sales and a 1% decrease due to the acceleration of previously deferred revenue related to the exit of a COVID-19 testing application in 2022 that did not reoccur in 2023 (see in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail). The decrease in organic sales was driven by lower volumes as a result of market conditions during the year, particularly in the Health & Science Technologies businesses, partially offset by price capture across all segments. Net sales decreased 1% domestically and increased 7% internationally, and sales to customers outside the U.S. were approximately 50% of total sales in 2023 compared with 48% in 2022. Gross Profit and Gross Margin Gross profit and Gross margin were positively impacted by price/cost and strong operational productivity as well as lower fair value inventory step-up charges, and negatively impacted by lower volume leverage, higher employee-related costs, unfavorable mix and the acceleration of previously deferred revenue related to the exit of a COVID-19 testing application in 2022 that did not reoccur in 2023. While acquisitions, net of divestitures also positively impacted Gross profit, they resulted in a dilutive impact to overall Gross margin. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses increased primarily due to the $49.1 million impact from acquisitions, including amortization, net of divestitures, as well as increases in employee-related costs, which were largely offset by a decrease in variable compensation. 27 Restructuring Expenses and Asset Impairments Restructuring expenses and asset impairments decreased primarily due to an asset impairment charge of $16.8 million related to the exit of a COVID-19 testing application in 2022, partially offset by higher severance costs in 2023 incurred in conjunction with cost mitigation efforts as a result of current market conditions. See in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail. Gain on Sale of Businesses - Net In 2023, the Company completed the sale of Micropump for proceeds of $110.3 million, net of cash remitted, which resulted in a pre-tax gain of $93.8 million, and the sale of Novotema, SpA (“Novotema”) for proceeds of $8.3 million, net of cash remitted, which resulted in a loss of $9.1 million. In 2022, the Company completed the sale of Knight LLC (“Knight”) for proceeds of $49.4 million, net of cash remitted, which resulted in a pre-tax gain of $34.8 million. Other Expense (Income) - Net Other expense (income) - net was $5.2 million of expense in 2023 compared to $3.9 million of income in 2022. The increase in expense was primarily due to a $7.7 million credit loss reserve on an investment with a collaborative partner (see in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail), higher foreign currency transaction losses and $2.7 million of gains on the sale of assets in 2022 that did not reoccur in 2023, partially offset by higher interest earned on cash balances and gains on the sale of trading securities in 2023. Interest Expense Interest expense increased primarily due to the borrowings incurred under the Credit Facility in connection with the acquisition of Muon B.V. and its subsidiaries (“Muon Group”) in November 2022 as well as higher interest rates on the Company’s indebtedness. Income Taxes The Company’s provision for income taxes is based upon estimated annual tax rates for the year applied to federal, state and foreign income. The provision for income taxes increased $2.0 million to $164.7 million in 2023 as compared with $162.7 million in 2022. The 2023 effective tax rate of 21.7% remained unchanged compared with the 2022 effective tax rate. In October 2021, members of the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (“OECD”) and G20 Inclusive Framework on Base Erosion and Profit Shifting agreed to a two-pillar solution to address the tax challenges associated with the digitalization of the economy. In December 2021, the OECD released the Pillar Two Model Rules (“Pillar Two”), which define the global minimum tax and call for the taxation of large corporations at a minimum rate of 15%. Although it is uncertain when and how the rules will be fully enacted into law, based on our initial assessment, nearly all of the jurisdictions in which the Company operates have an effective tax rate above the 15% threshold. Therefore, the Company does not expect a material impact from the Pillar Two income tax rules. Results of Reportable Business Segments The Company has three reportable segments: Fluid & Metering Technologies (“FMT”), Health & Science Technologies (“HST”) and Fire & Safety/Diversified Products (“FSDP”). For a detailed description of the operations within each segment, please refer to Part I, , “ Business ” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Management’s primary measurements of segment performance are Net sales, adjusted earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization (“Adjusted EBITDA”) and Adjusted EBITDA margin. 28 Fluid & Metering Technologies Segment (1) Based on the timing of the acquisitions, Nexsight, LLC and its businesses Envirosight, WinCan, MyTana and Pipeline Renewal Technologies (“Nexsight”) results for the first three months of 2023 and KZ CO. (“KZValve”) results for the first four months of 2023 are reflected in the acquisitions/divestitures column while the remaining year-over-year impact is included in the organic column. (2) Divestitures included Knight sold in September 2022. • Organic net sales were positively impacted by the following: ◦ Water reporting unit driven by price capture, favorability in the municipal water market and operational execution; ◦ Energy reporting unit driven by operational execution related to backlog reduction, improved supply chain conditions, price capture and growth initiatives; ◦ Valves reporting unit driven by strong price capture and demand in Asia; and ◦ Pumps reporting unit driven by strong price capture and operational execution, which more than offset the impact of lower volumes in the industrial market. Organic net sales were negatively impacted by the Agriculture reporting unit driven by distribution inventory recalibration, partially offset by positive original equipment manufacturer demand. • The increase in Adjusted EBITDA margin was primarily due to strong price/cost and operational productivity, partially offset by higher employee-related costs, unfavorable mix and lower volume leverage. Health & Science Technologies Segment (1) Based on the timing of the acquisition, Muon Group results for the first 10.5 months of 2023 are reflected in the acquisitions/divestitures column while the remaining year-over-year impact is included in the organic column. (2) Acquisitions included Iridian acquired in May 2023 and STC acquired in December 2023. Divestitures included Micropump sold in August 2023 and Novotema sold in December 2023 . (3) Change in Net sales includes the acceleration of previously deferred revenue of $17.9 million as a result of a customer’s decision to discontinue further investment in commercializing its COVID-19 testing application in 2022 that did not reoccur in 2023, the impact of which was excluded from Adjusted net sales. See in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail. 29 • The decrease in organic net sales was attributed to the following: ◦ Scientific Fluidics & Optics reporting unit driven by lower demand from analytical instrumentation and life science original equipment manufacturers due to customer inventory recalibration and market slowing, partially offset by price capture and strong cost control; ◦ Sealing Solutions reporting unit driven by lower volumes in the semiconductor market; ◦ Material Processing Technologies reporting unit driven by lower volumes in the pharmaceuticals/biopharmaceuticals and food markets, partially offset by operational execution related to backlog reduction and price capture; and ◦ Performance Pneumatics Technologies reporting unit driven by the impact of lower volumes in the industrial market, partially offset by targeted growth performance and price capture. • The decrease in Adjusted EBITDA margin was primarily due to lower volume leverage, higher employee-related costs and unfavorable mix, partially offset by strong operational productivity and price/cost. Fire & Safety/Diversified Products Segment • Organic net sales were positively impacted by the following: ◦ Fire & Safety reporting unit driven by price capture, continued demand for rescue tools, improved supply chain conditions and operational execution; and ◦ BAND-IT reporting unit driven by continued share gain in an otherwise flat automotive market. Organic net sales had no impact from the Dispensing reporting unit as organic sales were flat. Price capture was fully offset by lower volumes. • The increase in Adjusted EBITDA margin was primarily due to strong price/cost and favorable operational productivity, partially offset by higher employee-related costs. Liquidity and Capital Resources Liquidity Based on management’s current expectations and currently available information, the Company believes current cash, cash from operations and cash available under the Revolving Facility will be sufficient to meet its operating cash requirements, planned capital expenditures, interest and principal payments on all borrowings, pension and postretirement funding requirements, share repurchases and quarterly dividend payments to holders of the Company’s common stock for the foreseeable future . Additionally, in the event that suitable businesses are available for acquisition upon acceptable terms, the Company may obtain all or a portion of the financing for these acquisitions through the incurrence of additional borrowings. 30 Select key liquidity metrics at December 31, 2023 are as follows: The Company believes additional borrowings through various financing alternatives remain available, if required. Operating Working Capital Operating working capital, calculated as Receivables - net plus Inventories - net minus Trade accounts payable, is used by management as a measurement of operational results as well as the short-term liquidity of the Company. The following table details Operating working capital as of December 31, 2023 and 2022: Operating working capital decreased $35.9 million to $668.9 million at December 31, 2023. Acquisitions, divestitures and foreign currency translation increased Operating working capital by $17.5 million during 2023. Apart from these items, reduced inventory levels were partly offset by lower levels of accounts payable, and strong price capture partially offset the impact of lower volume on receivables. 31 Cash Flow Summary The following table is derived from the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows: Operating Activities Cash flows provided by operating activities increased $159.3 million to $716.7 million in 2023 primarily due to lower working capital requirements in 2023 as a result of efforts to recalibrate inventory levels in response to normalizing market conditions. The prior year period included higher working capital requirements related to higher volumes and increased inventories to support production amid supply chain challenges. Investing Activities Cash flows used in investing activities decreased in 2023 primarily due to the purchase of Iridian and STC in 2023 for $311.8 million as compared with the purchases of Nexsight, KZValve and Muon Group in 2022 for $945.6 million as well as proceeds of $118.6 million in 2023 from the sales of Micropump and Novotema as compared with $49.4 million in 2022 from the sale of Knight.  These items were partially offset by higher capital expenditures of $89.9 million in 2023 as compared with $68.0 million in 2022. Financing Activities Cash flows used in financing activities in 2023 primarily consisted of dividends of $190.7 million paid to common shareholders, payments of $150.0 million on the Term Facility, and the repurchase of shares for $24.2 million. Additionally, in 2023, proceeds of $100.0 million from the issuance of the 5.13% Senior Notes were used to redeem the $100.0 million of the Company’s 3.20% Senior Notes due June 13, 2025 (the “3.20% Senior Notes”) outstanding. Cash flows used in financing activities in 2022 primarily consisted of dividends of $177.4 million paid to common shareholders and the repurchase of shares for $148.1 million. These outflows were partially offset by net proceeds of $75.4 million under the Revolving Facility and $200.0 million under the Term Facility, which were used to fund the Muon Group acquisition. Free Cash Flow The Company believes free cash flow, a non-GAAP measure, is an important measure of performance because it provides a measurement of cash generated from operations that is available for payment obligations such as operating cash requirements, planned capital expenditures, interest and principal payments on all borrowings, pension and postretirement funding requirements and quarterly dividend payments to holders of the Company’s common stock as well as for funding acquisitions and share repurchases. Free cash flow is calculated as cash flows provided by operating activities less capital expenditures. The following table reconciles free cash flow to cash flows provided by operating activities: The increase in free cash flow as compared to 2022 is due to lower working capital requirements in 2023 discussed above as compared with 2022, partially offset by higher capital expenditures. 32 Cash Requirements Contractu al Obligations The Company’s cash requirements under contractual obligations include: • Borrowings and related interest - See in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail of the Company’s debt and timing of expected future principal payments. • Rental payments under operating leases - See in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail of our obligations and the timing of expected future payments. • Purchase obligations - The Company enters into purchase orders with vendors and other parties in the ordinary course of business. As of December 31, 2023, the Company’s purchase obligations, consisting primarily of inventory commitments, totaled approximately $265.6 million, of which $238.1 million is expected to be settled during 2024 and the remainder thereafter. • Pension and post-retirement medical benefit plans - See in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail of our obligations and the timing of expected future payments. Capital Expenditures Capital expenditures generally include machinery and equipment that support growth and improved productivity, tooling, business system technology, replacement of equipment and investments in new facilities. The Company believes it has sufficient operating cash flows to continue to meet current obligations and invest in planned capital expenditures. C ash flows from operations were more than adequate to fund capital expenditures of $89.9 million and $68.0 million i n 2023 and 2022, respectively. Share Repurchases The Company repurchased 124,600 shares at a cost of $24.2 million i n 2023. The Company repurchased 795,423 shares at a cost of $148.1 million in 2022. As of December 31, 2023, the amount of share repurchase authorization remaining was $539.7 million. For additional information regarding the Company’s share repurchase program, refer to in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Dividends The Company increased its quarterly cash dividend by 7% from $0.60 per common share in 2022 to $0.64 per common share in 2023. Total dividend payments to common shareholders were $190.7 million in 2023 compared with $177.4 million in 2022. Covenants The key financial covenants that the Company is required to maintain in connection with the Revolving Facility, the Term Facility, the 3.37% Senior Notes and the 5.13% Senior Notes, are a minimum interest coverage ratio of 3.0 to 1 and a maximum leverage ratio of 3.50 to 1. At December 31, 2023, the Company was in compliance with both of these financial covenants, as the Company’s interest coverage ratio was 18.43 to 1 for covenant calculation purposes and the leverage ratio was 1.45 to 1. There are no financial covenants relating to the 2.625% Senior Notes or the 3.00% Senior Notes; however, both are subject to cross-default provisions. For a discussion of the Company’s Revolving Facility and Senior Notes as well as the associated covenants, refer to in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Credit Ratings The Company’s credit ratings, which were independently developed by the following credit agencies, are detailed below: • S&P Global Ratings reaffirmed the Company’s corporate credit rating of BBB (stable outlook) in August 2023. • Moody’s Investors Service affirmed the Company’s corporate credit rating of Baa2 (stable outlook) in December 2021. • Fitch Ratings reaffirmed the Company’s corporate credit rating of BBB+ (stable outlook) in April 2023. 33 Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company had $10.5 million of letters of credit as of December 31, 2023, primarily issued as security for insurance and other performance obligations. Of the $10.5 million of letters of credit, only $3.4 million reduced the Company’s borrowing capacity under the Revolving Facility as of December 31, 2023. Except as disclosed above, the Company has no off-balance sheet arrangements that currently have or are reasonably likely to have a material effect on the Company’s consolidated financial condition, changes in financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. Critical Accounting Estimates The Company believes that the application of the following accounting policy, which is important to its financial position and results of operations, requires significant judgments and estimates on the part of management. For a summary of the Company’s accounting policies, including the accounting policy discussed below, see in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets — Goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives, which consists solely of trade names, are not amortized; rather they are tested for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that the asset may be impaired. The Company follows the guidance prescribed in Accounting Standards Codification (“ASC”) 350, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets , to test goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment. In assessing goodwill for impairment, the Company determines the fair value of each reporting unit utilizing an income approach (discounted cash flows) weighted 50% and a market approach (consisting of a comparable public company multiples methodology) weighted 50%. To determine the reasonableness of the calculated fair values, the Company reviews the assumptions to ensure that neither the income approach nor the market approach yielded significantly different valuations. Key assumptions and estimates used in the goodwill impairment assessment are described below. Based on the results of the Company’s annual impairment test at October 31, 2023, all reporting units had fair values substantially in excess of their carrying values. The key assumptions are updated every year for each reporting unit for the income and market approaches used to determine the fair value. Various assumptions are utilized including forecasted operating results, annual operating plans, strategic plans, economic projections, anticipated future cash flows, the weighted average cost of capital, market data and market multiples. The assumptions that have the most significant effect on the fair value calculations are the weighted average cost of capital, market multiples, forecasted EBITDA and terminal growth rates. The following assumption ranges were utilized by the Company in 2023 and 2022: In assessing trade names for impairment, the Company uses the relief-from-royalty method, a form of the income approach, to determine the fair value of its trade names. The relief-from-royalty method is dependent on a number of significant management assumptions, including estimates of revenues, royalty rates and discount rates. Based on the results of the Company’s annual impairment test at October 31, 2023, the trade names had fair values in excess of their carrying values. The Company’s acquisitions have generally included significant goodwill components and the Company expects to continue to make acquisitions. At December 31, 2023, goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets totaled $2,929.2 million, or 50%, of the Company’s total assets. See in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion on goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets. 34 Non-GAAP Disclosures Set forth below are reconciliations of Organic net sales, Adjusted net sales, Adjusted gross profit, Adjusted gross margin, Adjusted net income attributable to IDEX, Adjusted diluted earnings per share (“EPS”) attributable to IDEX, Consolidated Adjusted earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization (“Adjusted EBITDA”) and Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA margin to their respective most directly comparable U.S. GAAP measure. Management uses these metrics to measure performance of the Company since they exclude items that are not reflective of ongoing operations, as identified in the reconciliations below. Management also supplements its U.S. GAAP financial statements with adjusted information to provide investors with greater insight, transparency and a more comprehensive understanding of the information used by management in its financial and operational decision making. Management uses Adjusted EBITDA as its principal measure of segment performance, and believes it is a useful indicator of the strength and performance of the Company and its segments’ ongoing business operations, as well as a way for investors to evaluate and compare operating performance and value companies within the Company’s industry. Management believes that Adjusted EBITDA margin is useful for the same reason as Adjusted EBITDA. The definition of Adjusted EBITDA used here may differ from that used by other companies. This report also references free cash flow. This non-GAAP measure is discussed and reconciled to its most directly comparable GAAP measure in the section above titled “Free Cash Flow.” The non-GAAP financial measures disclosed by the Company should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, financial measures prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Due to rounding, numbers presented throughout this and other documents may not add up or recalculate precisely. The financial results prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP and the reconciliations from these results should be carefully evaluated. All table footnotes can be found at the end of this Non-GAAP Disclosures section. (1) Represents the sales from acquired or divested businesses during the first 12 months of ownership or prior to divestiture. (2) The portion of sales attributable to foreign currency translation is calculated as the difference between (a) the period-to-period change in organic sales, and (b) the period-to-period change in organic sales after applying prior period foreign exchange rates to the current year period. (3) The impact to Net sales and Gross margin represents the acceleration of previously deferred revenue of $17.9 million as a result of a customer’s decision to discontinue further investment in commercializing its COVID-19 testing application in 2022 that did not reoccur in 2023, which was largely offset by an impairment charge during the same period resulting in a $1.1 million impact on net income. See in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail. (4) Represents a reserve recorded on an investment with a collaborative partner. See in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail.