********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

We are subject to a variety of possible risks that could adversely impact our revenues, results of operations or financial condition. Some of these risks relate to general economic and financial conditions, while others are more specific to us and the industry in which we operate. The following factors set out potential risks we have identified that could adversely affect us. The risks described below may not be the only risks we face. Additional risks that we do not yet know of, or that we currently think are immaterial, could also have a negative impact on our business operations or financial condition. See also Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Disclosure. Risks Related to the Global Market and the Economy • The continuing impact of the COVID-19 pandemic is highly uncertain and cannot be predicted and may adversely impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. The continuing global reach of COVID-19, including the emergence of new variants of the virus, has created significant worldwide operational volatility, uncertainty and disruption. The COVID-19 pandemic adversely impacted our business, financial condition and results of operations, particularly in the early months of the pandemic, and the extent of the continuing impact will depend on numerous evolving factors, which are highly uncertain, rapidly changing and unpredictable, including: • the duration, severity and scope of the pandemic, including as new variants emerge and spread; • governmental, business and individual actions that may be taken in response to the outbreak, including travel restrictions, quarantines, social distancing, work-at-home, and stay-at-home mandates and business shut-downs; • the effectiveness and timing of COVID-19 vaccination campaigns, or any perceived limitations of or setbacks in these efforts; • the impact of the pandemic on the financial markets and economic activity generally; • the impact of the pandemic on labor costs and supply; • the effect of the pandemic on our clients and other business partners, including the impact of supply-chain disruptions; • our ability to access usual sources of liquidity on reasonable terms; • our ability to achieve the full benefits of the restructuring actions we took in 2020 and other cost-saving initiatives; • our ability during the pandemic to provide our services, including those related to the health and wellbeing of our employees; and • the ability of our clients to pay for our services during and following the pandemic if significant disruptions develop or continue. The COVID-19 pandemic has significantly increased financial and economic volatility and uncertainty. Resulting downturns in the economy have had, and we expect will continue to have, a negative impact on many of our clients. Some clients, particularly in the early months of the pandemic, responded to weak or volatile economic and financial conditions by reducing their marketing budgets, thereby decreasing the market and demand for our services. In addition, many businesses adjusted, reduced or suspended operating activities, which negatively impacted certain of the markets or industries we serve. These patterns may recur in future periods, including as a result of pandemic developments such as the emergence of new virus variants that may be more transmissible, virulent or both. All of the foregoing has impacted, and will likely continue to impact, our business, financial condition, results of operations and forward-looking expectations. Furthermore, modified processes, procedures and controls have been required to respond to the changes in our business environment as the majority of our employees have continued to work from home. The significant increase in remote working of our employees may exacerbate certain risks to our business, including the increased demand for information technology resources, increased risk of malicious technology-related events, such as cyberattacks and phishing attacks, and increased risk of improper dissemination of personal, proprietary or confidential information. The potential effects of COVID-19 could also heighten the risks disclosed in many of our other risk factors that are included below, including as a result of, but not limited to, the factors listed above. • Our results of operations are highly susceptible to unfavorable economic conditions. We are exposed to risks associated with weak or uncertain regional or global economic conditions and disruption in the financial markets. Following the severe downturn in most markets following the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, the global economy continues to be challenging. The recent emergence and spread of the Omicron variant of the COVID-19 coronavirus has negatively impacted economic growth prospects over upcoming periods. Economic downturns or uncertainty about the strength of the global economy generally, or economic conditions in certain regions or market sectors, and caution on the part of marketers, can have an effect on the demand for advertising and marketing communication services. In addition, 11 market conditions can be and have been adversely affected by natural and human disruptions, such as natural disasters, public health crises, severe weather events, military conflict or civil unrest. Our industry can be affected more severely than other sectors by an economic downturn and can recover more slowly than the economy in general. In the past, including in connection with the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, some clients have responded to weak economic and financial conditions by reducing their marketing budgets, which include discretionary components that are easier to reduce in the short term than other operating expenses. This pattern may recur in the future. Furthermore, unexpected revenue shortfalls can result in misalignments of costs and revenues, resulting in a negative impact to our operating margins. If our business is significantly adversely affected by unfavorable economic conditions or other market disruptions that adversely affect client spending, the negative impact on our revenue could pose a challenge to our operating income and cash generation from operations. Risks Related to Our Industry and Operations • We operate in a highly competitive industry. The advertising and marketing communications business is highly competitive and constantly changing. Our agencies and media services compete with other agencies and other providers of creative, marketing or media services to maintain existing client relationships and to win new business. Our competitors include not only other large multinational advertising and marketing communications companies, but also smaller entities that operate in local or regional markets as well as new forms of market participants. Competitive challenges also arise from rapidly-evolving and new technologies in the marketing and advertising space, creating opportunities for new and existing competitors and a need for continued significant investment in tools, technologies and process improvements. As data-driven marketing solutions become increasingly core to the success of our brands, any failure to keep up with rapidly changing technologies and standards in this space could harm our competitive position. The client’s perception of the quality of our agencies’ creative work, its confidence in our ability to protect the confidentiality of their and their customers’ data and its relationships with key personnel at the Company or our agencies are important factors that affect our competitive position. An agency’s ability to serve clients, particularly large international clients, on a broad geographic basis and across a range of services and technologies may also be an important competitive consideration. On the other hand, because an agency’s principal asset is its people and freedom of entry into the industry is almost unlimited, our relationships with clients can be affected by the departure of key personnel and a small agency is, on occasion, able to take all or some portion of a client’s account from a much larger competitor. • Clients may terminate or reduce their relationships with us on short notice. Many companies put their advertising and marketing communications business up for competitive review from time to time, and we have won and lost client accounts in the past as a result of such periodic competitions. Our clients may choose to terminate their contracts, or reduce their relationships with us, on a relatively short time frame and for any reason. A relatively small number of clients contribute a significant portion of our revenue. In the aggregate, our top ten clients based on net revenue accounted for approximately 20% of net revenue in 2021. A substantial decline in a large client’s advertising and marketing spending, or the loss of a significant part of its business, could have a material adverse effect upon our business and results of operations. Our ability to attract new clients and to retain existing clients may also, in some cases, be limited by clients’ policies or perceptions about conflicts of interest, or our own exclusivity arrangements with certain clients. These policies can, in some cases, prevent one agency, or even different agencies under our ownership, from performing similar services for competing products or companies. • We may lose or fail to attract and retain key employees and management personnel. Our employees, including creative, digital, research, media and account specialists, and their skills and relationships with clients, are among our most valuable assets. An important aspect of our competitiveness is our ability to identify and develop the appropriate talent and to attract and retain key employees and management personnel. Our ability to do so is influenced by a variety of factors, including the compensation we award and factors which may be beyond our control. The COVID-19 pandemic has been characterized by an increase in labor costs, disruptions and turnover. Changes to U.S. or other immigration policies or travel restrictions imposed as a result of public health, political or security concerns that restrain the flow of professional talent may inhibit our ability to staff our offices or projects. In addition, the advertising and marketing services industry is characterized by a high degree of employee mobility and significant use of third-party or temporary workers to staff new, growing or temporary assignments. If we were to fail to attract key personnel or lose them to competitors or clients, or fail to manage our workforce effectively, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. • If our clients experience financial distress, or seek to change or delay payment terms, it could negatively affect our own financial position and results. We have a large and diverse client base, and at any given time, one or more of our clients may experience financial difficulty, file for bankruptcy protection or go out of business. Unfavorable economic and financial conditions, such as those 12 resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic, could result in an increase in client financial difficulties that affect us. The direct impact on us could include reduced revenues and write-offs of accounts receivable and expenditures billable to clients, and if these effects were severe, the indirect impact could include impairments of intangible assets, credit facility covenant violations and reduced liquidity. Furthermore, in most of our businesses, our agencies enter into commitments to pay production and media costs on behalf of clients. The amounts involved substantially exceed our revenues and primarily affect the level of accounts receivable, expenditures billable to clients, accounts payable and accrued liabilities. To the extent possible, we pay production and media charges only after we have received funds from our clients. However, if clients are unable to pay for commitments that we have entered into on their behalf, or if clients seek to significantly delay or otherwise alter payment terms, there could be an adverse effect on our working capital, which would negatively impact our operating cash flow. • International business risks could adversely affect our operations. We are a global business, with agencies operating in over 100 countries, including every significant world market. Operations outside the United States represent a significant portion of our net revenues, approximately 35% in 2021. These operations are exposed to risks that include local legislation, currency variation, exchange control restrictions, local labor and employment laws that hinder workforce flexibility, large-scale local or regional public health crises, and other difficult social, political or economic conditions. We also must comply with applicable U.S., local and other international anti-corruption laws, including the FCPA and the U.K. Anti-Bribery Act (2010), which can be comprehensive, complex and stringent, in all jurisdictions where we operate, certain of which present heightened compliance challenges. Export controls and economic sanctions, such as those maintained by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the U.S. Department of the Treasury, can impose limitations on our ability to operate in certain geographic regions or to seek or service certain potential clients. These restrictions can place us at a competitive disadvantage with respect to those competitors who may not be subject to comparable restrictions. Failure to comply or to implement business practices that sufficiently prevent corruption or violation of sanctions laws could result in significant remediation expense and expose us to significant civil and criminal penalties and reputational harm. In addition, in developing countries or regions, we may face further risks, such as slower receipt of payments, nationalization, social and economic instability, currency repatriation restrictions and undeveloped or inconsistently enforced commercial laws. These risks may limit our ability to grow our business and effectively manage our operations in those countries. • We are subject to industry regulations and other legal or reputational risks that could restrict our activities or negatively impact our performance or financial condition. Our industry is subject to government regulation and other governmental action, both domestic and foreign. Advertisers and consumer groups may challenge advertising through legislation, regulation, judicial actions or otherwise, for example on the grounds that the advertising is false and deceptive or injurious to public welfare. Our business is also subject to specific rules, prohibitions, media restrictions, labeling disclosures and warning requirements applicable to advertising for certain products. Existing and proposed laws and regulations, in particular in the European Union, the United Kingdom and the United States, concerning user privacy, use and protection of personal information and on-line tracking technologies could affect the efficacy and profitability of internet-based, digital and targeted marketing. We are also subject to laws and regulations that govern whether and how we can transfer, process or receive certain data that we use in our operations. The European Union, for example, has recently tightened its rules on the transferability of data to the United States. Collection, processing, and storage of biometric identifiers has come under increasing regulation and is the subject of class action litigation. The costs of compliance with these laws and regulations may increase in the future as a result of the implementation of new laws or regulations, such as the GDPR and the CCPA/CPRA, or changes in interpretations of current ones, such as the interpretation of existing consumer protection laws as imposing restrictions on the online collection, storage and use of personal data. Any failure on our part to comply with these legal requirements, or their application in an unanticipated manner, could harm our business and result in significant penalties or legal liability. The imposition of restrictions on certain technologies by private market participants in response to privacy concerns could also have a negative impact on our digital business. If we are unable to transfer data between countries and regions in which we operate, or if we are prohibited from sharing data among our products and services, it could affect the manner in which we provide our services or adversely affect our financial results. Legislators, agencies and other governmental units may also continue to initiate proposals to ban the advertising of specific products, such as alcohol, tobacco or marijuana products, and to impose taxes on or deny deductions for advertising, which, if successful, may hinder our ability to accomplish our clients’ goals and have an adverse effect on advertising expenditures and, consequently, on our revenues or results. Governmental action, including judicial rulings, on the relative responsibilities of 13 clients and their marketing agencies for the content of their marketing can also impact our operations. Furthermore, we could suffer reputational risk as a result of governmental or legal action or from undertaking work that may be challenged by consumer groups or considered controversial, in poor taste or not conforming to contemporary social standards. • We rely extensively on information technology systems and could face cybersecurity risks. We rely extensively and increasingly on information technologies and infrastructure to manage our business (including the digital storage of marketing strategies and client information), develop new business opportunities and digital products, and process business transactions. Our business operations depend on the secure processing, storage, and transmission of confidential and sensitive information over the internet and through interconnected systems. The incidence of malicious technology-related events, such as cyberattacks, computer hacking, computer viruses, worms or other destructive or disruptive software, phishing attacks and other attempts to gain access to confidential or personal data, denial of service or ransomware attacks or other malicious activities is on the rise worldwide and highlights the need for continual and effective cybersecurity awareness and education. We, our clients and our vendors are increasingly the target of hackers and other threat actors, denial of service attacks and malicious code, which can result in the unauthorized access, misuse, loss, or destruction of data (including confidential and sensitive data), unavailability of services and supply chain disruptions, or other adverse events. Our business, which increasingly involves the collection, use and transmission of customer data, may make us and our agencies attractive targets for malicious third-party attempts to access this data. Power outages, equipment failure, natural disasters (including extreme weather), terrorist activities or human error may also affect our systems and result in disruption of our services or loss or improper disclosure of personal data, business information, including intellectual property, or other confidential information. We utilize in-house and third-party services, including third-party “cloud” computing services, to perform key operational functions, including the storage, transfer or processing of data. System failures or network disruptions or breaches in such in-house or third-party systems could adversely affect our reputation or business. We maintain, and we require our third-party service providers to maintain, security controls designed to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of our systems and the confidential and sensitive information we maintain and process. Despite our best efforts, however, the threat landscape is constantly evolving. A cybersecurity incident or data breach affecting the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of the information we process, our data systems, or those operated on our behalf by third-party service providers could adversely affect our ability to manage our risk exposure and could significantly harm our business. We operate in many respects on a decentralized basis, with a large number of agencies and legal entities, and the resulting size, diversity and disparity of our technology systems and complications in implementing standardized technologies and procedures could increase our potential vulnerability to such breakdowns, malicious intrusions or attacks. Data privacy or cybersecurity breaches, as well as improper use of social media, by employees and others may pose a risk that sensitive data, such as personally identifiable information, strategic plans and trade secrets, could be exposed to third parties or to the general public. Any such breaches or breakdowns could result in a loss of our or our clients’ or vendors’ proprietary information, expose us to legal liability and be expensive to remedy. We consider the ethical treatment of data to be a business strength, and the damage to our reputation and business from any such breach could be significant and costly. Efforts to develop, implement and maintain security measures are costly, may not be successful in preventing these events from occurring and require ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies and cyberattack techniques change frequently, or are not recognized until successful and efforts to overcome security measures become more sophisticated. We operate worldwide, and the legal rules governing data transfers are often complex, conflicting, unclear or ever-changing. Increased privacy and cybersecurity requirements may increase our operating costs and negatively impact our business. • We face risks associated with our acquisitions and other investments. We regularly undertake acquisitions and other investments that we believe will enhance our service offerings to our clients, such as our acquisition of Acxiom in 2018. These transactions can involve significant challenges and risks, including that the transaction does not advance our business strategy or fails to produce a satisfactory return on our investment. Our customary business, legal and financial due diligence with the goal of identifying and evaluating the material risks involved may be unsuccessful in ascertaining or evaluating all such risks. Though we typically structure our acquisitions to provide for future contingent purchase payments that are based on the future performance of the acquired entity, our forecasts of the investment’s future performance also factor into the initial consideration. When actual financial results differ, our returns on the investment could be adversely affected. We may also experience difficulty integrating new employees, businesses, assets or systems into our organization, including with respect to our internal policies and required controls. We may face reputational and legal risks in situations where we have a significant minority investment but limited control over the investment's operations. Furthermore, it may take longer than anticipated to realize the expected benefits from these transactions, or those benefits may ultimately be smaller than anticipated or may not be realized at all. Talent is among our most valuable assets, and we also may not realize the intended benefits of a transaction if we fail to retain targeted personnel. Acquisition and integration activity may also divert management’s attention and other corporate resources from other business needs. If we fail to realize the intended advantages of 14 any given investment or acquisition, or if we do not identify or correctly measure the associated risks and liabilities, our results of operations and financial position could be adversely affected. • The costs of compliance with sustainability or other environmental, social responsibility or governance (ESG) laws, regulations or policies, including investor and client-driven policies and standards, could adversely affect our business. While as a non–location–specific, non–manufacturing service business we have to date been sheltered from or able to mitigate many direct impacts from climate change and related laws and regulations, we are nevertheless increasingly impacted by the effects of climate change and laws and regulations related to other ESG concerns. We could also incur related costs indirectly through our clients or investors. Increasingly our clients request that we comply with their own social responsibility, sustainability or other business policies or standards, which may be more restrictive than current laws and regulations, before they commence, or continue, doing business with us, and ESG issues are increasingly a focus of the investor community. In 2021, we committed to certain science-based emissions targets, the sourcing of 100% of our electricity needs from renewable sources by 2030 and the realization of net-zero carbon emissions by 2040. Some clients and investors may request that we commit to emissions targets and timeframes that may be more aggressive than the commitments we have already undertaken. Any setbacks in the feasibility or timing of the achievement of our commitments could result in reputational harm or damaged relationships with clients or consumers. The financial and operational costs of complying with ESG laws and regulations or achieving our ESG goals and related certification requirements could grow significantly in future years. If large shareholders were to reduce their ownership stakes in our Company as a result of dissatisfaction with our policies or efforts in this area, there could be negative impact on our stock price, and we could also suffer reputational harm. Further, if clients’ costs are adversely affected by climate change or related laws and regulations, this could negatively impact their spending on our advertising and marketing services. We could also face increased prices from our own suppliers that face climate change-related and other ESG costs and seek to pass on their increased costs to their customers. Risks Related to Our Financial Condition and Results • Our financial condition could be adversely affected if our available liquidity is insufficient. Agency operating cash flows have a significant impact on our liquidity, and we maintain a commercial paper program, a committed corporate credit facility and uncommitted lines of credit to increase flexibility in support of our operating needs. If any of these sources were unavailable or insufficient, our liquidity and ability to adequately fund our operations could be adversely affected, and we could be required to refinance, restructure or otherwise amend some or all of our obligations, sell assets or raise additional cash in the capital markets, and there could be a negative impact on our credit ratings. We cannot assure you that we would be able to access any new sources of liquidity, including in the capital markets, on commercially reasonable terms or at all or, if accomplished, that we would raise sufficient funds to meet our needs. Under our commercial paper program, we are authorized to issue short-term debt up to an aggregate amount outstanding at any time of $1.5 billion, which we use for working capital and general corporate purposes. Borrowings under the commercial paper program are supported by our $1.5 billion committed corporate credit facility (the “Credit Agreement”). If credit under the Credit Agreement or our ability to access the commercial paper market were unavailable or insufficient, our liquidity could be adversely affected. The Credit Agreement contains a leverage ratio and other, non-financial, covenants, and events like a material economic downturn could adversely affect our ability to comply with them. For example, compliance with the financial covenant would be more difficult to achieve if we were to experience increased indebtedness or substantially lower revenues, including as a result of economic downturns, client losses or a substantial increase in client defaults. If we were unable to comply with any of the covenants contained in the Credit Agreement, we could be required to seek an amendment or waiver from our lenders, and our costs under these agreements could increase. If we were unable to obtain a necessary amendment or waiver, the Credit Agreement could be terminated, any outstanding amounts could be subject to acceleration, and we could lose access to certain uncommitted financing arrangements and commercial paper. For further discussion of our liquidity profile and outlook, see Liquidity and Capital Resources in Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations . • Downgrades of our credit ratings could adversely affect us. Because ratings are an important factor influencing our ability to access capital and the terms of any new indebtedness, including covenants and interest rates, we could be adversely affected if our credit ratings were downgraded or if they were significantly weaker than those of our competitors. Our access to the commercial paper market is contingent on our maintenance of sufficient short-term debt ratings, and any downgrades to those ratings could increase our borrowing costs and reduce the market capacity for, or our ability to issue, commercial paper. Our clients and vendors may also consider our credit profile when negotiating contract terms, and if they were to change the terms on which they deal with us, it could have an adverse effect on our liquidity. 15 • Our earnings would be adversely affected if we were required to recognize asset impairment charges or increase our deferred tax valuation allowances. We evaluate all of our long-lived assets (including goodwill, other intangible assets, fixed assets and operating lease right-of-use assets), investments and deferred tax assets for possible impairment or realizability annually or whenever there is an indication that they are impaired or not realizable. If certain criteria are met, we are required to record an impairment charge or valuation allowance. As of December 31, 2021, we had substantial amounts of long-lived assets, deferred tax assets and investments on our Consolidated Balance Sheet, including approximately $4.9 billion of goodwill. Future events, including our financial performance, market valuation of us or market multiples of comparable companies, loss of a significant client’s business or strategic decisions, could cause us to conclude that impairment indicators exist and that the asset values associated with long-lived assets, deferred tax assets and investments may have become impaired. Any significant impairment loss would have an adverse impact on our reported earnings in the period in which the charge is recognized. For further discussion of goodwill and other intangible assets, as well as our sensitivity analysis of our valuation of these assets, see Critical Accounting Estimates in Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations . • Our financial results are exposed to exchange rate risk. Because a significant portion of our business is denominated in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar, such as the Argentine Peso, Brazilian Real, Japanese Yen and Columbian Peso fluctuations in exchange rates between the U.S. Dollar and such currencies may adversely affect our financial results. • We may not be able to meet our performance targets and milestones. From time to time, we communicate to the public certain targets and milestones for our financial and operating performance that are intended to provide metrics against which to evaluate our performance. They should not be understood as predictions or guidance about our expected performance. Our ability to meet any target or milestone is subject to inherent risks and uncertainties, and we caution investors against placing undue reliance on them. See Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Disclosure . 16

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations ("MD&A") is intended to help you understand The Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the "Company," "IPG," "we," "us" or "our"). MD&A should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying notes included in this report. Our MD&A includes the following sections: EXECUTIVE SUMMARY provides a discussion about our strategic outlook, factors influencing our business and an overview of our results of operations and liquidity. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS provides an analysis of the consolidated and segment results of operations for 2021 compared to 2020 and 2020 compared to 2019. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES provides an overview of our cash flows, funding requirements, contractual obligations, financing and sources of funds, and debt credit ratings. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES provides a discussion of our accounting policies that require critical judgment, assumptions and estimates. RECENT ACCOUNTING STANDARDS, by reference to Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, provides a discussion of certain accounting standards that have been adopted during 2021 or that have not yet been required to be implemented and may be applicable to our future operations. NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURE provides a reconciliation of non-GAAP financial measure with the most directly comparable generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ("U.S. GAAP") financial measures and sets forth the reasons we believe that presentation of the non-GAAP financial measure contained therein provides useful information to investors regarding our results of operations and financial condition. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Our Business We are one of the world’s premier global advertising and marketing services companies. With approximately 55,600 employees and operations in all major world markets, we help our clients’ businesses and brands thrive in a consumer economy increasingly defined by digital media, data and continuous change. At IPG, we combine the power of creativity with the benefits of technology, fueling our offerings with a deep understanding of audiences at the individual level, driven by ethical business practices. We have exceptionally talented people, across a balanced portfolio of strong agency brands, who together have set a standard for growth in our industry in recent years. Our companies specialize in consumer advertising, digital marketing, communications planning and media buying, public relations, specialized communications disciplines and data science. Our networks create customized marketing solutions for clients that range in scale from large global marketers to regional and local clients. Comprehensive global services are critical to effectively serve our multinational and local clients in markets throughout the world as they seek to build brands, increase sales of their products and services, and gain market share. We operate in a marketing and media landscape that continues to evolve at a rapid pace. Media channels continue to fragment, and clients face an increasingly complex consumer environment. To stay ahead of these challenges and to achieve our objectives, we have made and continue to make investments in creative, strategic and technology talent in areas including fast-growth digital marketing channels, high-growth geographic regions and strategic world markets. We consistently invest in opportunities within our Company to enhance the professional skills of our employees and encourage intra-company collaboration. As appropriate, we also make acquisitions, enter into strategic alliances, and develop relationships with technology and media companies that are building leading-edge marketing tools that complement our agencies’ skill sets and capabilities. Our financial goals include competitive organic net revenue growth and expansion of Adjusted EBITA margin, as defined and discussed within the Non-GAAP Financial Measure section of this MD&A, which we expect will further strengthen our balance sheet and total liquidity and increase value to our stakeholders. Accordingly, we remain focused on meeting the evolving needs of our clients while concurrently managing our cost structure. We continually seek greater efficiency in the delivery of our services, focusing on more effective resource utilization, including the productivity of our employees, real estate, information technology and shared services, such as finance, human resources and legal. The improvements we have made and continue to make in our financial reporting and business information systems in recent years allow us more timely and actionable insights from our global operations. Our disciplined approach to our balance sheet and liquidity provides us with 19 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) a solid financial foundation and financial flexibility to manage and grow our business. We believe that our strategy and execution position us to meet our financial goals and to deliver long-term value to all of our stakeholders. Impact of COVID-19 In March 2020, the World Health Organization categorized the disease caused by the novel coronavirus ("COVID-19") as a pandemic, and it continues to spread extensively throughout the United States and the rest of the world, particularly in recent months with the impact of the Omicron variant of the COVID-19 virus identified in the fourth quarter of 2021. The outbreak of COVID-19 and public and private sector measures to reduce its transmission, such as business closures and limits on operations, the adoption of social distancing measures and public and private mandates to work from home, stay at home and shelter in place, in particular in the early months of the pandemic, adversely impacted our business and demand for our services as some businesses adjusted, reduced or suspended operating activities, which negatively impacted the markets we serve and our results of operations, cash flows and financial position throughout 2020. In 2021, despite the economic and health impacts from the spread of the Delta and Omicron variants of the COVID-19 virus, we positively benefited from the effects of robust economic recovery in many of our principal markets as vaccination efforts took hold and the overall public health situation improved in many markets. We continue to believe that our focus on our strategic strengths, which include talent, our differentiated go-to-market strategy, data management capabilities, and the relevance of our offerings, position us well to navigate a rapidly changing marketplace. The future course of the pandemic is unpredictable, and the extent of its impact on our business will vary depending on the duration and severity of the continuing economic and operational impacts of COVID-19. The impact of the variants identified in 2021 and the pace of improvements in health and economic conditions has not been uniform across all geographies and could be threatened by such factors as the continued spread of the Omicron or other variants to the COVID-19 virus and limitations on the effectiveness of mass vaccination and other public health efforts to mitigate the impact of the pandemic. At the outset of the COVID-19 pandemic, we responded swiftly in support of our people, our clients and our communities. To protect our employees, and to do our part in stopping the spread of COVID-19, within days, 95 percent of our global workforce had moved to a remote work environment. Prior to the rapid spread of the Omicron variant in the fourth quarter of 2021, a significant portion of our workforce had begun to return to the office at least part of the time, although much of our worldwide workforce continues to work from home. We recognized the importance of regular communication to reassure employees and to keep them updated on our plans as the pandemic continues to unfold. We have adopted an approach of “organized flexibility” and continue to adjust our policies and practices to facilitate the new working environments and take into account the need of many employees to work during non-traditional hours and juggle home lives and work responsibilities. We believe we have had significant success in maintaining and continuing to advance the quality of our services notwithstanding extensive changes required by the pandemic. With respect to managing costs, we undertook multiple initiatives to align our expenses with changes in revenue. The steps we took in 2020 across our agencies and corporate group included deferred merit increases, freezes on hiring and temporary labor, major cuts in non-essential spending, staff reductions and furloughs and salary reductions, including voluntary salary reductions for our senior corporate management team. These actions were discontinued in 2021 as revenue growth returned. In 2020, the Company also took restructuring actions to lower our operating expenses structurally and permanently relative to revenue and to accelerate the transformation of our business (the “2020 Plan”). Most of these actions were based on our experience and learning in the COVID-19 pandemic and a resulting review of our operations. Notably, we foresee a greater role for work-from-home in a hybrid office-home model to deliver and support our services in a post-COVID world. Despite the economic effects of COVID-19 in 2021, we experienced robust growth throughout the year, driven in our domestic market by growth across all disciplines, most notably in our advertising and media businesses, and in our international markets, by double-digit organic growth in all geographic regions, bolstered by strong performance at our media and advertising businesses in addition to our digital project-based offerings. The emergence and rapid spread of the Omicron variant in the fourth quarter of 2021 did not have a significant negative impact on our growth in that quarter, though COVID-19 clouds the economic outlook for the first half of 2022. Prospects for continuing general economic recovery and improved financial performance as the year progresses will depend on the course of the pandemic and the efficacy of vaccination and other public health efforts both domestically and globally. Other macroeconomic risks to our performance in 2022 includes the extent of inflation of labor costs and potential for labor shortages, inflationary pressures on our clients and their customers, and the impact of continuing and unpredictable supply chain disruptions across the global economy. See Item 1A, Risk Factors , in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In 2021, we took further steps to strengthen our financial position during this period of continued uncertainty, as discussed in more detail in Note 4 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data . On February 25, 2021, we issued $500.0 aggregate principal amount of 2.400% senior unsecured notes due 2031 (the “2.400% Senior Notes”) and $500.0 aggregate principal amount of 3.375% senior unsecured notes due 2041 (the “3.375% Senior Notes”). We applied the net proceeds of 20 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) these offerings towards the redemption in March 2021 of all $250.0 in aggregate principal amount of our 4.000% unsecured senior notes due 2022 (the "4.000% Senior Notes"), all $500.0 in aggregate principal amount of our 3.750% unsecured senior notes due 2023 (the "3.750% Senior Notes") and $250.0 of the $500.0 in aggregate principal amount of the 4.200% unsecured senior notes due 2024 (the "4.200% Senior Notes"). We also used cash on hand to fund the repayment on maturity on October 1, 2021 of all $500.0 aggregate principal amount of our 3.750% unsecured senior notes due 2021. As a result of these steps, the remaining $250.0 aggregate principal amount of the 4.200% Senior Notes is the only senior debt we have outstanding that matures before 2028. Our Financial Information When we analyze period-to-period changes in our operating performance, we determine the portion of the change that is attributable to changes in foreign currency rates and the net effect of acquisitions and divestitures, and the remainder we call organic change, which indicates how our underlying business performed. We exclude the impact of billable expenses in analyzing our operating performance as the fluctuations from period to period are not indicative of the performance of our underlying businesses and have no impact on our operating income or net income. The change in our operating performance attributable to changes in foreign currency rates is determined by converting the prior-period reported results using the current-period exchange rates and comparing these prior-period adjusted amounts to the prior-period reported results. Although the U.S. Dollar is our reporting currency, a substantial portion of our revenues and expenses are generated in foreign currencies. Therefore, our reported results are affected by fluctuations in the currencies in which we conduct our international businesses. Our exposure is mitigated as the majority of our revenues and expenses in any given market are generally denominated in the same currency. Both positive and negative currency fluctuations against the U.S. Dollar affect our consolidated results of operations, and the magnitude of the foreign currency impact to our operations related to each geographic region depends on the significance and operating performance of the region. The foreign currencies that most favorably impacted our results during the year ended December 31, 2021 were the British Pound Sterling, the Euro, Australian Dollar and Canadian Dollar. The foreign currencies that most adversely impacted our results during the year ended December 31, 2021 were the Brazilian Real and Argentine Peso. For purposes of analyzing changes in our operating performance attributable to the net effect of acquisitions and divestitures, transactions are treated as if they occurred on the first day of the quarter during which the transaction occurred. During the past few years, we have acquired companies that we believe will enhance our offerings and disposed of businesses that are not consistent with our strategic plan. The metrics that we use to evaluate our financial performance include organic change in net revenue as well as the change in certain operating expenses, and the components thereof, expressed as a percentage of consolidated net revenue, as well as Adjusted EBITA. These metrics are also used by management to assess the financial performance of our reportable segments, Integrated Agency Networks ("IAN") and IPG DXTRA ("DXTRA"). In certain of our discussions, we analyze net revenue by geographic region and by business sector, in which we focus on our top 500 clients, which typically constitute approximately 80% to 85% of our annual consolidated net revenues. The Consolidated Financial Statements and MD&A presented herein reflect the latest estimates and assumptions made by us that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and related disclosures as of the date of the consolidated financial statements and reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting periods presented. We believe we have used reasonable estimates and assumptions to assess the fair values of the Company’s goodwill, long-lived assets and indefinite-lived intangible assets; assessment of the annual effective tax rate; valuation of deferred income taxes and the allowance for expected credit losses on future uncollectible accounts receivable. If actual market conditions vary significantly from those currently projected, these estimates and assumptions could materially change resulting in adjustments to the carrying values of our assets and liabilities. 21 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) The following table presents a summary of our financial performance for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019. 1 In 2021, results include restructuring charges of $10.6. In 2020, results include restructuring charges of $413.8. See "Restructuring Charges" in MD&A and Note 11 of Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for further information. 2 Adjusted EBITA is a financial measure that is not defined by U.S. GAAP. Adjusted EBITA is calculated as net income available to IPG common stockholder before provision for incomes taxes, total (expenses) and other income, equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates, net income attributable to noncontrolling interests and amortization of acquired intangibles. Refer to the Non-GAAP Financial Measure section of this MD&A for additional information and for a reconciliation to U.S. GAAP measures. Our organic net revenue increase of 11.9% for the year ended December 31, 2021 was driven by net higher spending from existing clients across all sectors, most notably in the healthcare, retail, auto and transportation, and technology and telecom sectors, which also each increased from net client wins. During the year ended December 31, 2021, our Adjusted EBITA margin on net revenue increa sed to 16.7% from 8.4% in the prior-year period as the increase in net revenue, discussed below in the “Results of Operations” section, outpaced the overall increase in our operating expenses, excluding billable expenses and amortization of acquired intangibles. Our organic net revenue decrease of 4.8% fo r the year ended December 31, 2020 was primarily due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on advertising, marketing and media spending in the auto and transportation, technology and telecom, consumer goods and financial services sectors, partially offset by a combination of net client wins and net higher spending from existing clients in the healthcare and retail sectors. During the year ended December 31, 2020, our Adjusted EBITA margin on net revenue decreased to 8.4% from 13.6% in the prior-year period. The decrease was primarily due to restructuring charges 22 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) taken to lower our leased real estate, a result of the increased role in our operations of work from home arrangements for our workforce, in response to the global health crisis, discussed in the "Results of Operations" section. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Consolidated Results of Operations Net Revenue Our net revenue is directly impacted by the retention and spending levels of existing clients and by our ability to win new clients. Most of our expenses are recognized ratably throughout the year and are therefore less seasonal than revenue. Our net revenue is typically lowest in the first quarter and highest in the fourth quarter, reflecting the seasonal spending of our clients. The organic increase in our domestic market was primarily driven by growth across all disciplines, most notably in our advertising, media, public relations, and events and sports marketing businesses. In our international markets, the organic increase was primarily driven by strong performance at our media and advertising businesses and our digital project-based offerings across all geographic regions. The organic decrease in our domestic market was primarily due to the impact of the pandemic on the economy at our sports and experiential marketing businesses, primarily due to sports and other event cancellations, and on our discretionary digital project-based offerings. The decreases were partially offset by growth at our advertising and media businesses. In our international markets, the organic decrease was primarily driven by the revenue declines at our advertising and sports and experiential marketing businesses and public relations agencies, primarily in the Asia Pacific and United Kingdom regions, as well as the revenue declines at our media businesses, primarily in the Continental Europe and Asia Pacific regions. Refer to the segment discussion later in this MD&A for information on changes in revenue by segment. 23 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) Salaries and Related Expenses Net revenue growth of 12.9% outpaced the increase in salaries and related expenses of 11.8% d uring the year ended December 31, 2021 as compared to the prior-year period. The ratio improvement was primarily driven by leverage in base salaries, benefits and tax that includes the benefit of initiatives taken during 2020, as well as lower severance expense, partially offset by increased performance-based employee incentive compensation expense as a result of strong operating performance, and increased temporary help expense. Salaries and related expenses decreased by 4.0% compared to our net revenue decline of 6.5% during the year e nded December 31, 2020 as compared to the prior-year period. The decrease in salaries and related expenses was primarily driven by reductions in base salaries, benefits and tax and lower incentive and temporary help expenses in response to the decline in net revenue, which was primarily due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on economic conditions. The overall decreases were partially offset by increased severance expense. Office and Other Direct Expenses 1 Includes production expenses, travel and entertainment, professional fees, spending to support new business activity, telecommunications, office supplies, bad debt expense, adjustments to contingent acquisition obligations, foreign currency losses (gains) and other expenses. Office and other direct expenses decreased by 6.5% compared to our net revenue increase of 12.9% during the year ended December 31, 2021 as compared to the prior-year period. The decrease in office and other direct expenses was related to savings on occupancy expense as a result of real estate restructuring actions taken in 2020, a reduction in the year-over-year change in contingent acquisition obligations, lower travel and entertainment expenses and lower bad debt expense attributable to an improved credit outlook over the course of the COVID-19 pandemic, partially offset by an increase in employee recruitment costs. Office and other direct expenses decreased by 12.5% compared to our net revenue decrease of 6.5% during the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to the prior-year period. The decrease in office and other direct expenses was mainly due to decreases in travel and entertainment expenses and new business and promotion expenses as well as lower occupancy expense and professional consulting fees, partially offset by an increase in bad debt expense. 24 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses ("SG&A") are primarily the unallocated expenses of our Corporate and other group, as detailed further in the segment discussion later in this MD&A, excluding depreciation and amortization. SG&A as a percentage of net revenue increased to 1.3% in 2021 from 0.7% i n the prior-year period, primarily due to increases in performance-based employee incentive compensation expense and base salaries, benefits and tax. SG&A as a percentage of net revenue decreased to 0.7% in 2020 from 1.1% in the prior-year period, primarily attributable to decreases in employee insurance expense as well as lower incentive expense and a decrease in travel and entertainment expenses. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization as a percentage of net revenue w as 3.1% in 2021, 3.6% in 2020 and 3.2% in 2019. For the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, amortization of acquired intangibles was $86.2, $85.9 and $86.0, respectively. Restructuring Charges 1 The amounts for the year ended December 31, 2021 represents adjustments to the actions taken in 2020. 2020 Restructuring Plan Beginning in the second quarter of 2020, the Company took restructuring actions to lower its operating expenses structurally and permanently relative to revenue and to accelerate the transformation of our business (the “2020 Plan”). All restructuring actions were identified and initiated in 2020, with all actions completed by the end of the fourth quarter of 2020 and were based on our experience and learning in the COVID-19 pandemic and a resulting review of our operations to address certain operating expenses such as occupancy expense and salaries and related expenses. A summary of the restructuring activities related to the 2020 Plan is as follows: Our restructuring charges for the year ended December 31, 2021 totaled $10.6, consisting of adjustments to the Company's restructuring actions taken during 2020. Net restructuring charges were comprised of $3.0 at IAN and $9.7 at DXTRA for the year ended December 31, 2021, which include non-cash lease impairment costs of $(0.7) and $7.1, respectively. 25 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) Our charges for restructuring actions for the year ended December 31, 2020 totaled $413.8 and were designed to reduce our expenses, such as occupancy expense and salaries and related expenses, relative to our net revenue on an ongoing basis. These actions, taken during the second, third and fourth quarters of 2020, reduced our global real estate footprint by approximately 15% or 1,700,000 square feet and, further, downsized selected levels of management and staff with severance costs for 1,520 employees or approximately 3%. Of the total charges for the year ended December 31, 2020, $265.6, or 64%, is non-cash, mainly representing the impairment of right-of-use assets of operating leases. Net restructuring charges were comprised of $317.9 at IAN and $78.8 at DXTRA for the year ended December 31, 2020, which include non-cash lease impairment costs of $190.4 and $59.8, respectively. Lease impairment costs, which relate to the office spaces that were vacated as part of the 2020 Plan, included impairments of operating lease right-of-use assets and associated leasehold improvements, furniture and asset retirement obligations. Lease impairments were calculated based on estimated fair values using market participant assumptions including forecasted net discounted cash flows related to the operating lease right-of-use assets. 2019 Restructuring Plan In the first quarter of 2019, the Company implemented a cost initiative (the “2019 Plan”) to better align our cost structure with our revenue primarily related to specific client los ses occurring in 2018. All restructuring actions were identified and initiated by the end of the first quarter of 2019, with all actions substantially completed by the end of the second quarter of 2019, with no additional adjustments in the third and fourth quarters of 2019. There were no additional adjustments made to the 2019 Plan in the years ended December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2021. EXPENSES AND OTHER INCOME Net Interest Expense Net interest expense decreased by $19.3 in 2021 compared to a year ago, primarily attributable to decreased cash interest expense as a result of our $500.0 in aggregate principal amount 3.500% unsecured senior notes that matured in the fourth quarter of 2020. For 2020, net interest expense remained relatively flat as compared to the prior-year period. Other Expense, Net Results of operations include certain items that are not directly associated with our revenue-producing operations. 26 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) Loss on early extinguishment of debt – During the first quarter of 2021, we recorded a loss of $74.0 related to the early extinguishment of all $250.0 in aggregate principal amount of our 4.000% Senior Notes, all $500.0 in aggregate principal amount of our 3.750% Senior Notes, and $250.0 of the $500.0 in aggregate principal amount of our 4.200% Senior Notes. See Note 4 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for further information. Net losses on sales of businesses – During 2021, 2020 and 2019, the amounts recognized were related to sales of businesses and the classification of certain assets and liabilities, consisting primarily of cash, as held for sale within our IAN and DXTRA reportable segments. The businesses held for sale as of year-end primarily represent unprofitable, non-strategic agencies which are expected to be sold within the next twelve months. The sales of businesses and the classification of certain assets and liabilities as held for sale included cash, net of proceeds, of $13.3, $62.9 and $6.7 for the years ended 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively, which is classified within the Other Investing Activities line in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data . Other – During 2021, the majority of the amounts recognized were related to a non-cash gain related to the deconsolidation of a previously consolidated entity in which we maintain an equity interest, and pension and postretirement costs. During 2020, the amounts recognized were primarily a result of gains on remeasurement of equity interests arising from a change in ownership. During 2019, the amounts recognized were primarily a result of changes in fair market value of equity investments, partially offset by the sale of an equity investment. INCOME TAXES Effective Tax Rate Our tax rates are affected by many factors, including our worldwide earnings from various countries, changes in legislation and tax characteristics of our income. In 2021, our effective income tax rate of 20.6% was positively impacted by the reversal of valuation allowances primarily in Continental Europe. This was partially offset by net losses on sales of businesses and the classification of certain assets as held for sale for which we received minimal tax benefit. In 2020, our effective income tax rate of 2.2% was positively impacted by the settlement of the U.S. Federal income tax audit of the years 2006 to 2016, partially offset by losses in certain foreign jurisdictions where we received no tax benefit due to 100% valuation allowances, by net losses on sales of businesses and the classification of certain assets as held for sale for which we received minimal tax benefit and by tax expense associated with the change to our assertion regarding the permanent reinvestment of undistributed earnings attributable to certain foreign subsidiaries. On March 27, 2020, the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (the “CARES Act”) was enacted and signed into law. The CARES Act includes several provisions for corporations including increasing the amount of deductible interest, allowing companies to carryback certain net operating losses (“NOLs”) and increasing the amount of NOLs that corporations can use to offset income. The CARES Act did not materially affect our quarter or year-to-date income tax provision, deferred tax assets and liabilities, or related taxes payable. In the second quarter of 2020, in response to changes in non-U.S. tax law, a decision was made to change our indefinite reinvestment assertion on a $120.0 of undistributed foreign earnings of specific subsidiaries. We recorded $10.4 of income tax costs associated wi th this change to our assertion. 27 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) In the third quarter of 2020, in response to restructuring actions taken within foreign subsidiaries, a decision was made to change our indefinite reinvestment assertion on a $46.0 of undistributed foreign earnings of specific subsidiaries. We recorded $3.2 of income tax costs associated with this change to our assertion. On July 29, 2020, the Internal Revenue Service notified the Company that the U.S. Federal income tax audit of years 2006 through 2016 has been finalized and settled. As a result, we recognized an income tax benefit of $136.2 in the third quarter of 2020. I n 2019 , our effective income tax rate of 23.3% was positively impacted by the reversal of valuation allowances primarily in Continental Europe, by the settlement of state income tax audits and by excess tax benefits on employee share-based payments. The effective tax rate was negatively impacted by losses in certain foreign jurisdictions where we receive no tax benefit due to 100% valuation allowances, net losses on sales of businesses and the classification of certain assets as held for sale, for which we received minimal tax benefit. See Note 9 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for further information. EARNINGS PER SHARE Basic earnings per share available to IPG common stockholders for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019 were $2.42, $0.90 and $1.70 per share, respectively. Diluted earnings per share available to IPG common stockholders for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019 were $2.39, $0.89 and $1.68 per share, respectively. Basic and diluted earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2021 included negative impacts of $0.18 and $0.17, respectively, from the amortization of acquired intangibles, a negative impact of $0.02 from restructuring charges, a negative impact of $0.04 from net losses on sales of businesses and the classification of certain assets as held for sale, a negative impact of $0.14 from the loss on early extinguishment of debt, partially offset by a positive impact of $0.15 related to tax valuation allowance reversals and a positive impact of $0.01 from the deconsolidation of a previously consolidated entity. Basic and diluted earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2020 included a negative impact of $0.18 from the amortization of acquired intangibles, a negative impact of $0.82 from restructuring charges, a negative impact of $0.16 from net losses on sales of businesses and the classification of certain assets as held for sale, partially offset by a net positive impact of $0.31 from various discrete tax items. Basic and diluted earnings per share for the year ended December 31, 2019 included a negative impact of $0.18 from the amortization of acquired intangibles, a negative impact of $0.06 from first-quarter restructuring charges, a negative impact of $0.12 from net losses on sales of businesses and the classification of certain assets as held for sale, for which we received minimal tax benefit, partially offset by a net positive impact of $0.10 from various discrete tax items. Segment Results of Operations As discussed in Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, we have two reportable segments as of December 31, 2021: IAN and DXTRA. We also report results for the "Corporate and other" group. Segment information for the prior period has been recast to conform to the current-period presentation. IAN Net Revenue The organic increase was mainly attributable to a combination of higher spending from existing clients and net client wins in the healthcare, retail, auto and transportation, and technology and telecom sectors. The 10.5% organic increase in our domestic market was driven by growth across all disciplines, most notably in our advertising and media businesses. In our international markets, the 15.1% organic increase was driven by strong performance at our media and advertising businesses as well as our digital project-based offerings throughout all geographic regions. 28 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) The organic decrease was mainly attributable to lower spending from existing clients, primarily related to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. The revenue decrease was in the auto and transportation, technology and telecom, consumer goods, and financial services sectors, partially offset by net client wins and net higher spending from existing clients in the healthcare and retail sectors. The organic decrease in our domestic market was primarily driven by the impact of the pandemic on the economy at discretionary-based digital service offerings partially offset by growth at our advertising and media businesses. In our international markets, the organic decrease was mainly driven by our advertising businesses, primarily in the Asia Pacific and United Kingdom regions, as well as the revenue declines at our media businesses, primarily in the Continental Europe and Asia Pacific regions. Segment EBITA 1 Segment EBITA and Segment EBITA margin on net revenue include $3.0 and $317.9 of restructuring charges in the year ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. See "Restructuring Charges" in MD&A and Note 11 of Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for further information. Segment EBITA margin increased during 2021 when compared to 2020, as the increase in net revenue outpaced the overall increase in our operating expenses, including restructuring charges and excluding billable expenses and amortization of acquired intangibles. Net revenue growth of 13.3% outpaced the increase in salaries and related expenses as compared to the prior year period primarily driven by leverage in base salaries, benefits and tax that includes the benefit of initiatives taken in 2020, as well as lower severance expense, partially offset by increased performance-based employee incentive compensation expense as a result of strong operating performance, and increased temporary help expense. Additionally, office and other direct expenses decreased mainly due to savings on occupancy expense as a result of our real estate restructuring actions taken in 2020, lower travel and entertainment related expenses and lower bad debt expense attributable to an improved credit outlook over the course of the COVID-19 pandemic, partially offset by an increase in employee recruitment costs. During the full-year of 2021, Segment EBITA included restructuring charges of $3.0 as compared to $317.9 during the full-year of 2020. Depreciation and amortization, excluding amortization of acquired intangibles, as a percentage of net revenue decreased to 2.2% in 2021 from 2.6% in the prior-year period. Segment EBITA margin decreased during 2020 when compared to 2019, mainly due to the decrease in net revenue of 5.6%, the organic component of which is discussed in detail above, primarily related to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Operating expense, excluding billable expenses and amortization of acquired intangibles, remained flat as compared to the prior-year period mainly due to an increase in restructuring charges, partially offset by decreases in salaries and related expenses and office and other direct expenses. The decrease in salaries and related expenses was primarily driven by reductions in base salaries, benefits and tax, lower temporary help and incentive expenses in response to the declines in net revenue, primarily due to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic on economic conditions. The overall decreases were partially offset by increased severance. The decrease in office and other direct expenses was primarily driven by decreases in travel and entertainment expenses and new business and promotion expenses as well as lower occupancy expense and professional fees, partially offset by an increase in bad debt expense and a year-over-year change in contingent acquisition obligations. During the full-year of 2020, Segment EBITA included restructuring charges of $317.9 as compared to $27.0 during the full-year of 2019. Depreciation and amortization, excluding amortization of acquired intangibles, as a percentage of net revenue increased to 2.6% in 2020 from 2.2% in the prior-year period. 29 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) DXTRA Net Revenue The organic increase was mainly attributable to net higher spending from existing clients in the auto and transportation, consumer goods and food and beverage sectors. The 12.8% organic increase in our domestic market was driven by revenue increases across all disciplines, most notably at our public relations agencies and experiential and sports marketing businesses. In our international markets, the 6.1% organic increase was driven by growth across all disciplines, most notably in the United Kingdom and Continental Europe regions. The organic decrease was mainly attributable to lower spending from existing clients, primarily related to the COVID-19 pandemic. The revenue decrease was in the auto and transportation, technology and telecom and financial services sectors, partially offset by a combination of net client wins and net higher spending from existing clients in the healthcare and food and beverage sectors. The organic decrease in our domestic market was primarily driven by our sports and experiential marketing businesses, primarily due to sports and other event cancellations. In our international markets, the organic decrease was mainly driven by our public relations agencies and sports and experiential marketing businesses, primarily in the Asia Pacific and United Kingdom regions. Segment EBITA 1 Segment EBITA and Segment EBITA margin on net revenue include $9.7 and $78.8 of restructuring charges in the year ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. See "Restructuring Charges" in MD&A and Note 11 of Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for further information. Segment EBITA margin increased during 2021 when compared to 2020, as the increase in net revenue of 10.9% exceeded the overall increase in operating expenses, including restructuring charges and excluding billable expenses and amortization of acquired intangibles. Net revenue growth o f 10.9% outpaced the increase in salaries and related expenses as compared to the prior year period primarily driven by leverage in base salaries, benefits and tax that includes the benefit of initiatives taken in 2020, increased performance-based employee incentive compensation expense as a result of strong operating performance and increased temporary help expense. Additionally, office and other direct expenses decreased mainly due to a reduction in year-over-year change in contingent acquisition obligations, savings on occupancy expense as a result of our real estate restructuring actions taken in 2020, a decrease in new business and promotion expenses an d lower bad debt expense attributable to an improved credit outlook over the course of the COVID-19 pandemic. During the full-year of 2021, segment EBITA included restructuring charges of $9.7 as compared to $78.8 during the full-year of 2020. Depreciation and amortization, excluding amortization of acquired intangibles, as a percentage of net revenue decreased to 1.3% in 2021 from 1.8% in the prior-year period. 30 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) Segment EBITA margin decreased during 2020 when compared to 2019, as the decrease in net revenue of 11.8% exceeded the overall decrease in operating expenses, including restructuring charges and excluding billable expenses and amortization of acquired intangibles. The decrease in salaries and related expenses was primarily driven by reductions in base salaries, benefits and tax, lower temporary help and incentive expenses in response to the declines in net revenue, primarily due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on economic conditions. The overall decrease was partially offset by an increase in severance expense. The decrease in office and other direct expenses was primarily driven by decreases in travel and entertainment expenses and new business and promotion expenses as well as lower occupancy expense. During the full-year of 2020, segment EBITA included restructuring charges of $78.8 as compared to $6.2 during the full-year of 2019. Depreciation and amortization, excluding amortization of acquired intangibles, as a percentage of net revenue increased to 1.8% in 2020 from 1.6% in the prior-year period. CORPORATE AND OTHER Our corporate and other segment is primarily comprised of selling, general and administrative expenses including corporate office expenses as well as shared service center and certain other centrally managed expenses that are not fully allocated to operating divisions; salaries, long-term incentives, annual bonuses and other miscellaneous benefits for corporate office employees; professional fees related to internal control compliance, financial statement audits and legal, information technology and other consulting services that are engaged and managed through the corporate office; and rental expense for properties occupied by corporate office employees. A portion of centrally managed expenses is allocated to operating divisions based on a formula that uses the planned revenues of each of the operating units. Amounts allocated also include specific charges for information technology-related projects, which are allocated based on utilization. Corporate and other expenses increased by $48.1 to $129.4 during the year ended December 31, 2021 as compared to 2020, primarily attributabl e to an increase in selling, general and administrative expenses, which was discussed in the Results of Operations section, partially offset by a decrease in restructuring charges. Corporate and other expenses in 2020 decreased by $20.5 to $81.3 compared to 2019, primarily attributable to a decrease in selling, general and administrative expenses, which was discussed in the Results of Operations section, partially offset by an increase in restructuring charges. During the year ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, corporate and other expense includes ($2.1) and $17.1 of restructuring charges, respectively. See "Restructuring Charges" in MD&A and Note 11 of Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for further information. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES CASH FLOW OVERVIEW The following tables summarize key financial data relating to our liquidity, capital resources and uses of capital. 1 Reflects net income adjusted primarily for depreciation and amortization of fixed assets and intangible assets, loss on early extinguishment of debt, amortization of restricted stock and other non-cash compensation, net losses on sales of businesses and provision for uncollectible receivables. 2 Reflects changes in accounts receivable, other current assets, accounts payable, accrued liabilities and contract liabilities. Operating Activities Due to the seasonality of our business, we typically use cash from working capital in the first nine months of a year, with the largest impact in the first quarter, and generate cash from working capital in the fourth quarter, driven by the seasonally strong media spending by our clients. Quarterly and annual working capital results are impacted by the fluctuating annual media spending budgets of our clients as well as their changing media spending patterns throughout each year across various countries. The timing of media buying on behalf of our clients across various countries affects our working capital and operating cash flow and can be volatile. In most of our businesses, our agencies enter into commitments to pay production and media costs on 31 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) behalf of clients. To the extent possible, we pay production and media charges after we have received funds from our clients. The amounts involved, which substantially exceed our revenues, primarily affect the level of accounts receivable, accounts payable, accrued liabilities and contract liabilities. Our assets include both cash received and accounts receivable from clients for these pass-through arrangements, while our liabilities include amounts owed on behalf of clients to media and production suppliers. Our accrued liabilities are also affected by the timing of certain other payments. For example, while annual cash incentive awards are accrued throughout the year, they are generally paid during the first quarter of the subsequent year. Net cash provided by operating activities during 2021 was $2,075.6, which was an increase of $228.4 as compared to 2020. This increase was primarily driven by an increase in our net income of $618.6. This comparison includes $743.4 generated from working capital in 2021, compared with $900.1 generated from working capital in 2020. Working capital in 2021 was primarily impacted by the variation in the timing of collections and payments around the reporting period. Net cash provided by operating activities during 2020 was $1,847.2, which was an increase of $318.0 as compared to 2019, and the comparison includes $900.1 generated from working capital in 2020, compared with $442.8 used in working capital in 2019. Working capital in 2020 was primarily impacted by the variation in the timing of collections and payments around the reporting period, which was favorable in 2020 compared to 2019. Investing Activities Net cash used in investing activities during 2021 consisted primarily of payments for capital expenditures of $195.3, related mostly to computer software, leasehold improvements and computer hardware. Net cash used in investing activities during 2020 consisted primarily of payments for capital expenditures of 167.5, related mostly to computer hardware, computer software and leasehold improvements. Financing Activities Net cash used in financing activities during 2021 was driven by payment for the early extinguishment of long-term debt of $1,066.8 in the first quarter of 2021, repayment of our $500.0 3.750% Senior Notes that matured on October 1, 2021 and the payment of common stock dividends of $427.7, partially offset by net proceeds of $998.1 from the issuance of $500.0 of our 2.400% Senior Notes and $500.0 of our 3.375% Senior Notes in the first quarter of 2021. See Note 4 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, for further information. Net cash used in financing activities during 2020 was driven by repayment of long-term debt of $503.7 and the payment of dividends of $398.1, partially offset by proceeds of $646.2, net of discount of $3.8, from the issuance of our 4.750% unsecured senior notes due 2030 (the "4.750% Senior Notes"). Foreign Exchange Rate Changes The effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash included in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows resulted in a net decrease of $45.4 in 2021. This decrease was primarily a result of the U.S. dollar being stronger than several foreign currencies, including the Euro, the Australian Dollar and the Mexican Peso. The effect of foreign exchange rate changes on cash, cash equivalents and restricted cash included in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows resulted in a net increase of $31.0 in 2020. LIQUIDITY OUTLOOK We expect our cash flow from operations and existing cash and cash equivalents to be sufficient to meet our anticipated operating requirements at a minimum for the next twelve months. We also have a commercial paper program, a committed corporate credit facility, and uncommitted lines of credit to support our operating needs. Borrowings under our commercial paper program are supported by our committed corporate credit agreement. We continue to maintain a disciplined approach to managing liquidity, with flexibility over significant uses of cash, including our capital expenditures, cash used for new acquisitions, our common stock repurchase program and our common stock dividends. From time to time, we evaluate market conditions and financing alternatives for opportunities to raise additional funds or otherwise improve our liquidity profile, enhance our financial flexibility and manage market risk. Our ability to access the capital markets depends on a number of factors, which include those specific to us, such as our credit ratings, and those related to the financial markets, such as the amount or terms of available credit. There can be no guarantee that we would be able to access new sources of liquidity, or continue to access existing sources of liquidity, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. Funding Requirements Our most significant funding requirements include our operations, non-cancelable operating lease obligations, capital expenditures, acquisitions, common stock dividends, taxes and debt service. Additionally, we may be required to make payments to minority shareholders in certain subsidiaries if they exercise their options to sell us their equity interests. 32 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) Notable funding requirements include: • Debt service – Our 3.750% Senior Notes in aggregate principal amount of $500.0 matured on October 1, 2021. We used available cash on hand to fund the principal repayment. As of December 31, 2021, we had outstanding short-term borrowings of $47.5 from our uncommitted lines of credit used primarily to fund short-term working capital needs. The remainder of our debt is primarily long-term, with maturities scheduled from 2024 through 2048. • Acquisitions – We paid deferred payments of $67.1 for prior acquisitions as well as ownership increases in our consolidated subsidiaries. In addition to potential cash expenditures for new acquisitions, we expect to pay approximately $15.0 over the next twelve months related to all completed acquisitions as of December 31, 2021 . We may also be required to pay approximately $4.0 related to put options held by minority shareholders if exercised, over the next twelve months. We will continue to ev aluate strategic opportunities to grow and continue to strengthen our market position, particularly in our digital and marketing services offerings, and to expand our presence in high-growth and key strategic world markets. • Dividends – During 2021, we paid four quarterly cash dividends of $0.270 per share on our common stock, which corresponded to aggregate dividend payments of $427.7. On February 10, 2022, we announced that our Board of Directors (the "Board") had declared a common stock cash dividend of $0.290 per share, payable on March 15, 2022 to holders of record as of the close of business on March 1, 2022. Assuming we pay a quarterly dividend of $0.290 per share and there is no significant change in the number of outstanding shares as of December 31, 2021, we would expect to pay approximately $457.0 over the next twelve months. Whether to declare and the amount of any such future dividend is at the discretion of our Board and will depend upon factors such as our earnings, financial position and cash requirements. • Restructuring – All restructuring charges were identified and initiated in 2020. Restructuring charges of $10.6 during the year ended December 31, 2021 are adjustments to the actions taken in 2020. As of December 31, 2021, our remaining liability related to restructuring actions was $9.4. The following summarizes our estimated contractual cash obligations and commitments as of December 31, 2021 and their effect on our liquidity and cash flow in future periods. 1 Amounts represent maturity at book value and interest payments based on contractual obligations. We may at our option and at any time redeem all or some of any outstanding series of our senior notes reflected in this table at the redemption prices set forth in the applicable supplemental indentures under which such senior notes were issued. See Note 4 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for further information. 2 Non-cancellable operating lease obligations are presented net of future receipts on contractual sublease arrangements. See Note 3 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for further information. 3 We have structured certain acquisitions with additional contingent purchase price obligations based on factors including future performance of the acquired entity. See Note 6 and Note 16 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for further information. 4 The amounts presented are estimates due to inherent uncertainty of tax settlements, including the ability to offset liabilities with tax loss carryforwards. Share Repurchase Program On July 2, 2018, in connection with the announcement of the Acxiom acquisition, we announced that share repurchases would be suspended for a period of time in order to reduce the increased debt levels incurred in conjunction with the acquisition. As of December 31, 2021, $338.4, excluding fees, remained available for repurchase under the share repurchase programs authorized in previous years. On February 10, 2022, our Board of Directors (the "Board") reauthorized a program to repurchase, from time to time, up to $400.0 of our common stock. We may effect such repurchases through open market purchases, trading plans established in accordance with U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") rules, derivative transactions or other means. We expect to 33 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) continue to repurchase our common stock in future periods, although the timing and amount of the repurchases will depend on market conditions and other funding requirements. This authorization has no expiration date. FINANCING AND SOURCES OF FUNDS Substantially all of our operating cash flow is generated by our agencies. Our cash balances are held in numerous jurisdictions throughout the world, including at the holding company level. Below is a summary of our sources of liquidity. At December 31, 2021, we held $736.6 of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities in foreign subsidiaries. The Company has historically asserted that its unremitted foreign earnings are permanently reinvested, and therefore has not recorded any deferred taxes on such amounts. However, as of December 31, 2021, $81.2 of undistributed foreign earnings from certain international entities were not subject to the permanent reinvestment assertion, therefore, the Company has recorded deferred taxes on this amount. Credit Arrangements We maintain a committed corporate credit facility, originally dated as of July 18, 2008, which has been amended and restated from time to time (the "Credit Agreement"). We use our Credit Agreement to increase our financial flexibility, to provide letters of credit primarily to support obligations of our subsidiaries and to support our commercial paper program. On November 1, 2021, we amended and restated the Credit Agreement. As amended, among other things, the maturity date of the Credit Agreement was extended to November 1, 2026 and the cost structure of the Credit Agreement was changed. The Credit Agreement continues to include a required leverage ratio of not more than 3.50 to 1.00, among other customary covenants, including limitations on our liens and the liens of our consolidated subsidiaries and limitations on the incurrence of subsidiary debt. At the election of the Company, the leverage ratio may be changed to not more than 4.00 to 1.00 for four consecutive quarters, beginning with the fiscal quarter in which there is an occurrence of one or more acquisitions with an aggregate purchase price of at least $200.0. The Credit Agreement is a revolving facility under which amounts borrowed by us or any of our subsidiaries designated under the Credit Agreement may be repaid and reborrowed, subject to an aggregate lending limit of $1,500.0, or the equivalent in other currencies. The Company has the ability to increase the commitments under the Credit Agreement from time to time by an additional amount of up to $250.0, provided the Company receives commitments for such increases and satisfies certain other conditions. The aggregate available amount of letters of credit outstanding may decrease or increase, subject to a sublimit of $50.0, or the equivalent in other currencies. Our obligations under the Credit Agreement are unsecured. As of December 31, 2021, there were no borrowings under the Credit Agreement; however, we had $10.7 of letters of credit under the Credit Agreement, which reduced our total availability to $1,489.3. On March 27, 2020, we entered into an agreement for a 364-Day revolving credit facility (the "364-Day Credit Facility") that matured on March 26, 2021. The 364-Day Credit Facility was a revolving facility, under which amounts borrowed by us may be repaid and reborrowed, subject to an aggregate lending limit of $500.0. The 364-Day Credit Facility also contained a financial covenant that required us to maintain, on a consolidated basis as of the end of each fiscal quarter, a leverage ratio for the four quarters then ended. The leverage ratio and other covenants set forth in the 364-Day Credit Facility were equivalent to the covenants contained in the Company's existing Credit Agreement. On July 28, 2020, we entered into Amendment No. 1 to the Credit Agreement and Amendment No. 1 to the 364-Day Credit Facility (together, the “Amendments”). The Amendments increased the maximum leverage ratio covenant to 4.25x in the case of the 364-Day Credit Facility and, in the case of the Credit Agreement, to (i) 4.25x through the quarter ended June 30, 2021, and (ii) 3.50x thereafter. The effective period of the Amendments expired on June 30, 2021. We were in compliance with all of our covenants in the Credit Agreement as of December 31, 2021. The financial covenant in the Credit Agreement requires that we maintain, as of the end of each fiscal quarter, a certain leverage ratio for the four quarters then ended. 34 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) The table below sets forth the financial covenant in effect as of December 31, 2021. 1 The leverage ratio is defined as debt as of the last day of such fiscal quarter to EBITDA (as defined in the Credit Agreement) for the four quarters then ended. 2 Includes adjustments of the following items from our Consolidated Statement of Operations in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data : provision for income taxes, total (expenses) and other income, equity in net income (loss) of unconsolidated affiliates, and net income attributable to noncontrolling interests . Uncommitted Lines of Credit We also have uncommitted lines of credit with various banks that permit borrowings at variable interest rates and that are primarily used to fund working capital needs. We have guaranteed the repayment of some of these borrowings made by certain subsidiaries. If we lose access to these credit lines, we would have to provide funding directly to some of our operations. As of December 31, 2021, the Company had uncommitted lines of credit in an aggregate amount of $846.2, under which we had outstanding borrowings of $47.5 classified as short-term borrowings on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. The average amount outstanding during 2021 was $60.2, with a weighted-average interest rate of approximately 3.4%. Commercial Paper The Company is authorized to issue unsecured commercial paper up to a maximum aggregate amount outstanding at any time of $1,500.0. Borrowings under the commercial paper program are supported by the Credit Agreement described above. Proceeds of the commercial paper are used for working capital and general corporate purposes, including the repayment of maturing indebtedness and other short-term liquidity needs. The maturities of the commercial paper vary but may not exceed 397 days from the date of issue. There was no commercial paper activity during 2021 and as of December 31, 2021, there was no commercial paper outstanding. Cash Pooling We aggregate our domestic cash position on a daily basis. Outside the United States, we use cash pooling arrangements with banks to help manage our liquidity requirements. In these pooling arrangements, several IPG agencies agree with a single bank that the cash balances of any of the agencies with the bank will be subject to a full right of set-off against amounts other agencies owe the bank, and the bank provides for overdrafts as long as the net balance for all agencies does not exceed an agreed-upon level. Typically, each agency pays interest on outstanding overdrafts and receives interest on cash balances. Our Consolidated Balance Sheets reflect cash, net of bank overdrafts, under all of our pooling arrangements, and as of December 31, 2021 and 2020 the amounts netted were $2,774.7 and $2,702.2, respectively. DEBT CREDIT RATINGS Our debt credit ratings as of February 15, 2022 are listed below. A credit rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning credit rating agency. The rating of each credit rating agency should be evaluated independently of any other rating. Credit ratings could have an impact on liquidity, either adverse or favorable, because, among other things, they 35 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) could affect funding costs in the capital markets or otherwise. For example, our Credit Agreement fees and borrowing rates are based on a credit ratings grid, and our access to the commercial paper market is contingent on our maintenance of sufficient short-term debt ratings. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES Our Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements and related disclosures requires us to make judgments, assumptions and estimates that affect the amounts reported and disclosed in the accompanying financial statements and footnotes. Our significant accounting policies are discussed in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We believe that of our significant accounting policies, the following critical accounting estimates involve management’s most difficult, subjective or complex judgments. We consider these accounting estimates to be critical because changes in the underlying assumptions or estimates have the potential to materially impact our Consolidated Financial Statements. Management has discussed with our Audit Committee the development, selection, application and disclosure of these critical accounting estimates. We regularly evaluate our judgments, assumptions and estimates based on historical experience and various other factors that we believe to be relevant under the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. Revenue Recognition Our revenues are primarily derived from the planning and execution of multi-channel advertising and communications, marketing services, including public relations, meeting and event production, sports and entertainment marketing, corporate and brand identity, strategic marketing consulting, and providing marketing data and technology services around the world. Most of our client contracts are individually negotiated and, accordingly, the terms of client engagements and the basis on which we earn fees and commissions vary significantly. Our contracts generally provide for termination by either party on relatively short notice, usually 30 to 90 days, although our data management contracts typically have non-cancelable terms of more than one year. Our payment terms vary by client, and the time between invoicing date and due date is typically not significant. We generally have the legally enforceable right to payment for all services provided through the end of the contract or termination date. We recognize revenue when we determine our customer obtains control of promised goods or services, in an amount that reflects the consideration which we expect to receive in exchange for those goods or services. To determine revenue recognition, we perform the following five steps: (i) identify the contract(s) with a customer; (ii) identify the performance obligations in the contract; (iii) determine the transaction price; (iv) allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract; and (v) recognize revenue as or when we satisfy the performance obligation. We only apply the five-step model to contracts when it is probable that IPG will collect the consideration it is entitled to in exchange for the goods or services it transfers to the customer. At contract inception, we assess the goods or services promised within each contract and determine those that are distinct performance obligations. We then assess whether we act as an agent or a principal for each identified performance obligation and include revenue within the transaction price for third-party costs when we determine that we act as principal. Net revenue, primarily consisting of fees, commissions and performance incentives, represents the amount of our gross billings excluding billable expenses charged to a client. Generally, our compensation is based on a negotiated fixed price, rate per hour, a retainer, commission or volume. The majority of our fees are recognized over time as services are performed, either utilizing a function of hours incurred and rates per hour, as compared to periodically updated estimates to complete, or ratably over the term of the contract. For certain less-frequent commission-based contracts which contain clauses allowing our clients to terminate the arrangement at any time for no compensation, revenue is recognized at a point in time, typically the date of broadcast or publication. Contractual arrangements with clients may also include performance incentive provisions designed to link a portion of our revenue to our performance relative to mutually agreed-upon qualitative and/or quantitative metrics. Performance incentives are treated as variable consideration which is estimated at contract inception and included in revenue based on the most likely amount earned out of a range of potential outcomes. Our estimates are based on a combination of historical award experience, anticipated performance and our best judgment. These estimates are updated on a periodic basis and are not expected to result in a reversal of a significant amount of the cumulative revenue recognized. The predominant component of billable expenses are third-party vendor costs incurred for performance obligations where we have determined that we are acting as principal. These third-party expenses are generally billed back to our clients. Billable expenses also includes incidental costs incurred in the performance of our services including airfare, mileage, hotel stays, out- 36 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) of-town meals and telecommunication charges. We record these billable expenses within total revenue with a corresponding offset to operating expenses. In international markets, we may receive rebates or credits from vendors based on transactions entered into on behalf of clients. Rebates and credits are remitted back to our clients in accordance with our contractual requirements or may be retained by us based on the terms of a particular client contract and local law. Amounts owed back to clients are recorded as a liability and amounts retained by us are recorded as revenue when earned. In certain international markets, our media contracts may allow clients to terminate our arrangement at any time for no compensation to the extent that media has not yet run. For those contracts, we do not recognize revenue until the media runs which is the point in time at which we have a legally enforceable right to compensation. Performance Obligations Our client contracts may include various goods and services that are capable of being distinct, are distinct within the context of the contract and are therefore accounted for as separate performance obligations. We allocate revenue to each performance obligation in the contract at inception based on its relative standalone selling price. Our advertising businesses include a wide range of services that involve the creation of an advertising idea, concept, campaign, or marketing strategy in order to promote the client’s brand ("creative services"), and to act as an agent to facilitate the production of advertisements by third-party suppliers ("production services”). Our clients can contract us to perform one or both of these services, as they can derive stand-alone benefits from each. Production services can include formatting creative material for different media and communication mediums including digital, large-scale reproduction such as printing and adaptation services, talent engagement and acquisition, television and radio production, and outdoor billboard production. Our contracts that include both services are typically explicit in the description of which activities constitute the creative advertising services and those that constitute the production services. Both the creative and production services are sold separately, the client can derive utility from each service on its own, we do not provide a significant service of integrating these activities into a bundle, the services do not significantly modify one another, and the services are not highly interrelated or interdependent. As such, we typically identify two performance obligations in the assessment of our advertising contracts. Our media businesses include services to formulate strategic media plans ("media planning services") and to act as an agent to purchase media (e.g., television and radio spots, outdoor advertising, digital banners, etc.) from vendors on our clients' behalf ("media buying services"). Our contracts that include both services are typically explicit in the description of which activities constitute the planning services and those that constitute the buying services. Both the planning and buying services are sold separately, the client can derive utility from each service on its own, we do not provide a significant service of integrating these activities into a bundle, the services do not significantly modify one another, and the services are not highly interrelated or interdependent. As such, we typically identify two performance obligations in the assessment of our media contracts. Our events businesses include creative services related to the conception and planning of custom marketing events as well as activation services which entail the carrying out of the event, including, but not limited to, set-up, design and staffing. Additionally, our public relations businesses include a broad range of services, such as strategic planning, social media strategy and the monitoring and development of communication strategies, among others. While our contracts in these businesses may include some or all of these services, we typically identify only one performance obligation in the assessment of our events and public relations contracts as we provide a significant service of integrating the individual services into a combined service for which the customer has contracted. Our data and technology services businesses include data management, data and data strategy, identity resolution, and measurement and analytics products and services. While our contracts in these businesses may include some or all of these services, we typically identify each product and service as an individual performance obligation. Principal vs. Agent When a third-party is involved in the delivery of our services to the client, we assess whether or not we are acting as a principal or an agent in the arrangement. The assessment is based on whether we control the specified services at any time before they are transferred to the customer. We have determined that in our events and public relations businesses, we generally act as a principal as our agencies provide a significant service of integrating goods or services provided by third parties into the specified deliverable to our clients. In addition, we have determined that we are responsible for the performance of the third-party suppliers, which are combined with our own services, before transferring those services to the customer. We have also determined that we act as principal when providing creative services and media planning services, as we perform a significant integration service in these transactions. For performance obligations in which we act as principal, we record the gross amount billed to the customer within total revenue and the related incremental direct costs incurred as billable expenses. 37 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) When a third-party is involved in the production of an advertising campaign and for media buying services, we have determined that we act as the agent and are solely arranging for the third-party suppliers to provide services to the customer. Specifically, we do not control the specified services before transferring those services to the customer, we are not primarily responsible for the performance of the third-party services, nor can we redirect those services to fulfill any other contracts. We do not have inventory risk or discretion in establishing pricing in our contracts with customers. For performance obligations for which we act as the agent, we record our revenue as the net amount of our gross billings less amounts remitted to third parties. Income Taxes The provision for income taxes includes U.S. federal, state, local and foreign taxes. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the estimated future tax consequences of temporary differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the year in which the temporary differences are expected to be reversed. Changes to enacted tax rates would result in either increases or decreases in the provision for income taxes in the period of change. We are required to evaluate the realizability of our deferred tax assets, which is primarily dependent on future earnings. A valuation allowance shall be recognized when, based on available evidence, it is “more likely than not” that all or a portion of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The factors used in assessing valuation allowances include all available evidence, such as past operating results, estimates of future taxable income and the feasibility of tax planning strategies. In circumstances where there is negative evidence, establishment of a valuation allowance must be considered. We believe that cumulative losses in the most recent three-year period represent significant negative evidence when evaluating a decision to establish a valuation allowance. Conversely, a pattern of sustained profitability represents significant positive evidence when evaluating a decision to reverse a valuation allowance. Further, in those cases where a pattern of sustained profitability exists, projected future taxable income may also represent positive evidence, to the extent that such projections are determined to be reliable given the current economic environment. Accordingly, the increase and decrease of valuation allowances has had and could have a significant negative or positive impact on our current and future earnings. The authoritative guidance for uncertainty in income taxes prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement criteria for the financial statement reporting of a tax position that an entity takes or expects to take in a tax return. Additionally, guidance is provided for de-recognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition. The assessment of recognition and measurement requires critical estimates and the use of complex judgments. We evaluate our tax positions using the “more likely than not” recognition threshold and then apply a measurement assessment to those positions that meet the recognition threshold. We have established tax reserves that we believe to be adequate in relation to the potential for additional assessments in each of the jurisdictions in which we are subject to taxation. We regularly assess the likelihood of additional tax assessments in those jurisdictions and adjust our reserves as additional information or events require. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets We account for our business combinations using the acquisition accounting method, which requires us to determine the fair value of net assets acquired and the related goodwill and other intangible assets. Determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed requires management's judgment and involves the use of significant estimates, including projections of future cash inflows and outflows, discount rates, asset lives and market multiples. Considering the characteristics of advertising, specialized marketing and communication services companies, our acquisitions usually do not have significant amounts of tangible assets, as the principal asset we typically acquire is creative talent. As a result, a substantial portion of the purchase price is allocated to goodwill and other intangible assets. We review goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite lives not subject to amortization as of October 1 st each year and whenever events or significant changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. We evaluate the recoverability of goodwill at a reporting unit level. We have 9 reporting units that were subject to the 2021 annual impairment testing. Our annual impairment review as of October 1, 2021 did not result in an impairment charge at any of our reporting units. In performing our annual impairment review, we first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is “more likely than not” that the goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible assets are impaired. Qualitative factors to consider may include macroeconomic conditions, industry and market considerations, cost factors that may have a negative effect on earnings, financial performance, and other relevant entity-specific events such as changes in management, key personnel, strategy or clients, as well as pending litigation. If, after assessing the totality of events or circumstances such as those described above, an entity determines that it is "more likely than not" that the goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired, then the entity is required to determine the fair value and perform the quantitative impairment test by comparing the fair value with the carrying value. Otherwise, no additional testing is required. 38 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) For reporting units not included in the qualitative assessment, or for any reporting units identified in the qualitative assessment as "more likely than not" that the fair value is less than its carrying value, a quantitative impairment test is performed. For our annual impairment test, we compare the respective fair value of our reporting units' equity to the carrying value of their net assets. The sum of the fair values of all our reporting units is reconciled to our current market capitalization plus an estimated control premium. Goodwill allocated to a reporting unit whose fair value is equal to or greater than its carrying value is not impaired, and no further testing is required. Should the carrying amount for a reporting unit exceed its fair value, then the quantitative impairment test is failed, and impaired goodwill is written down to its fair value with a charge to expense in the period the impairment is identified. For the 2021 and 2020 annual impairment tests, we performed a qualitative impairment assessment for six and seven reporting units, respectively, and performed the quantitative impairment test for three and five reporting units, respectively. For the qualitative analysis we took into consideration all the relevant events and circumstances, including financial performance, macroeconomic conditions and entity-specific factors such as client wins and losses. Based on this assessment, we have concluded that for each of our reporting units subject to the qualitative assessment, it is not “more likely than not” that its fair value was less than its carrying value; therefore, no additional testing was required. The 2021 and 2020 fair values of reporting units for which we performed quantitative impairment tests were estimated using a combination of the income approach, which incorporates the use of the discounted cash flow method, and the market approach, which incorporates the use of earnings and revenue multiples based on market data. We generally applied an equal weighting to the income and market approaches for our analysis. For the income approach, we used projections, which require the use of significant estimates and assumptions specific to the reporting unit as well as those based on general economic conditions. Factors specific to each reporting unit include revenue growth, profit margins, terminal value growth rates, capital expenditures projections, assumed tax rates, discount rates and other assumptions deemed reasonable by management. For the market approach, we used judgment in identifying the relevant comparable-company market multiples. These estimates and assumptions may vary between each reporting unit depending on the facts and circumstances specific to that reporting unit. The discount rate for each reporting unit is influenced by general market conditions as well as factors specific to the reporting unit. For the 2021 test, the discount rate we used for our reporting units tested ranged between 10.5% and 12.0%, and the terminal value growth rate was 3.0%. The terminal value growth rate represents the expected long-term growth rate for our industry, which incorporates the type of services each reporting unit provides as well as the global economy. For the 2021 test, the revenue growth rates for our reporting units used in our analysis were generally between 5.0% and 6.0%. Factors influencing the revenue growth rates include the nature of the services the reporting unit provides for its clients, the geographic locations in which the reporting unit conducts business and the maturity of the reporting unit. We believe that the estimates and assumptions we made are reasonable, but they are susceptible to change from period to period. Actual results of operations, cash flows and other factors will likely differ from the estimates used in our valuation, and it is possible that differences and changes could be material. A deterioration in profitability, adverse market conditions, significant client losses, changes in spending levels of our existing clients or a different economic outlook than currently estimated by management could have a significant impact on the estimated fair value of our reporting units and could result in an impairment charge in the future. We also perform a sensitivity analysis to detail the impact that changes in assumptions may have on the outcome of the first step of the impairment test. Our sensitivity analysis provides a range of fair value for each reporting unit, where the low end of the range increases discount rates by 0.5%, and the high end of the range decreases discount rates by 0.5%. We use the average of our fair values for purposes of our comparison between carrying value and fair value for the quantitative impairment test. The table below displays the midpoint of the fair value range for each reporting unit tested in the 2021 and 2020 annual impairment tests, indicating that the fair value exceeded the carrying value for all reporting units by greater than 20%, except for reporting unit B in 2020 whose fair value exceeded its carrying value by more than 15.0%. 39 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) Based on the analysis described above, for the reporting units for which we performed the quantitative impairment test, we concluded that our goodwill was not impaired as of October 1, 2021, because these reporting units passed the test as the fair values of each of the reporting units were substantially in excess of their respective carrying values. We review intangible assets with definite lives subject to amortization whenever events or circumstances indicate that a carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of these assets is determined by comparing the carrying value of these assets to the estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated by these asset groups. These asset groups are impaired when their carrying value exceeds their fair value. Impaired intangible assets with definite lives subject to amortization are written down to their fair value with a charge to expense in the period the impairment is identified. Intangible assets with definite lives are amortized on a straight-line basis with estimated useful lives generally between 7 and 15 years. Events or circumstances that might require impairment testing include the loss of a significant client, the identification of other impaired assets within a reporting unit, loss of key personnel, the disposition of a significant portion of a reporting unit, significant decline in stock price or a significant adverse change in business climate or regulations. Pension and Postretirement Benefit Plans We use various actuarial assumptions in determining our net pension and postretirement benefit costs and obligations. Management is required to make significant judgments about a number of actuarial assumptions, including discount rates and expected returns on plan assets, which are updated annually or more frequently with the occurrence of significant events. The discount rate is a significant assumption that impacts our net pension and postretirement benefit costs and obligations. We determine our discount rates for our domestic pension and postretirement benefit plans and significant foreign pension plans based on either a bond selection/settlement approach or bond yield curve approach. Using the bond selection/settlement approach, we determine the discount rate by selecting a portfolio of corporate bonds appropriate to provide for the projected benefit payments. Using the bond yield curve approach, we determine the discount rate by matching the plans' cash flows to spot rates developed from a yield curve. Both approaches utilize high-quality AA-rated corporate bonds and the plans' projected cash flows to develop a discounted value of the benefit payments, which is then used to develop a single discount rate. In countries where markets for high-quality long-term AA corporate bonds are not well developed, a portfolio of long-term government bonds is used as a basis to develop hypothetical corporate bond yields, which serve as a basis to derive the discount rate. The discount rate used to calculate net pension and postretirement benefit costs is determined at the beginning of each year. For the year ended December 31, 2021, discount rates of 2.60% for the domestic pension plan and 2.50% for the domestic postretirement benefit plan and a weighted-average discount rate of 1.35% for the significant foreign pension plans were used to calculate 2021 net pension and postretirement benefit costs. A 25 basis-point increase or decrease in the discount rate would not have impacted the 2021 net pension and postretirement benefit cost. The discou nt rate used to measure our benefit obligations is determined at the end of each year. As of December 31, 2021, we used discount rates of 2.95% for the domestic pension plan and 2.90% for the domestic postretirement benefit plan and a weighted-average discount rate of 1.86% for our significant foreign pension plans to measure our benefit obligations. A 25 basis-point increase or decrease in the discount rate would have decreased or increased the benefit obligation as of December 31, 2021 by approximately $24.0 and $26.0, respectively. The expected rate of return on pension plan assets is another significant assumption that impacts our net pension cost and is determined at the beginning of the year. Our expected rate of return considers asset class index returns over various market and economic conditions, current and expected market conditions, risk premiums associated with asset classes and long-term inflation rates. We determine both a short-term and long-term view and then select a long-term rate of return assumption that matches the duration of our liabilities. For 2021, the weighted-average expected rates of return of 5.75% and 4.47% were used in the calculation of net pension costs for the domestic and significant foreign pension plans, respectively. For 2022, we plan to use expected rates of return of 5.00% and 4.47% for the domestic and significant foreign pension plans, respectively. Changes in the rates are typically due to lower or higher expected future returns based on the mix of assets held. A lower expected rate of return would increase our net pension cost. A 25 basis-point increase or decrease in the expected return on plan assets would have decreased or increased the 2021 net pension cost by approximately $1.0. RECENT ACCOUNTING STANDARDS See Note 17 in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data for further information on certain accounting standards that have been adopted during 2021 or that have not yet been required to be implemented and may be applicable to our future operations. 40 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURE This MD&A includes both financial measures in accordance with U.S. GAAP, as well as a non-GAAP financial measure. The non-GAAP financial measure repre sents Net Income Available to IPG Common Stockhol der before Provision for Income Taxes, Total (Expenses) and Other Income, Equit y in Net Income of Unconsolidated A ffiliate s, Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests and Amortization of Acquired Intangibles which we refer to as “Adjusted EBITA”. Adjusted EBITA should be viewed as supplemental to, and not as an alternative for Net Income Available to IPG Common Stockholders calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP ("net income") or operating income calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP ("operating income"). This section also includes reconciliation of this non-GAAP financial measure to the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measures, as presented below. Adjusted EBITA is used by our management as an additional measure of our Company’s performance for purposes of business decision-making, including developing budgets, managing expenditures, and evaluating potential acquisitions or divestitures. Period-to-period comparisons of Adjusted EBITA help our management identify additional trends in our Company’s financial results that may not be shown solely by period-to-period comparisons of net income or operating income. In addition, we may use Adjusted EBITA in the incentive compensation programs applicable to some of our employees in order to evaluate our Company’s performance. Our management recognizes that Adjusted EBITA has inherent limitations because of the excluded items, particularly those items that are recurring in nature. Management also reviews operating income and net income as well as the specific items that are excluded from Adjusted EBITA, but included in net income or operating income, as well as trends in those items. The amounts of those items are set forth, for the applicable periods, in the reconciliation of Adjusted EBITA to net income that accompany our disclosure documents containing non-GAAP financial measures, including the reconciliations contained in this MD&A. We believe that the presentation of Adjusted EBITA is useful to investors in their analysis of our results for reasons similar to the reasons why our management finds it useful and because it helps facilitate investor understanding of decisions made by management in light of the performance metrics used in making those decisions. In addition, as more fully described below, we believe that providing Adjusted EBITA, together with a reconciliation of this non-GAAP financial measure to net income, helps investors make comparisons between our Company and other companies that may have different capital structures, different effective income tax rates and tax attributes, different capitalized asset values and/or different forms of employee compensation. However, Adjusted EBITA is intended to provide a supplemental way of comparing our Company with other public companies and is not intended as a substitute for comparisons based on net income or operating income. In making any comparisons to other companies, investors need to be aware that companies may use different non-GAAP measures to evaluate their financial performance. Investors should pay close attention to the specific definition being used and to the reconciliation between such measures and the corresponding U.S. GAAP measures provided by each company under the applicable rules of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The following is an explanation of the items excluded by us from Adjusted EBITA but included in net income: • Total (Expense) and Other Income, Provision for Income Taxes, Equity in Net Income of Unconsolidated Affiliates and Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests. We exclude these items (i) because these items are not directly attributable to the performance of our business operations and, accordingly, their exclusion assists management and investors in making period-to-period comparisons of operating performance and (ii) to assist management and investors in making comparisons to companies with different capital structures. Investors should note that these items will recur in future periods. • Amortization of Acquired Intangibles . Amortization of acquired intangibles is a non-cash expense relating to intangible assets arising from acquisitions that are expensed on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the related assets. We exclude amortization of acquired intangibles because we believe that (i) the amount of such expenses in any specific period may not directly correlate to the underlying performance of our business operations and (ii) such expenses can vary significantly between periods as a result of new acquisitions and full amortization of previously acquired intangible assets. Accordingly, we believe that this exclusion assists management and investors in making period-to-period comparisons of operating performance. Investors should note that the use of acquired intangible assets contributed to revenue in the periods presented and will contribute to future revenue generation and should also note that such expense may recur in future periods. 41 Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (Amounts in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts) The following table presents the reconciliation of Net Income Available to IPG Common Stockholders to Adjusted EBITA for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019. 1 Calculations include restructuring charges of $10.6 in 2021, $413.8 in 2020 and $33.9 and 2019. See “Restructuring Charges” in this MD&A and Note 11 in Item 8, Financial Statements , for further information. 42