********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

The following risk factors as well as the other information included in this Form 10-K, including “Selected Historical Consolidated Financial Data,” “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and our consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto should be carefully considered. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The selected risks described below, however, are not the only risks facing us. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or those we currently view to be immaterial may also materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to Our Business We may not realize all of the expected benefits of the acquisition of and merger with Ingersoll Rand Industrial. The anticipated benefits of the Ingersoll Rand Industrial acquisition may not be realized fully or at all and may take longer to realize than expected. The integration process will be complex, costly and time-consuming, which could adversely affect our businesses, financial results and financial condition. Even if we are able to integrate Ingersoll Rand Industrial successfully, the merger may not result in the realization of the full benefits of anticipated cost synergies, innovation, operational efficiencies and incremental revenue growth opportunities that we expect to realize or these benefits may not be achieved within a reasonable period of time. Moreover, the combined company may be unable to implement its business strategy or retain and hire key personnel. See also “Risks Related to Our Business—Acquisitions and integrating such acquisitions create certain risks and may affect our operating results.” The COVID-19 pandemic has adversely affected our business and results of operations, and could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition in the future. COVID-19 is a rapidly developing situation around the globe that has negatively impacted and could continue to negatively impact the global economy. Our operating results will be subject to fluctuations based on general economic conditions, and the extent to which COVID-19 may ultimately impact our business will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted with confidence, such as the ultimate geographic spread of the disease and the duration of the outbreak and business closures or business disruptions for our Company, our suppliers and our customers. The scale and scope of the COVID-19 pandemic may heighten the potential adverse effects on our business, operating results, cash flows and/or financial condition, described in the other risk factors contained in this report. For example, we have exposure to the risks associated with instability in the global economy and financial markets, which may negatively impact our revenues, liquidity, suppliers and customers. Our financial performance depends, in large part, on conditions in the markets we serve and on the general condition of the global economy, which impacts these markets. The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic has caused a decrease in demand for our products and services, and a sustained weakness in demand for our products and services resulting from a contraction or uncertainty in the global economy due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic could adversely impact its revenues and profitability. A portion of our revenues and operating results depend on the level of activity in the energy industry. The impact of the COVID-19 pandemic has caused significant volatility in oil and gas prices and has negatively impacted energy sector activity, and this in turn has reduced the demand for our products used in this sector and if such decreased activity continues, could reduce future demand as well. In addition, the negative impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the financial condition of our customers has and could in the future make them unable to pay for a product or service when payments become due, or they may decide not to pay us, either as a matter of corporate decision-making or in response to changes in local laws and regulations. Although historically not material, we cannot be certain that, in the future, expenses or losses for uncollectible amounts will not have a material adverse effect on our revenues, earnings and cash flows. Further, we sell a significant portion of our products through independent distributors and sales representatives. The loss of, or disruption in, our distribution network in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic could have a negative impact on our 12 abilities to ship products, meet customer demand and otherwise operate our business. Finally, our ability to make scheduled payments on, or refinance, our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which may continue to be negatively impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. If the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic persist or worsen, we may be unable to maintain a level of cash flow from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt we will be in default and the lenders under our revolving credit facility could terminate their commitments to loan money, and our secured lenders (including the lenders under our senior secured credit facilities) could foreclose against the assets securing their borrowings and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. In addition to the foregoing, the COVID-19 pandemic could also exacerbate or trigger other risks discussed herein, any of which could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, we may experience different and additional risks not discussed herein such as decreased worker productivity as a result of remote working arrangements, increased medical, emergency or other leave. An extended period of remote working by our employees could strain our technology resources and introduce operational risks, including heightened cybersecurity risk. Remote working environments may be less secure and more susceptible to hacking attacks, including phishing and social engineering attempts that seek to exploit the COVID-19 pandemic. Further, we are experiencing increased costs and expenses, including as a result of (i) conducting daily “fitness-for-duty” assessments for all employees, including temperature and symptoms checks and providing personal protective equipment; (ii) the expansion of benefits to our employees, including the provision of additional paid time off for employees who have contracted COVID-19 or are required to be quarantined; and (iii) implementing increased health and safety protocols at all our facilities, including increased cleaning/sanitization of workspaces, restricting visitor access, mandating social distancing guidelines and increasing the availability of sanitization products. U.S and international government responses to the COVID-19 outbreak have included “shelter in place”, “stay at home” and similar types of orders. These orders typically exempt certain individuals and businesses needed to maintain continuity of operations of critical infrastructure sectors or that are deemed “essential” or contain similar exceptions and exemptions. Although we believe we are currently considered an “essential” business in our operating markets, if any of the applicable exceptions or exemptions are curtailed or revoked in the future, that would adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition. Furthermore, to the extent these exceptions or exemptions do not extend to our key suppliers and customers, this would also adversely impact our business, operating results and financial condition. We have exposure to the risks associated with instability in the global economy and financial markets, which may negatively impact our revenues, liquidity, suppliers and customers. Our financial performance depends, in large part, on conditions in the markets we serve and on the general condition of the global economy, which impacts these markets. Any sustained weakness in demand for our products and services resulting from a contraction or uncertainty in the global economy, including due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, could adversely impact our revenues and profitability. In addition, we believe that many of our suppliers and customers access global credit markets to provide liquidity, and in some cases, utilize external financing to purchase products or finance operations. If our customers are unable to access credit markets or lack liquidity, it may impact customer demand for our products and services. Furthermore, our products are sold in many industries, some of which are cyclical and may experience periodic contractions. Cyclical weakness in the industries that we serve could adversely affect demand for our products and affect our profitability and financial performance. More than half of our sales and operations are in non-U.S. jurisdictions and we are subject to the economic, political, regulatory and other risks of international operations. For the year ended December 31, 2020, approximately 54% of our revenues were from customers in countries outside of the United States. We have manufacturing facilities in Germany, the United Kingdom, China, Finland, Italy, India and other countries. We intend to continue to expand our international operations to the extent that suitable opportunities become available. Non-U.S. operations and United States export sales could be adversely affected as a result of: political or economic instability in certain countries; differences in foreign laws, including increased difficulties in protecting intellectual property and uncertainty in enforcement of contract rights; credit risks; currency fluctuations, in particular, changes in currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar, Euro, British Pound and the Chinese Renminbi; exchange controls; changes in and uncertainties with respect to tariffs and import/export trade restrictions (including changes in United States trade policy toward other countries, such as the imposition of tariffs and the resulting consequences), as well as other changes in political policy in the United States, China, the U.K. and certain European countries (including the impacts of the U.K.’s national referendum 13 resulting in the U.K.’s withdrawal from the European Union); royalty and tax increases; nationalization of private enterprises; civil unrest and protests, strikes, acts of terrorism, war or other armed conflict; shipping products during times of crisis or war; and other factors inherent in foreign operations. In addition, our expansion into new countries may require significant resources and the efforts and attention of our management and other personnel, which will divert resources from our existing business operations. As we expand our business globally, our success will depend, in large part, on our ability to anticipate and effectively manage these risks associated with our international operations. Shareholder and customer emphasis on environmental, social, and governance responsibility may impose additional costs on us or expose us to new risks. Our shareholders, customers and employees continue to expect a more proactive response to environmental, social, and governance (“ESG”) matters. We may incur increased costs and may be exposed to new risks responding to these higher expectations. The Company recently emphasized its commitment to making a positive impact on our shared planet with the announcement of environmental goals with respect to greenhouse gas emissions, renewable energy, water usage and landfill waste. We may face reputational challenges in the event that we are unable to achieve these goals or our ESG standards do not meet those set by certain constituencies. These reputational challenges could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Our revenues and operating results, especially in the High Pressure Solutions segment, depend on the level of activity in the energy industry, which is significantly affected by volatile oil and gas prices. Demand for certain products of our High Pressure Solutions segment, particularly in the upstream energy market, depends on the level of activity in oil and gas exploration, development and production, and is primarily tied to the number of working and available drilling rigs, number of wells those rigs drill annually, the amount of hydraulic fracturing horsepower required on average to fracture each well and, ultimately, oil and natural gas prices overall. The energy market is volatile as the worldwide demand for oil and natural gas fluctuates. Generally, when worldwide demand or our customers’ expectations of future prices for these commodities are depressed, the demand for our products used in drilling and recovery applications is reduced. Other factors, including availability of quality drilling prospects, exploration success, relative production costs and political and regulatory environments are also expected to affect the demand for our products. Worldwide military, political and economic events have in the past contributed to oil and gas price volatility and are likely to do so in the future. A change in economic conditions also puts pressure on our receivables and collections. Accordingly, our operating results for any particular period are not necessarily indicative of the operating results for any future period as the markets for our products have historically experienced volatility. In particular, orders in the High Pressure Solutions segment have historically corresponded to demand for oil and gas and petrochemical products and have been influenced by prices and inventory levels for oil and natural gas, rig count, number of wells those rigs drill annually, the amount of hydraulic fracturing horsepower required on average to fracture each well and other economic factors which we cannot reasonably predict. The High Pressure Solutions segment generated approximately 4% of our consolidated revenues for the year ended December 31, 2020. Our results of operations are subject to exchange rate and other currency risks. A significant movement in exchange rates could adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows. We conduct our business in many different currencies. A significant portion of our revenue, approximately 49% for the year ended December 31, 2020, is denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Accordingly, currency exchange rates, and in particular unfavorable movement in the exchange rates between U.S. dollars and Euros, British Pounds and Chinese Renminbi, affect our operating results. The effects of exchange rate fluctuations on our future operating results are unpredictable because of the number of currencies in which we do business and the potential volatility of exchange rates. We are also subject to the risks of currency controls and devaluations. Although historically not significant, if currency controls were enacted in countries where the Company generates significant cash balances, these controls may limit our ability to convert currencies into U.S. dollars or other currencies, as needed, or to pay dividends or make other payments from funds held by subsidiaries in the countries imposing such controls, which could adversely affect our liquidity. Currency devaluations could also negatively affect our operating margins and cash flows. 14 Potential governmental regulations restricting the use, and increased public attention to and litigation regarding the impacts, of hydraulic fracturing or other processes on which it relies could reduce demand for our products. Oil and natural gas extracted from unconventional sources, such as shale, tight sands and coal bed methane, frequently requires hydraulic fracturing. Recent initiatives to study, regulate or otherwise restrict hydraulic fracturing and processes on which it relies, such as water disposal, as well as litigation over hydraulic fracturing impacts, could adversely affect some of our customers and their demand for our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For example, although hydraulic fracturing currently is generally exempt from regulation under the U.S. Safe Drinking Water Act’s (“SDWA”) Underground Injection Control program and is typically regulated by state oil and natural gas commissions or similar agencies, several federal agencies have asserted regulatory authority over certain aspects of the process. These include, among others, a number of regulations issued and other steps taken by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (“EPA”) over the last five years, including its New Source Performance Standards issued in 2012, its June 2016 rules establishing new emissions standards for methane and additional standards for volatile organic compounds from certain new, modified and reconstructed equipment and processes in the oil and natural gas source category and its June 2016 rule prohibiting the discharge of wastewater from onshore unconventional oil and natural gas extraction facilities to publicly owned wastewater treatment plants; and the federal Bureau of Land Management (“BLM”) rule in March 2015 that established new or more stringent standards relating to hydraulic fracturing on federal and American Indian lands (which was the subject of litigation and which the BLM rescinded in December 2017). While the EPA in the Trump administration and the Trump administration more generally have indicated their interest in scaling back or rescinding regulations that inhibit the development of the U.S. oil and gas industry and have taken steps to do so, it is difficult to predict the extent to which such policies will be implemented or the outcome of litigation challenging such implementation, such as the suit the State of California’s attorney general filed in January 2018 challenging the BLM’s rescission of its March 2015 rule referred to above; in July 2018, the federal district judge in the Northern District of California, where the suit was filed, denied motions by the BLM and several petroleum industry groups to transfer the challenge to Wyoming. Moreover, some states and local governments have adopted, and other governmental entities are considering adopting, regulations that could impose more stringent requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations. For example, Texas, Colorado and North Dakota among others have adopted regulations that impose new or more stringent permitting, disclosure, disposal and well construction requirements on hydraulic fracturing operations. States could also elect to prohibit high volume hydraulic fracturing altogether, following the approach taken by the State of New York in 2015. Local land use restrictions, such as city ordinances, may restrict drilling in general and hydraulic fracturing in particular. Some state and federal regulatory agencies have also recently focused on a connection between the operation of injection wells used for oil and natural gas waste disposal and seismic activity. Similar concerns have been raised that hydraulic fracturing may also contribute to seismic activity. In March 2016, the United States Geological Survey identified six states with the most significant hazards from induced seismicity, including Oklahoma, Kansas, Texas, Colorado, New Mexico and Arkansas. In light of these concerns, some state regulatory agencies have modified their regulations or issued orders to address induced seismicity. For example, in December 2016, the Oklahoma Corporation Commission’s Oil and Gas Conservation Division (the “OCC Division”) and the Oklahoma Geologic Survey released well completion seismicity guidance, which requires operators to take certain prescriptive actions, including mitigation, following anomalous seismic activity within 1.25 miles of hydraulic fracturing operations. In February 2017, the OCC Division issued an order limiting future increases in the volume of oil and natural gas wastewater injected into the ground in an effort to reduce earthquakes in the state, and it announced further requirements (involving seismic monitoring) in February 2018. Ongoing lawsuits have also alleged that disposal well operations have caused damage to neighboring properties or otherwise violated state and federal rules regulating waste disposal. Increased regulation and attention given to induced seismicity could lead to greater opposition to, and litigation concerning, oil and natural gas activities utilizing hydraulic fracturing or injection wells for waste disposal. The adoption of more stringent regulations regarding hydraulic fracturing and the outcome of litigation over hydraulic fracturing could adversely affect some of our customers and their demand for our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We face competition in the markets we serve, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results. We actively compete with many companies producing similar products. Depending on the particular product and application, we experience competition based on a number of factors, including price, quality, performance and availability. We compete against many companies, including divisions of larger companies with greater financial resources than we possess. As a result, these competitors may be both domestically and internationally better able to withstand a change in conditions within the markets in which we compete and throughout the global economy as a whole. 15 In addition, our ability to compete effectively depends on how successfully we anticipate and respond to various competitive factors, including new competitors entering our markets, new products and services that may be introduced by competitors, changes in customer preferences, pricing pressures and new government regulations. If we are unable to anticipate our competitors’ development of new products and services, identify customer needs and preferences on a timely basis, or successfully introduce new products and services or modify existing products and service offerings in response to such competitive factors, we could lose customers to competitors. If we cannot compete successfully, our sales and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. Large or rapid increases in the cost of raw materials and component parts, substantial decreases in their availability or our dependence on particular suppliers of raw materials and component parts could materially and adversely affect our operating results. Our primary raw materials, directly and indirectly, are cast iron, aluminum and steel. We also purchase a large number of motors and, therefore, also have exposure to changes in the price of copper, which is a primary component of motors. We have long-term contracts with only a few suppliers of key components. Consequently, we are vulnerable to fluctuations in prices and availability of such raw materials. Factors such as supply and demand, freight costs and transportation availability, inventory levels of brokers and dealers, the level of imports and general economic conditions may affect the price and availability of raw materials. In addition, we use single sources of supply for certain iron castings, motors and other select engineered components that are critical in the manufacturing of our products. From time to time in recent years, we have experienced disruptions to our supply deliveries for raw materials and component parts and may experience further supply disruptions. Any such disruption could have a material adverse effect on our ability to timely meet our commitments to customers and, therefore, our operating results. Our operating results could be adversely affected by a loss or reduction of business with key customers or consolidation or the vertical integration of our customer base. We derive revenue from certain key customers, in particular with respect to our oilfield service products and services. The loss or reduction of significant contracts with any of these key customers could result in a material decrease of our future profitability and cash flows. In addition, the consolidation or vertical integration of key customers may result in the loss of certain customer contracts or impact demand or competition for our products. Any changes in such customers’ purchasing practices, or decline in such customers’ financial condition, may have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Some of our customers are significantly larger than we are, have greater financial and other resources and also have the ability to purchase products from our competitors. As a result of their size and position in the marketplace, some of our customers have significant purchasing leverage and could cause us to materially reduce the price of our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenue and profitability. In addition, in the petroleum product market, lost sales may be difficult to replace due to the relative concentration of the customer base. We are unable to predict what effect consolidation in our customers’ industries may have on prices, capital spending by customers, selling strategies, competitive position, our ability to retain customers or our ability to negotiate favorable agreements with customers. Credit and counterparty risks could harm our business. The financial condition of our customers could affect our ability to market our products or collect receivables. In addition, financial difficulties faced by our customers as a result of an adverse economic event or other market factors may lead to cancellation or delay of orders. Our customers may suffer financial difficulties that make them unable to pay for a product or solution when payments become due, or they may decide not to pay us, either as a matter of corporate decision-making or in response to changes in local laws and regulations. Although historically not material, we cannot be certain that, in the future, expenses or losses for uncollectible amounts will not have a material adverse effect on our revenues, earnings and cash flows. Acquisitions and integrating such acquisitions create certain risks and may affect our operating results. We have acquired businesses in the past and may continue to acquire businesses or assets in the future. The acquisition and integration of businesses or assets involves a number of risks. The core risks are valuation (negotiating a fair price for the business), integration (managing the process of integrating the acquired company’s people, products, technology and other assets to extract the value and synergies projected to be realized in connection with the acquisition), regulation (obtaining necessary regulatory or other government approvals that may be necessary to complete acquisitions) and diligence (identifying undisclosed or unknown liabilities or restrictions that will be assumed in the acquisition). 16 In addition, acquisitions outside of the United States often involve additional or increased risks including, for example: • managing geographically separated organizations, systems and facilities; • integrating personnel with diverse business backgrounds and organizational cultures; • complying with non-U.S. regulatory requirements; • fluctuations in currency exchange rates; • enforcement of intellectual property rights in some non-U.S. countries; • difficulty entering new non-U.S. markets due to, among other things, consumer acceptance and business knowledge of these new markets; and • general economic and political conditions. The process of integrating operations could cause an interruption of, or loss of momentum in, the activities of one or more of our combined businesses and the possible loss of key personnel. The diversion of management’s attention and any delays or difficulties encountered in connection with acquisitions and the integration of an acquired company’s operations could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or prospects. Dispositions create certain risks and may affect our operating results. Dispositions involve a number of risks and present financial, managerial and operational challenges, including diversion of management attention from running our core businesses, increased expense associated with the dispositions, potential disputes with the customers or suppliers of the disposed businesses, potential disputes with the acquirers of the disposed businesses and a potential dilutive effect on our earnings per share. If dispositions are not completed in a timely manner, there may be a negative effect on our cash flows and/or our ability to execute our strategy. In addition, we may not realize some or all of the anticipated benefits of our dispositions. As mentioned above, the Company has entered into an agreement to sell its HPS business to AIP. Under the agreement, the Company will receive cash consideration of $300 million at close for its majority interest and retain a 45% ownership interest in the HPS business. This transaction is expected to close in the first half of 2021, subject to regulatory approvals and customary closing conditions. See Note 25 “Subsequent Events” of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to this transaction. The loss of, or disruption in, our distribution network could have a negative impact on our abilities to ship products, meet customer demand and otherwise operate our business. We sell a significant portion of our products through independent distributors and sales representatives. We rely in large part on the orderly operation of this distribution network, which depends on adherence to shipping schedules and effective management. We conduct all of our shipping through independent third parties. Although we believe that our receiving, shipping and distribution process is efficient and well-positioned to support our operations and strategic plans, we cannot provide assurance that we have anticipated all issues or that events beyond our control, such as natural disasters or other catastrophic events, labor disagreements, acquisition of distributors by a competitor, consolidation within our distributor network or shipping problems, will not disrupt our distribution network. If complications arise within a segment of our distribution network, the remaining network may not be able to support the resulting additional distribution demands. Any of these disruptions or complications could negatively impact our revenues and costs. Our ongoing and expected restructuring plans and other cost savings initiatives may not be as effective as we anticipate, and we may fail to realize the cost savings and increased efficiencies that we expect to result from these actions. Our operating results could be negatively affected by our inability to effectively implement such restructuring plans and other cost savings initiatives. We continually seek ways to simplify or improve processes, eliminate excess capacity and reduce costs in all areas of our operations, which from time to time includes restructuring activities. We have implemented significant restructuring activities across our global manufacturing, sales and distribution footprint, which include workforce reductions and facility consolidations. We incurred restructuring charges of $92.9 million and $17.1 million in the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Costs of future initiatives may be material and the savings associated with them are subject to a variety of risks, including our inability to effectively eliminate duplicative back office overhead and overlapping sales personnel, rationalize manufacturing capacity, synchronize information technology systems, consolidate warehousing and distribution facilities and shift production to more economical facilities. As a result, the contemplated costs to effect these initiatives may materially exceed estimates. The initiatives we are contemplating may require consultation with various employees, labor 17 representatives or regulators, and such consultations may influence the timing, costs and extent of expected savings and may result in the loss of skilled employees in connection with the initiatives. Although we have considered the impact of local regulations, negotiations with employee representatives and the related costs associated with our restructuring activities, factors beyond the control of management may affect the timing of these projects and therefore affect when savings will be achieved under the plans. There can be no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement these cost savings initiatives in the time frames contemplated (or at all) or that we will realize the projected benefits of these and other restructuring and cost savings initiatives. If we are unable to implement our cost savings initiatives, our business may be adversely affected. Moreover, our continued implementation of cost savings initiatives may have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, as we consolidate facilities and relocate manufacturing processes to lower-cost regions, our success will depend on our ability to continue to meet customer demand and maintain a high level of quality throughout the transition. Failure to adequately meet customer demand or maintain a high level or quality could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our success depends on our executive management and other key personnel and our ability to attract and retain top talent throughout the Company. Our future success depends to a significant degree on the skills, experience and efforts of our executive management and other key personnel and their ability to provide us with uninterrupted leadership and direction. The failure to retain our executive officers and other key personnel or a failure to provide adequate succession plans could have an adverse impact. Our future success also depends on our ability to attract, retain and develop qualified personnel at all levels of the organization. The availability of highly qualified talent is limited in a number of the jurisdictions in which we operate, and the competition for talent is robust. A failure to attract, retain and develop new qualified personnel throughout the organization could have an adverse effect on our operations and implementation of our strategic plan. If we are unable to develop new products and technologies, our competitive position may be impaired, which could materially and adversely affect our sales and market share. The markets in which we operate are characterized by changing technologies and introductions of new products and services. Our ability to develop new products based on technological innovation, including those that drive sustainability, energy reduction and the reduction and/or recycling of water in our customers’ processes, can affect our competitive position and often requires the investment of significant resources. Difficulties or delays in research, development or production of new products and technologies, or failure to gain market acceptance of new products and technologies, may significantly reduce future revenues and materially and adversely affect our competitive position. We may not have sufficient resources to continue to make the investment required to maintain or increase our market share or that our investments will be successful. If we do not compete successfully, our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Cost overruns, delays, penalties or liquidated damages could negatively impact our results, particularly with respect to fixed-price contracts for custom engineered products. A portion of our revenues and earnings is generated through fixed-price contracts for custom engineered products. Certain of these contracts provide for penalties or liquidated damages for failure to timely perform our obligations under the contract, or require that we, at our expense, correct and remedy to the satisfaction of the other party certain defects. Because substantially all of our custom engineered product contracts are at a fixed price, we face the risk that cost overruns, delays, penalties or liquidated damages may exceed, erode or eliminate our expected profit margin, or cause us to record a loss on our projects. The risk of non-compliance with U.S. and foreign laws and regulations applicable to our international operations could have a significant impact on our results of operations, financial condition or strategic objectives. Our global operations subject us to regulation by U.S. federal and state laws and multiple foreign laws, regulations and policies, which could result in conflicting legal requirements. These laws and regulations are complex, change frequently, have become more stringent over time and increase our cost of doing business. These laws and regulations include import and export control, environmental, health and safety regulations, data privacy requirements, international labor laws and work councils and anti-corruption and bribery laws such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act, the U.N. Convention Against Bribery and local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials. 18 We are subject to the risk that we, our employees, our affiliated entities, contractors, agents or their respective officers, directors, employees and agents may take actions determined to be in violation of any of these laws, for which we might be held responsible, particularly as we expand our operations geographically through organic growth and acquisitions. An actual or alleged violation could result in substantial fines, sanctions, civil or criminal penalties, debarment from government contracts, curtailment of operations in certain jurisdictions, competitive or reputational harm, litigation or regulatory action and other consequences that might adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition or strategic objectives. Changes in tax or other laws, regulations, or adverse determinations by taxing or other governmental authorities could increase our effective tax rate and cash taxes paid or otherwise affect our financial condition or operating results. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (“Tax Act”). The Tax Act makes broad and complex changes to the U.S. tax code that affected 2017 and 2018, including, but not limited to (1) requiring a one-time transition tax on certain unrepatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries that is payable over eight years and (2) bonus depreciation that will allow for full expensing of qualified property. The Tax Act also established new tax laws that significantly affected recent and future tax years. While we monitor proposals and other developments that would materially impact our tax burden and/or effective tax rate and investigate our options, we could still be subject to increased taxation on a going forward basis no matter what action we undertake if certain legislative proposals or regulatory changes are enacted, certain tax treaties are amended and/or our interpretation of applicable tax or other laws is challenged and determined to be incorrect. The inability to realize any anticipated tax benefits related to our operations and corporate structure could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. See Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” and Note 15 “Income Taxes” to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for additional information related to our accounting for income tax matters. The inability to realize any anticipated tax benefits related to our operations and corporate structure could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Further, the specific future impacts of the Tax Act on holders of our common shares are uncertain and could in certain instances be adverse. We urge our stockholders to consult with their legal and tax advisors with respect to any such legislation and the potential tax consequences of investing in our common stock. A significant portion of our assets consists of goodwill and other intangible assets, the value of which may be reduced if we determine that those assets are impaired. We applied the acquisition method of accounting and established a new basis of accounting in 2013 as part of the KKR Transaction. We also recognized substantial goodwill and other intangible assets through the acquisition of and merger with Ingersoll Rand Industrial. As of December 31, 2020, the net carrying value of goodwill and other intangible assets, net represented $11.0 billion, or 69%, of our total assets. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are evaluated for impairment annually, or more frequently if circumstances indicate impairment may have occurred. Impairments, if any, could have a material adverse effect to our consolidated financial position or results of operations. In 2020, we recognized an impairment charge related to other intangible assets of $19.9 million within the Industrial Technologies and Services segment. See Note 8 “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for additional information related to impairment testing for goodwill and other intangible assets and the associated charges taken. Our business could suffer if we experience employee work stoppages, union and work council campaigns or other labor difficulties. As of December 31, 2020, we had approximately 15,900 employees of which approximately 5,900 were located in the United States. Of those employees located outside of the United States, a significant portion are represented by works councils and labor unions, and of those employees located in the United States, approximately 200 are represented by labor unions. Although we believe that our relations with employees are satisfactory and have not experienced any material work stoppages, work stoppages have occurred, and may in the future occur, and we may not be successful in negotiating new collective bargaining agreements. In addition, negotiations with our union employees may (1) result in significant increases in our cost of labor, (2) divert management’s attention away from operating our business or (3) break down and result in the disruption of our operations. The occurrence of any of the preceding conditions could impair our ability to manufacture our products and result in increased costs and/or decreased operating results. 19 We are a defendant in certain asbestos and silica-related personal injury lawsuits, which could adversely affect our financial condition. We have been named as a defendant in many asbestos and silica-related personal injury lawsuits. The plaintiffs in these suits allege exposure to asbestos or silica from multiple sources, and typically we are one of approximately 25 or more named defendants. We believe that, given our financial reserves and anticipated insurance recoveries, the pending and potential future lawsuits are not likely to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or liquidity. However, future developments, including, without limitation, potential insolvencies of insurance companies or other defendants, an adverse determination in the Adams County Case (discussed below), or other inability to collect from our historical insurers or indemnitors, could cause a different outcome. In addition, even if any damages payable by us in any individual lawsuit are not material, the aggregate damages and related defense costs could be material and could materially adversely affect our financial condition if we were to receive an adverse judgment in a number of these lawsuits. Accordingly, the resolution of pending or future lawsuits may have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or liquidity. See Note 20 “Contingencies” to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. A natural disaster, catastrophe, pandemic or other event could adversely affect our operations. Some of our operations involve risks of, among other things, property damage, which could curtail our operations. For example, if one or more of our manufacturing facilities are damaged by severe weather or any other disaster, accident, catastrophe or event, our operations could be significantly interrupted impacting our ability to produce products and sell products to customers. These interruptions might involve significant damage to, among other things, property, and repairs might take from a week or less for a minor incident to many months for a major interruption. In addition, disruptions in our supply chain due to natural disasters, catastrophes, pandemic or other events could reduce our ability to produce products and satisfy customer demand. Similar interruptions could result from damage to production or other facilities that provide supplies or other raw materials to our plants. Interruptions to our operations and supply chain could also result from pandemic which could adversely impact our workforce or that of our suppliers, causing disruption to the manufacturing process or our supply chain, and last a week or months depending on the severity of the disruption. Information systems failure may disrupt our business and result in financial loss and liability to our customers. Our business is highly dependent on financial, accounting and other data-processing systems and other communications and information systems, including our enterprise resource planning tools. We process a large number of transactions on a daily basis and rely upon the proper functioning of computer systems. If any of these systems fail, whether caused by fire, other natural disaster, power or telecommunications failure, acts of cyber terrorism or war or otherwise, or they do not function correctly, we could suffer financial loss, business disruption, liability to our customers, regulatory intervention or damage to our reputation. If our systems are unable to accommodate an increasing volume of transactions, our ability to grow could be limited. Although we have backup systems, procedures and capabilities in place, they may also fail or be inadequate. Further, to the extent that we may have customer information in our databases, any unauthorized disclosure of, or access to, such information could result in claims under data protection laws and regulations. If any of these risks materialize, our reputation and our ability to conduct our business may be materially adversely affected. The nature of our products creates the possibility of significant product liability and warranty claims, which could harm our business. Customers use some of our products in potentially hazardous applications that can cause injury or loss of life and damage to property, equipment or the environment. In addition, our products are integral to the production process for some end-users and any failure of our products could result in a suspension of operations. Although we maintain quality controls and procedures, we cannot be certain that our products will be completely free from defects. We maintain amounts and types of insurance coverage that we believe are currently adequate and consistent with normal industry practice for a company of our relative size, and we limit our liability by contract wherever possible. However, we cannot guarantee that insurance will be available or adequate to cover all liabilities incurred. We also may not be able to maintain insurance in the future at levels we believe are necessary and at rates we consider reasonable. We may be named as a defendant in product liability or other lawsuits asserting potentially large claims if an accident occurs at a location where our equipment and services have been or are being used. 20 Environmental compliance costs and liabilities could adversely affect our financial condition. Our operations and properties are subject to increasingly stringent domestic and foreign laws and regulations relating to environmental protection, including laws and regulations governing air emissions, water discharges, waste management and workplace safety. Under such laws and regulations, we can be subject to substantial fines and sanctions for violations and be required to install costly pollution control equipment or put into effect operational changes to limit pollution emissions or decrease the likelihood of accidental hazardous substance releases. We use and generate hazardous substances and waste in our manufacturing operations. In addition, many of our current and former properties are, or have been, used for industrial purposes. We have been identified as a potentially responsible party with respect to several sites designated for cleanup under U.S. federal “Superfund” or similar state laws that may impose joint and several liability for cleanup of certain waste sites and for related natural resource damages. An accrued liability on our balance sheet reflects costs that are probable and estimable for our projected financial obligations relating to these matters. If we have underestimated our remaining financial obligations, we may face greater exposure that could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. We have experienced, and expect to continue to experience, operating costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations. In addition, new laws and regulations, stricter enforcement of existing laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new cleanup requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis for new or increased liabilities that could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. Third parties may infringe upon our intellectual property or may claim we have infringed their intellectual property, and we may expend significant resources enforcing or defending our rights or suffer competitive injury. Our success depends in part on the creation, maintenance and protection of our proprietary technology and intellectual property rights. We rely on a combination of patents, tradenames, trade secrets, copyrights, confidentiality provisions, contractual restrictions and licensing arrangements to establish and protect our proprietary rights. Our nondisclosure agreements and confidentiality agreements may not effectively prevent disclosure of our proprietary information, technologies and processes, and may not provide an adequate remedy in the event of breach of such agreements or unauthorized disclosure of such information, and if a competitor lawfully obtains or independently develops our trade secrets, we would have no right to prevent such competitor from using such technology or information to compete with us, either of which could harm our competitive position. Our applications for patent and tradename protection may not be granted, or the claims or scope of such issued patents or registered tradenames may not be sufficiently broad to protect our products. In addition, effective patent, copyright, tradename and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited for some of our tradenames and patents in some foreign countries. We may be required to spend significant resources to monitor and police our intellectual property rights, and we cannot guarantee that such efforts will be successful in preventing infringement or misappropriation. If we fail to successfully enforce these intellectual property rights, our competitive position could suffer, which could harm our operating results. Although we make a significant effort to avoid infringing known proprietary rights of third parties, the steps we take to prevent misappropriation, infringement or other violation of the intellectual property of others may not be successful and from time to time we may receive notice that a third party believes that our products may be infringing certain patents, tradenames or other proprietary rights of such third party. Responding to and defending such claims, regardless of their merit, can be costly and time-consuming, can divert management’s attention and other resources, and we may not prevail. Depending on the resolution of such claims, we may be barred from using a specific technology or other rights, may be required to redesign or re-engineer a product which may require significant resources, may be required to enter into licensing arrangements from the third party claiming infringement (which may not be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all), or may become liable for significant damages. If any of the foregoing occurs, our ability to compete could be affected or our business, financial condition and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. We face risks associated with our pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. We have both funded and unfunded pension and other postretirement benefit plans worldwide. As of December 31, 2020, our projected benefit obligations under our pension and other postretirement benefit plans exceeded the fair value of plan assets by an aggregate of approximately $287.0 million (“unfunded status”). Estimates for the amount and timing of the future funding 21 obligations of these benefit plans are based on various assumptions. These assumptions include discount rates, rates of compensation increases, expected long-term rates of return on plan assets and expected healthcare cost trend rates. If our assumptions prove incorrect, our funding obligations may increase, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We have invested the plan assets of our funded benefit plans in various equity and debt securities. A deterioration in the value of plan assets could cause the unfunded status of these benefit plans to increase, thereby increasing our obligation to make additional contributions to these plans. An obligation to make contributions to our benefit plans could reduce the cash available for working capital and other corporate uses, and may have an adverse impact on our operations, financial condition and liquidity. Risks Related to Our Indebtedness Our substantial indebtedness could have important adverse consequences and adversely affect our financial condition. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2020, we had total indebtedness of $3,899.5 million, and we had availability under the Revolving Credit Facility of $998.1 million. Our high level of debt could have important consequences, including: making it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations with respect to our debt; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions, or other general corporate requirements; requiring a substantial portion of our cash flows to be dedicated to debt service payments instead of other purposes, thereby reducing the amount of cash flows available for working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; increasing our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions; exposing us to the risk of increased interest rates as certain of our borrowings, including borrowings under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities, are at variable rates of interest; limiting our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in the industries in which we compete; placing us at a disadvantage compared to other, less leveraged competitors; increasing our cost of borrowing; and hampering our ability to execute on our growth strategy. For a complete description of the Company’s credit facilities and definitions of capitalized terms used in this section, see Note 10 “Debt” to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. Our ability to make scheduled payments on, or refinance, our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic, industry and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control (as well as and including those factors discussed under “Risks Related to Our Business” above). We may be unable to maintain a level of cash flow from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flow and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures or to dispose of material assets or operations, seek additional debt or equity capital, or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. We may not be able to implement any such alternative measures on commercially reasonable terms or at all and, even if successful, those alternative actions may not allow us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. If we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and the lenders under the Revolving Credit Facility could terminate their commitments to loan money, and our secured lenders (including the lenders under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities) could foreclose against the assets securing their borrowings and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. Despite our level of indebtedness, we and our subsidiaries may still be able to incur substantially more debt, including off-balance sheet financing, contractual obligations and general and commercial liabilities. This could further exacerbate the risks to our financial condition described above. We and our subsidiaries may be able to incur significant additional indebtedness in the future, including off-balance sheet financings, contractual obligations and general and commercial liabilities. Although the credit agreement governing the Senior Secured Credit Facilities contains restrictions on the incurrence of additional indebtedness, these restrictions are subject to a number of qualifications and exceptions, and the additional indebtedness incurred in compliance with these restrictions could be substantial. In addition, we can increase the borrowing availability under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities by up to $1,600.0 22 million in the form of additional commitments under the Revolving Credit Facility and/or incremental term loans plus an additional amount so long as we do not exceed a specified senior secured leverage ratio. We also can incur additional secured indebtedness under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities if certain specified conditions are met under the credit agreement governing the Senior Secured Credit Facilities. If new debt is added to our current debt levels, the related risks that we now face could intensify. For a complete description of the Company’s credit facilities and definitions of capitalized terms used in this section, see Note 10 “Debt” to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. The terms of the credit agreement governing the Senior Secured Credit Facilities may restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes or to take certain actions. The credit agreement governing the Senior Secured Credit Facilities contains a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our best interest, including restrictions on our ability to: incur additional indebtedness and guarantee indebtedness; pay dividends, make other distributions in respect of, or repurchase or redeem capital stock; prepay, redeem or repurchase certain debt; make loans, investments and other restricted payments; sell or otherwise dispose of assets; incur liens; enter into transactions with affiliates; enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries’ ability to pay dividends; consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets; make needed capital expenditures; make strategic acquisitions, investments or enter into joint ventures; plan for or react to market conditions or otherwise execute our business strategies; and engage in business activities, including future opportunities, that may be in our interest. A breach of the covenants under the credit agreement governing the Senior Secured Credit Facilities could result in an event of default under the applicable indebtedness. Such a default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt principal and/or related interest payments and may result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. In addition, an event of default under the credit agreement governing our Senior Secured Credit Facilities would permit the lenders under our Revolving Credit Facility to terminate all commitments to extend further credit under that facility. Furthermore, if we were unable to repay the amounts due and payable under our Senior Secured Credit Facilities, those lenders could proceed against the collateral granted to them to secure that indebtedness. In the event our lenders or noteholders accelerate the repayment of our borrowings and/or interest, we and our subsidiaries may not have sufficient assets to repay that indebtedness. Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. Borrowings under our Senior Secured Credit Facilities are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness will increase even though the amount borrowed will remain the same, and our net income and cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, will correspondingly decrease. We utilize derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to market risks from changes in interest rates on our variable rate indebtedness and we will be exposed to risks related to counterparty credit worthiness or non-performance of these instruments. We may enter into pay-fixed interest rate swap instruments from time to time to limit our exposure to changes in variable interest rates. Such instruments will result in economic losses should interest rates not rise above the pay-fixed interest rate in the derivative contracts. We will be exposed to credit-related losses which could impact the results of operations in the event of fluctuations in the fair value of the interest rate swaps due to a change in the credit worthiness or non-performance by the counterparties to the interest rate swaps. See Note 18 “Hedging Activities, Derivative Instruments and Credit Risk” to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. If the financial institutions that are part of the syndicate of our Revolving Credit Facility fail to extend credit under our facility or reduce the borrowing base under our Revolving Credit Facility, our liquidity and results of operations may be adversely affected. We have access to capital through our Revolving Credit Facility, which is part of our Senior Secured Credit Facilities. Each financial institution which is part of the syndicate for our Revolving Credit Facility is responsible on a several, but not joint, basis for providing a portion of the loans to be made under our facility. If any participant or group of participants with a significant portion of the commitments in our Revolving Credit Facility fails to satisfy its or their respective obligations to 23 extend credit under the facility and we are unable to find a replacement for such participant or participants on a timely basis (if at all), our liquidity may be adversely affected. The Company may face risk associated with the discontinuation of and transition from currently used financial reference rates. LIBOR and certain other floating rate benchmark indices to which our floating rate debt is tied, including, without limitation, the Euro Interbank Offered Rate (collectively, “IBORs”) are the subject of recent national, international and regulatory guidance and proposals for reform. In a speech on July 27, 2017, Andrew Bailey, the Chief Executive of the Financial Conduct Authority of the U.K., or the FCA, announced the FCA’s intention to cease sustaining LIBOR after 2021. The FCA has statutory powers to require panel banks to contribute to LIBOR where necessary. The FCA has decided not to ask, or to require, that panel banks continue to submit contributions to LIBOR beyond the end of 2021. The FCA has indicated that it expects that the current panel banks will voluntarily sustain LIBOR until the end of 2021. On November 30, 2020, the FCA announced that subject to confirmation following its consultation with the administrator of LIBOR, it would cease publication of the one-week and two-month USD LIBOR immediately after December 31, 2021 and cease publication of the remaining tenors immediately after June 30, 2023. Additionally, the U.S. Federal Reserve Board has advised banks to stop entering into new USD LIBOR based contracts. Other jurisdictions have also indicated they will implement reforms or phase-outs, which are currently scheduled to take effect at the end of calendar year 2021. The U.S. Federal Reserve, in conjunction with the Alternative Reference Rates Committee, a steering committee comprised of large U.S. financial institutions, has identified the Secured Overnight Financing Rate, or SOFR, a new index calculated by short-term repurchase agreements, backed by Treasury securities, as its preferred alternative rate for LIBOR. At this time, it is not possible to predict how markets will respond to SOFR or other alternative reference rates as the transition away from the IBOR benchmarks is anticipated in coming years. As of December 31, 2020, we had $3.9 billion of floated rate debt with maximum maturities extending past 2021 tied to IBOR benchmarks. There is currently no definitive information regarding the future utilization of any IBOR benchmark or of any particular replacement rate. In addition, any IBOR benchmark may perform differently during any phase-out period than in the past. As such, the potential effect of any such event on our cost of capital cannot yet be determined and any changes to benchmark interest rates could increase our financing costs, which could impact our results of operations and cash flows. In addition, we may need to renegotiate certain of our debt agreements that extend past 2021 with lenders, which could require us to incur significant expense and may subject us to disputes or litigation over the appropriateness or comparability to the relevant IBOR benchmark of the replacement reference rates. We are assessing the impact of a potential transition from IBOR; however, we cannot reasonably estimate the impact of the transition at this time.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion contains management’s discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations and should be read together with “Item 6. Selected Financial Data” and our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. This discussion contains forward-looking statements and involves numerous risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in any forward-looking statements as a result of many factors, including those set forth under the “Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements,” “Item 1A. Risk Factors” and elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Executive Overview Our Company Ingersoll Rand is a global market leader with a broad range of innovative and mission-critical air, fluid, energy, specialty vehicle and medical technologies, providing services and solutions to increase industrial productivity and efficiency. We manufacture one of the broadest and most complete ranges of compressor, pump, vacuum and blower products in our markets, which, when combined with our global geographic footprint and application expertise, allows us to provide differentiated product and service offerings to our customers. Our products are sold under a collection of premier, market-leading brands, including Ingersoll Rand, Gardner Denver, Club Car, CompAir, Nash, Elmo Rietschle, Robuschi, Thomas, Milton Roy, ARO, Emco Wheaton and Runtech Systems, which we believe are globally recognized in their respective end-markets and known for product quality, reliability, efficiency and superior customer service. These attributes, along with over 160 years of engineering heritage, generate strong brand loyalty for our products and foster long-standing customer relationships, which we believe have resulted in leading market positions within each of our operating segments. We have sales in more than 175 countries and our diverse customer base utilizes our products across a wide array of end-markets that have favorable near- and long-term growth prospects, including industrial manufacturing, energy (with particular exposure to the North American upstream land-based market), transportation, medical and laboratory sciences, food and beverage packaging and chemical processing. Our products and services are critical to the processes and systems in which they are utilized, which are often complex and function in harsh conditions where the cost of failure or downtime is high. However, our products and services typically represent only a small portion of the costs of the overall systems or functions that they support. As a result, our customers place a high value on our application expertise, product reliability and the responsiveness of our service. To support our customers and 29 market presence, we maintain significant global scale with 65 key manufacturing facilities, approximately 50 complementary service and repair centers across six continents and approximately 15,900 employees worldwide as of December 31, 2020. The process-critical nature of our product applications, coupled with the standard wear and tear replacement cycles associated with the usage of our products, generates opportunities to support customers with our broad portfolio of aftermarket parts, consumables and services. Customers place a high value on minimizing any time their operations are offline. As a result, the availability of replacement parts, consumables and our repair and support services are key components of our value proposition. Our large installed base of products provides a recurring revenue stream through our aftermarket parts, consumables and services offerings. As a result, our aftermarket revenue is significant, representing 36.1% of total Company revenue and approximately 42.8% of our combined Industrial Technologies and Services and High Pressure Solutions segments’ revenue in 2020. Components of Our Revenue and Expenses Revenues We generate revenue from sales of original equipment and associated aftermarket parts, consumables and services. We sell our products and deliver services directly to end-users and through independent distribution channels, depending on the product line and geography. Revenue derived from short duration contracts is recognized at a single point in time when control is transferred to the customer, generally at shipment or when delivery has occurred or as services are performed. Certain contracts are highly-engineered and unique to customer specifications. Depending on the contractual terms, revenue is recognized either over the duration of the contract or at contract completion when control is transferred to the customer. Expenses Cost of Sales Cost of sales includes purchased materials, labor and overhead related to manufactured products and aftermarket parts sold during a period. Depreciation of manufacturing equipment and facilities is included in cost of sales. Purchased materials represent the majority of costs of sales, with steel, aluminum, copper and partially finished castings representing our most significant materials inputs. Stock-based compensation expense for employees associated with the manufacture of products or delivery of services to customers is included in cost of sales. We have instituted a global sourcing strategy to take advantage of coordinated purchasing opportunities of key materials across our manufacturing plant locations. Cost of sales for services includes direct labor, parts and other overhead costs including depreciation of equipment and facilities, to deliver repair, maintenance and other field services to our customers. Selling and Administrative Expenses Selling and administrative expenses consist of (i) salaries and other employee-related expenses for our selling and administrative functions and other activities not associated with the manufacture of products or delivery of services to customers; (ii) facility operating expenses for selling and administrative activities, including office rent, maintenance, depreciation and insurance; (iii) marketing and direct costs of selling products and services to customers including internal and external sales commissions; (iv) research and development expenditures; (v) professional and consultant fees; (vi) employee related stock-based compensation for our selling and administrative functions and (vii) other miscellaneous expenses. Certain corporate expenses, including those related to our shared service centers in the United States and Europe that directly benefit our businesses are allocated to our business segments. Certain corporate administrative expenses, including corporate executive compensation, treasury, certain information technology, internal audit and tax compliance, are not allocated to the business segments. Amortization of Intangible Assets Amortization of intangible assets represents the amortization of finite lived intangible assets recognized through accounting for acquisitions — including customer relationships, tradenames, and developed technology — as well as internal-use software. Impairment of Other Intangible Assets Impairment of other intangible assets represents the recognition of non-cash charges to reduce the carrying value of intangible assets other than goodwill to their fair value. 30 Other Operating Expense, Net Other operating expense, net includes foreign currency gains and losses, restructuring charges, acquisition and integration costs, certain litigation and contract settlement losses, environmental remediation and other miscellaneous operating expenses. Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes The provision or benefit for income taxes includes U.S. federal, state and local income taxes and all non-U.S. income taxes. We are subject to income tax in approximately 46 jurisdictions outside of the United States. Because we conduct operations on a global basis, our effective tax rate depends, and will continue to depend, on the geographic distribution of our pre-tax earnings among several different taxing jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate can also vary based on changes in the tax rates of the different jurisdictions, the availability of tax credits and non-deductible items. Items Affecting our Reported Results General Economic Conditions and Capital Spending in the Industries We Serve Our financial results closely follow changes in the industries and end-markets we serve. Demand for most of our products depends on the level of new capital investment and planned and unplanned maintenance expenditures by our customers. The level of capital expenditures depends, in turn, on the general economic conditions as well as access to capital at reasonable cost. In particular, demand for our industrial products in our Industrial Technologies and Services and Precision and Science Technologies segment generally correlate with the rate of total industrial capacity utilization and the rate of change of industrial production. Capacity utilization rates above 80% have historically indicated a strong demand environment for industrial equipment. Demand for certain businesses in our Precision and Science Technologies segment are driven by favorable trends in healthcare spend due to an aging population requiring medical care and increased investment in health solutions and safety infrastructures in emerging economies. In our High Pressure Solutions segment, demand for our products that is influenced heavily by energy prices and the expectation as to future trends in those prices. Energy prices have historically been cyclical in nature and are affected by a wide range of factors. In addition to energy prices, demand for our upstream energy products are positively impacted by increasing global land rig count, drilled but uncompleted wells, the level of hydraulic fracturing intensity and activity measured by horsepower utilization and lateral lengths as well as drilling and completion capital expenditures. Over longer time periods, we believe that demand for all of our products also tends to follow economic growth patterns indicated by the rates of change in the GDP around the world, as augmented by secular trends in each segment. Our ability to grow and our financial performance will also be affected by our ability to address a variety of challenges and opportunities that are a consequence of our global operations, including efficiently utilizing our global sales, manufacturing and distribution capabilities and engineering innovative new product applications for end-users in a variety of geographic markets. Foreign Currency Fluctuations A significant portion of our revenues, approximately 49% for the year ended December 31, 2020, was recognized by subsidiaries with a functional currency other than the U.S. dollar. A significant portion of our costs are also denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Changes in foreign exchange rates can therefore impact our results of operations and are quantified when significant to our discussion. Factors Affecting the Comparability of our Results of Operations As a result of a number of factors, our historical results of operations are not comparable from period to period and may not be comparable to our financial results of operations in future periods. Key factors affecting the comparability of our results of operations are summarized below. Acquisition of Ingersoll Rand Industrial On February 29, 2020, we completed the acquisition of Ingersoll Rand Industrial. We reorganized our reportable segments in connection with this transaction and formed four new reportable segments. • Industrial Technologies and Services – Ingersoll Rand Industrial’s Compression Technologies and Services (“CTS”) and Power Tools and Lift (“PTL”) businesses joined the legacy Gardner Denver Industrial segment (excluding the Specialty Pump businesses) and the midstream and downstream portions of the Gardner Denver Energy segment to form the new “Industrial Technologies and Services” segment. 31 • Precision and Science Technologies – Ingersoll Rand Industrial’s Precision Flow Systems (“PFS”) and ARO businesses joined the legacy Gardner Denver Medical segment and Specialty Pump businesses from the legacy Gardner Denver Industrial segment to form the new “Precision and Science Technologies” segment. • Specialty Vehicle Technologies – Ingersoll Rand Industrial’s Club Car golf, utility and consumer low-speed vehicles business formed the new “Specialty Vehicle Technologies” segment. • High Pressure Solutions – The upstream energy portion of the legacy Gardner Denver Energy segment was disaggregated to form the new “High Pressure Solutions” segment. Ingersoll Rand Industrial is included in our results of operations beginning on the acquisition date (close of business February 29, 2020). Comparability between the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 will be affected by ten months of activity from Ingersoll Rand Industrial. Subsequent to the date of acquisition, in the year ended December 31, 2020, the Ingersoll Rand Industrial acquisition contributed $1,787.4 million, $406.1 million, and $741.4 million of revenue to the Industrial Technologies and Services, Precision and Science Technologies and Specialty Vehicle Technologies segments, respectively. See Note 3 “Business Combinations” to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for further discussion of the acquisition of Ingersoll Rand Industrial. Other acquisitions Part of our strategy for growth is to acquire complementary flow control and compression equipment businesses, which provide access to new technologies or geographies or improve our aftermarket offerings. In addition to the Ingersoll Rand Industrial transaction discussed above, we have acquired several other businesses during the three year period ending December 31, 2020. While these acquisitions are not individually significant or significant in the aggregate, may be relevant when comparing our results from period to period. See Note 3 “Business Combinations” to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for further discussion of these acquisitions. Impact of Coronavirus (COVID-19) We continue to assess and actively manage the impact of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic on our global operations and also the operations of our suppliers and customers. Overall demand for our products has decreased as a result of the pandemic, which impacted our operating results for the year ended December 31, 2020. We are adhering to all state and country mandates and guidelines wherever we operate. Although certain of our facilities were closed for a period of time during the COVID-19 pandemic, currently all our major manufacturing locations are operational, in accordance with country mandates and guidelines. We are taking certain actions to reduce costs and preserve cash given the rapidly changing environment. The length of time the pandemic will impact our operations, and the operations of our customers and suppliers remains uncertain. See “The COVID-19 pandemic has adversely affected our business and results of operations, and could have a material and adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition in the future” in Part II Item 1A. “Risk Factors” included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Variability within Upstream Energy Markets We sell products and services to customers in upstream energy markets, primarily in the United States. Within our High Pressure Solutions segment, we manufacture pumps and associated aftermarket products and services used in drilling, hydraulic fracturing and well service applications. Demand for upstream energy products has historically corresponded to the supply and demand dynamics related to oil and natural gas products, and has been influenced by oil and natural gas prices, the level and intensity of hydraulic fracturing activity rig count, drilling activity and other economic factors. These factors have caused the level of demand for certain of our High Pressure Solutions products to change at times (both positively and negatively) and we expect these trends to continue in the future. Restructuring and Other Business Transformation Initiatives We continue to implement business transformation initiatives. A key element of those business transformation initiatives was restructuring programs within our Industrial Technologies and Services, Precision and Science Technologies, Specialty Vehicle 32 Technologies and High Pressure Solutions segments as well as at the Corporate level. Restructuring charges, program related facility reorganization, relocation and other costs, and related capital expenditures were impacted most significantly. Subsequent to the acquisition of Ingersoll Rand Industrial, the Company announced a restructuring program (“2020 Plan”) to create efficiencies and synergies, reduce the number of facilities and optimize operating margin within the merged Company. For the year ended December 31, 2020, $92.9 million was charged to expense related to this restructuring program. We announced a restructuring program in the third quarter of 2018 that primarily involves workforce reductions and facility consolidations. For the year ended December 31, 2019, $17.1 million was charged to expense related to this restructuring program. Stock-Based Compensation Expense For the year ended December 31, 2020, we incurred stock-based compensation expense of approximately $51.3 million which was decreased by $0.5 million due to costs associated with employer taxes. The increase from 2019 was primarily due to increased awards as a result of the Ingersoll Rand Industrial acquisition as well as the $150 million equity grant to nearly 16,000 employees worldwide announced in the third quarter of 2020. See Note 17 “Stock-Based Compensation” to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for further discussion around our stock-based compensation expense. For the year ended December 31, 2019, we incurred stock-based compensation expense of approximately $19.2 million which was increased by $1.5 million due to costs associated with employer taxes. Outlook Industrial Technologies and Services The mission-critical nature of our Industrial Technologies and Services segment products across manufacturing processes drives a demand environment and outlook that are correlated with global and regional industrial production, capacity utilization and long-term GDP growth. Due to the uncertainty of current economic conditions associated with COVID-19, and its impact on end markets, our near-term visibility is limited. In the fourth quarter of 2020, we had $996.8 million of orders in our Industrial Technologies and Services segment, an increase of 154.8% over the fourth quarter of 2019. Approximately $601.9 million of these orders relate to the acquisition of Ingersoll Rand Industrial. Precision and Science Technologies Segment During the COVID-19 pandemic, the Precision and Science Technologies segment has seen increased demand for our vacuum pump and compressor solutions used in respirator and ventilator applications. Demand of other products and services have been curtailed as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and near-term visibility is limited. In the fourth quarter of 2020 we booked $220.3 million of orders in our Precision and Science Technologies segment, an increase of 202.6% over the fourth quarter of 2019. Approximately $127.4 million of these orders relate to the acquisition of Ingersoll Rand Industrial. Specialty Vehicle Technologies Segment During 2020, the Specialty Vehicle Technologies segment is seeing consistent demand in golf end markets along with record demand for consumer vehicle and aftermarket parts offerings. This has helped to offset demand pressure in the commercial end markets as the COVID-19 pandemic continues to impact the hospitality and resort industries. In the fourth quarter of 2020, we had $274.2 million of orders in our Specialty Vehicle Technologies segment. High Pressure Solutions Segment The demand and outlook for the majority of our High Pressure Solutions products and services are influenced heavily by the supply and demand dynamics related to oil and natural gas products, and have been influenced by oil and natural gas prices, the level and intensity of hydraulic fracturing activity, global land rig count, the number of drilled but uncompleted wells and other economic factors. The COVID-19 pandemic and related economic repercussions have negatively impacted the global demand for oil and natural gas. The ultimate duration of these conditions is unknown. In the fourth quarter of 2020, we booked $38.8 million of orders in our High Pressure Solutions segment, a decrease of 50.9% over the fourth quarter of 2019. 33 How We Assess the Performance of Our Business We manage operations through the four business segments described above. In addition to our consolidated GAAP financial measures, we review various non-GAAP financial measures, including Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted Net Income and Free Cash Flow. We believe Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted Net Income are helpful supplemental measures to assist us and investors in evaluating our operating results as they exclude certain items whose fluctuation from period to period do not necessarily correspond to changes in the operations of our business. Adjusted EBITDA represents net income (loss) before interest, taxes, depreciation, amortization and certain non-cash, non-recurring and other adjustment items. We believe that the adjustments applied in presenting Adjusted EBITDA are appropriate to provide additional information to investors about certain material non-cash items and about non-recurring items that we do not expect to continue at the same level in the future. Adjusted Net Income is defined as net income (loss) including interest, depreciation and amortization of non-acquisition related intangible assets and excluding other items used to calculate Adjusted EBITDA and further adjusted for the tax effect of these exclusions. We use Free Cash Flow to review the liquidity of our operations. We measure Free Cash Flow as cash flows from operating activities less capital expenditures. We believe Free Cash Flow is a useful supplemental financial measure for us and investors in assessing our ability to pursue business opportunities and investments and to service our debt. Free Cash Flow is not a measure of our liquidity under GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to cash flows from operating activities. Management and our board of directors regularly use these measures as tools in evaluating our operating and financial performance and in establishing discretionary annual compensation. Such measures are provided in addition to, and should not be considered to be a substitute for, or superior to, the comparable measures under GAAP. In addition, we believe that Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted Net Income and Free Cash Flow are frequently used by investors and other interested parties in the evaluation of issuers, many of which also present Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted Net Income and Free Cash Flow when reporting their results in an effort to facilitate an understanding of their operating and financial results and liquidity. Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted Net Income and Free Cash Flow should not be considered as alternatives to net income (loss) or any other performance measure derived in accordance with GAAP, or as alternatives to cash flow from operating activities as a measure of our liquidity. Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted Net Income and Free Cash Flow have limitations as analytical tools, and you should not consider such measures either in isolation or as substitutes for analyzing our results as reported under GAAP. Included in our discussion of our consolidated and segment results below are changes in revenues and Adjusted EBITDA on a Constant Currency basis. Constant Currency information compares results between periods as if exchange rates had remained constant period over period. We define Constant Currency revenues and Adjusted EBITDA as total revenues and Adjusted EBITDA excluding the impact of foreign exchange rate movements and use it to determine the Constant Currency revenue and Adjusted EBITDA growth on a year-over-year basis. Constant Currency revenues and Adjusted EBITDA are calculated by translating current period revenues and Adjusted EBITDA using corresponding prior period exchange rates. These results should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, results reported in accordance with GAAP. Results on a Constant Currency basis, as we present them, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies and are not a measure of performance presented in accordance with GAAP. For further information regarding these measures, see “Item 6. Selected Financial Data” and “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” below. Results of Operations Consolidated results should be read in conjunction with segment results and the Segment Information notes to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K, which provide more detailed discussions concerning certain components of our consolidated statements of operations. All intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated within the consolidated results. This section discusses our results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. For a discussion and analysis of the year ended December 31, 2019, compared to the same in 2018, please refer to the “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition” and “Results of Operations” sections included in Item 7 in Exhibit 99.2 of our Current Report on Form 8-K, filed with the SEC on June 5, 2020. 34 Consolidated Results of Operations for the Years Ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 (1) See “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” below for a reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP measure. Revenues Revenues for 2020 were $4,910.2 million, an increase of $2,458.3 million, or 100.3%, compared to $2,451.9 million in 2019. The increase in revenues was primarily due to acquisitions, including Ingersoll Rand Industrial of $2,934.9 million partially offset by lower volumes due to the effects of COVID-19 in our Industrial Technologies and Services segment of $260.5 million and in our High Pressure Solutions segment of $220.5 million. The percentage of consolidated revenues derived from aftermarket parts and services was 36.1% in 2020 compared to 37.8% in 2019. Gross Profit Gross profit in 2020 was $1,613.4 million, an increase of $701.7 million, or 77.0%, compared to $911.7 million in 2019, and as a percentage of revenues was 32.9% in 2020 and 37.2% in 2019. The increase in gross profit is primarily due to acquisitions, including Ingersoll Rand Industrial, partially offset by the runoff of the fair valuation adjustments related to purchase price allocation from inventory into cost of sales, lower volumes due to the effects of COVID-19 in our Industrial Technologies and 35 Services segment and our High Pressure Solutions segment. The decrease in gross profit as a percentage of revenues is primarily due to the runoff of the fair valuation adjustments related to purchase price allocation from inventory into cost of sales and changes in segment mix. Selling and Administrative Expenses Selling and administrative expenses were $894.8 million in 2020, an increase of $458.4 million, or 105.0%, compared to $436.4 million in 2019. Selling and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues increased to 18.2% in 2020 from 17.8% in 2019. This increase in selling and administrative expenses was primarily due to acquisitions, including Ingersoll Rand Industrial, increased professional and consultant fees and increased stock based compensation expense, partially offset by a decrease in advertising expenses and employee related expenses including salaries and wages, within our legacy business units. Amortization of Intangible Assets Amortization of intangible assets was $395.8 million in 2020, an increase of $271.5 million compared to $124.3 million in 2019. The increase was primarily due to the amortization of intangible assets related to the acquisition of Ingersoll Rand Industrial. Impairment of Intangible Assets Impairment of intangible assets was $19.9 million in 2020 due to the impairment of two tradenames in the Industrial Technologies and Services segment. See Note 8 “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for further details. Other Operating Expense, Net Other operating expense, net was $217.2 million in 2020, an increase of $141.5 million compared to $75.7 million in 2019. The increase was primarily due to higher restructuring charges of $75.8 million, higher acquisition related expenses of $43.5 million, higher foreign currency transaction losses, net of $12.8 million and lower shareholder litigation recoveries of $6.0 million. Interest Expense Interest expense was $111.1 million in 2020, an increase of $22.2 million compared to $88.9 million in 2019. The increase was primarily due to the addition of a $1,900 million term loan entered into in conjunction with the acquisition of Ingersoll Rand Industrial and the addition of a $400 million term loan entered into in the second quarter of 2020, partially offset by a decrease in the weighted-average interest rate. The weighted-average interest rate was approximately 3.5% in 2020 and 5.4% in 2019. Loss on Extinguishment of Debt Loss on extinguishment of debt was $2.0 million in 2020, which was related to the refinancing of the senior secured term loan facility denominated in U.S. Dollars and the senior secured term loan facility denominated in Euros. See Note 10 “Debt” to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for further details. Other Income, Net Other income, net, was $8.0 million in 2020, an increase of $3.3 million compared to $4.7 million in 2019. The increase in other income, net was primarily due to increased gains on postretirement plan investments of $10.5 million due to the additional defined benefit plans from the acquisition of Ingersoll Rand Industrial, partially offset by increased costs in the other components of net periodic benefit cost of $6.1 million due to the additional defined benefit plans from the acquisition of Ingersoll Rand Industrial. Provision for Income Taxes The provision for income taxes was $13.0 million resulting in a (67.0)% effective tax rate in 2020 compared to a provision of $31.8 million resulting in a 16.7% effective tax provision rate in 2019. The decrease in the tax provision and the change in the effective tax rate is primarily due to a reduction in the pre-tax book income in jurisdictions with lower effective tax rates combined with significant earnings in jurisdictions with higher tax rates. The reduction in pre-tax book income is mainly from the COVID-19 global pandemic, the transaction costs associated with the acquisition of Ingersoll Rand Industrial, and additional amortization and depreciation expense associated with the purchase price step up adjustments. 36 Net Income (Loss) Net loss was $32.4 million in 2020 compared to net income of $159.1 million in 2019. The decrease in net income was primarily due to higher selling and administrative expenses, higher amortization, increased other operating expenses, net, and higher interest expense, partially offset by higher gross profit on increased revenues. Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA increased $455.9 million to $1,017.6 million in 2020 compared to $561.7 million in 2019. Adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of revenues decreased 220 basis points to 20.7% in 2020 from 22.9% in 2019. The increase in Adjusted EBITDA was primarily due to acquisitions, including Ingersoll Rand Industrial of $691.1 million, partially offset by lower organic sales volume of $179.0 million and increased corporate costs associated with Ingersoll Rand Industrial. The decrease in Adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of revenues is primarily attributable to end market challenges in the upstream oil and gas market in our High Pressure Solutions segment. Adjusted Net Income Adjusted Net Income increased $269.7 million to $599.0 million in 2020 compared to $329.3 million in 2019. The increase was primarily due to increased Adjusted EBITDA, partially offset by an increased income tax provision, as adjusted and higher depreciation and interest expenses. 37 Non-GAAP Financial Measures Set forth below are reconciliations of net income (loss) to Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted Net Income and cash flows from operating activities to Free Cash Flow. For additional information regarding Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted Net Income, see “How We Assess the Performance of Our Business” above. (a) Depreciation expense excludes $8.0 million of depreciation of rental equipment for the year ended December 31, 2020. (b) Represents $377.4 million and $112.5 million of amortization of intangible assets arising from the acquisition of Ingersoll Rand Industrial and other acquisitions (customer relationships, technology, tradenames and backlog) and $18.4 million and $11.8 million of amortization of non-acquisition related intangible assets, in each case for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. (c) Restructuring and related business transformation costs consisted of the following. (d) Represents costs associated with successful and/or abandoned acquisitions, including third-party expenses, post-closure integration costs (including certain incentive and non-incentive cash compensation costs), and non-cash charges and credits arising from fair value purchase accounting adjustments. 38 (e) Represents stock-based compensation expense recognized for the year ended December 31, 2020 of $51.3 million decreased by $0.5 million due to costs associated with employer taxes. Represents stock-based compensation expense recognized for stock options outstanding for the year ended December 31, 2019 of $19.2 million increased by $1.5 million due to costs associated with employer taxes. (f) Represents losses on the extinguishment of a portion of the U.S. term loan and the amendment of the revolving credit facility. (g) Represents insurance recoveries of our shareholder litigation settlement in 2014. (h) Includes (i) effects of the amortization of prior service costs and amortization of losses in pension and other postemployment (“OPEB”) expense, (ii) certain legal and compliance costs and (iii) other miscellaneous adjustments. (i) Represents our income tax provision adjusted for the tax effect of pre-tax items excluded from Adjusted Net Income and the removal of applicable discrete tax items. The tax effect of pre-tax items excluded from Adjusted Net Income is computed using the statutory tax rate related to the jurisdiction that was impacted by the adjustment after taking into account the impact of permanent differences and valuation allowances. Discrete tax items include changes in tax laws or rates, changes in uncertain tax positions relating to prior years and changes in valuation allowances. All impacts relating to the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 have been included as an adjustment on the “Tax law change” line of the table below. The income tax provision, as adjusted for each of the periods presented below consists of the following. Segment Results As discussed above, we reorganized our segments during the three month period ended March 31, 2020 and no longer report under the three reportable segments of Industrial, Energy and Medical. Discussed below are the results of operations for the three reorganized reportable segments of Industrial Technologies and Services, Precision and Science Technologies and High Pressure Solutions as well as our new Specialty Vehicles Technologies reportable segment. Our Corporate operations (as described below) are not discussed separately as any results that had a significant impact on operating results are included in the consolidated results discussion above. We evaluate the performance of our segments based on Segment Revenues and Segment Adjusted EBITDA. Segment Adjusted EBITDA is indicative of operational performance and ongoing profitability. Our management closely monitors Segment Adjusted EBITDA to evaluate past performance and identify actions required to improve profitability. The segment measurements provided to, and evaluated by, the Chief Operating Decision Maker (“CODM”) are described in Note 22 “Segment Information” to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Included in our discussion of our segment results below are changes in Segment Revenues and Segment Adjusted EBITDA on a Constant Currency basis. Constant Currency information compares results between periods as if exchange rates had remained constant period over period. We define Constant Currency as changes in Segment Revenues and Segment Adjusted EBITDA excluding the impact of foreign exchange rate movements. We use these measures to determine the Constant Currency Segment Revenues and Segment Adjusted EBITDA growth on a year-on-year basis. Constant Currency Segment Revenues and Segment Adjusted EBITDA are calculated by translating current period Segment Revenues and Segment Adjusted EBITDA using prior period exchange rates. These results should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for, results reported in accordance with GAAP. Results on a constant currency basis, as we present them, may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies and are not a measure of performance presented in accordance with GAAP. Segment Results for Years Ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 The following tables display Segment Revenues, Segment Adjusted EBITDA and Segment Adjusted EBITDA Margin (Segment Adjusted EBITDA as a percentage of Segment Revenues) for each of our Segments and illustrates, on a percentage basis, the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on Segment Revenues and Segment Adjusted EBITDA growth. 39 Industrial Technologies and Services Segment Result s 2020 vs. 2019 Segment Revenues for 2020 were $3,248.2 million, an increase of $1,547.3 million, or 91.0%, compared to $1,700.9 million in 2019. The increase in Segment Revenues was primarily due to acquisitions, including Ingersoll Rand Industrial, of $1,787.4 million or 105.1% and improved pricing of $21.2 million or 1.2%, partially offset by lower volume of $260.5 million or 15.3%. The percentage of Segment Revenues derived from aftermarket parts and service was 40.2% in 2020 compared to 32.3% in 2019. Segment Adjusted EBITDA in 2020 was $759.8 million, an increase of $368.4 million, or 94.1%, from $391.4 million in 2019. Segment Adjusted EBITDA Margin increased 40 bps to 23.4% from 23.0% in 2019. The increase in Segment Adjusted EBITDA was primarily due to acquisitions, including Ingersoll Rand Industrial, of $432.4 million or 110.5%, lower selling and administrative expenses of $35.4 million or 9.0%, and improved pricing of $21.2 million or 5.4%, partially offset by lower organic sales volumes of $104.0 million or 26.6% and unfavorable margin mix of $19.1 million or 4.9%. Precision and Science Technologies Segment Results 2020 vs. 2019 Segment Revenues for 2020 were $725.0 million, an increase of $408.4 million, or 129.0%, compared to $316.6 million in 2019. The increase in Segment Revenues was primarily due to acquisitions, including Ingersoll Rand Industrial, of $406.1 million or 128.3% and improved pricing of $4.7 million or 1.5%, partially offset by lower volume of $4.6 million or 1.5%. The percentage of Segment Revenues derived from aftermarket parts and service was 14.6% in 2020 compared to 4.2% in 2019. Segment Adjusted EBITDA in 2020 was $220.2 million, an increase of $124.4 million, or 129.9%, from $95.8 million in 2019. Segment Adjusted EBITDA Margin increased 10 bps to 30.4% from 30.3% in 2019. The increase in Segment Adjusted EBITDA was due primarily to acquisitions, including Ingersoll Rand Industrial, of $120.1 million or 125.4%, improved pricing of $4.7 million or 4.9% and lower selling and administrative expenses of $2.1 million or 2.2%, partially offset by lower volume of $1.8 million or 1.9%. Specialty Vehicle Technologies Segment Results The Specialty Vehicle Technologies segment is entirely composed of businesses acquired as part of the Ingersoll Rand Industrial transaction. Therefore, comparative prior period information was not part of our consolidated results. Segment Revenues for 2020 were $741.4 million. The percentage of Segment Revenues derived from aftermarket parts and service was 26.0% in 2020. Segment Adjusted EBITDA in 2020 was $138.6 million. Segment Adjusted EBITDA Margin was 18.7% in 2020. 40 High Pressure Solutions Segment Results 2020 vs. 2019 Segment Revenues for 2020 were $195.6 million, a decrease of $238.8 million, or 55.0%, compared to $434.4 million in 2019. The decrease in Segment Revenues was primarily due to lower volume of $220.5 million or 50.8% and lower pricing $17.3 million or 4.0%. The percentage of Segment Revenues derived from aftermarket parts and service was 86.7% in 2020 compared to 83.9% in 2019. Segment Adjusted EBITDA in 2020 was $12.1 million, a decrease of $104.9 million, or 89.7%, from $117.0 million in 2019. Segment Adjusted EBITDA Margin decreased 2,070 bps to 6.2% from 26.9% in 2019. The decrease in Segment Adjusted EBITDA was due primarily to lower volume of $73.2 million or 62.6%, lower pricing of $17.3 million or 14.8%, unfavorable margin mix of $10.6 million or 9.1% and higher selling and administrative expenses of $5.0 million or 4.3%. Unaudited Quarterly Results of Operations (1) See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations – Factors Affecting the Comparability of our Results of Operations.” 41 (2) Set forth below are the reconciliations of Net Income to Adjusted EBITDA (a) Restructuring and related business transformation costs consist of (i) restructuring charges, (ii) severance, sign-on, relocation and executive search costs, (iii) facility reorganization, relocation and other costs, (iv) information technology infrastructure transformation, (v) gains and losses on asset disposals, (vi) consultant and other advisor fees and (vii) other miscellaneous costs. (b) Represents costs associated with successful and/or abandoned acquisitions, including third-party expenses, post-closure integration costs (including certain incentive and non-incentive cash compensation costs) and non-cash charges and credits arising from fair value purchase accounting adjustments. (c) Represents estimated environmental remediation costs and losses related to a former production facility. (d) Represents third party expenses to comply with the requirements of Sarbanes-Oxley and the accelerated adoption of the new accounting standard (ASC 842 – Leases ) in the first quarter of 2019, one year ahead of the required adoption dates for a private company. (e) Represents stock-based compensation expense recognized for stock options outstanding for the year ended December 31, 2020 of $51.3 million, decreased by $0.5 million due to costs associated with employer taxes. Represents stock-based compensation expense recognized for the year ended December 31, 2019 of $19.2 million, increased by $1.5 million due to costs associated with employer taxes. (f) Represents losses on extinguishment of portions of the U.S. Term Loan, the amendment of the revolving credit facility and losses reclassified from AOCI into income related to the amendment of the interest rate swaps in conjunction with the debt repayment. (g) Represents insurance recoveries of the Company’s shareholder litigation settlement in 2014. (h) Includes (i) non-cash impact of net LIFO reserve adjustments, (ii) effects of amortization of prior service costs and amortization of losses in pension and other postemployment ( “ OPEB ” ) expense, (iii) certain legal and compliance costs and (iv) other miscellaneous adjustments. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our investment resources include cash on hand, cash generated from operations and borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility. We also have the ability to seek additional secured and unsecured borrowings, subject to Credit Agreement restrictions. For a description of our material indebtedness, see Note 10 “Debt” to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. 42 As of December 31, 2020, we had no outstanding borrowings, $101.9 million of outstanding letters of credit under the New Revolving Credit Facility and unused availability of $998.1 million. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019 we were in compliance with all of our debt covenants and no event of default had occurred or was ongoing. Liquidity A substantial portion of our liquidity needs arise from debt service requirements, and from the ongoing cost of operations, working capital and capital expenditures. We can increase the borrowing availability under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities by up to $1,600.0 million in the form of additional commitments under the Revolving Credit Facility and/or incremental term loans plus an additional amount so long as we do not exceed a specified senior secured leverage ratio. We can incur additional secured indebtedness under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities if certain specified conditions are met under the credit agreement governing the Senior Secured Credit Facilities. Our liquidity requirements are significant primarily due to debt service requirements. See Note 10 “Debt” to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for further details. Our principal sources of liquidity have been existing cash and cash equivalents, cash generated from operations and borrowings under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities and, prior to its termination, the Receivables Financing Agreement. Our principal uses of cash will be to provide working capital, meet debt service requirements, fund capital expenditures and finance strategic plans, including possible acquisitions. We may also seek to finance capital expenditures under capital leases or other debt arrangements that provide liquidity or favorable borrowing terms. We continue to consider acquisition opportunities, but the size and timing of any future acquisitions and the related potential capital requirements cannot be predicted. In the event that suitable businesses are available for acquisition upon acceptable terms, we may obtain all or a portion of the necessary financing through the incurrence of additional long-term borrowings. We may from time to time, seek to repay loans that we have borrowed, including the borrowings under the Senior Secured Credit Facilities. Based on our current level of operations and available cash, we believe our cash flow from operations, together with availability under the Revolving Credit Facility, will provide sufficient liquidity to fund our current obligations, projected working capital requirements, debt service requirements and capital spending requirements for the foreseeable future. Our business may not generate sufficient cash flows from operations or future borrowings may not be available to us under our Revolving Credit Facility in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness, or to fund our other liquidity needs. Our ability to do so depends on, among other factors, prevailing economic conditions, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, upon the occurrence of certain events, such as a change in control, we could be required to repay or refinance our indebtedness. We may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness, including the Senior Secured Credit Facilities, on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Any future acquisitions, joint ventures, or other similar transactions may require additional capital and there can be no assurance that any such capital will be available to us on acceptable terms or at all. A substantial portion of our cash is in jurisdictions outside the United States. We do not assert ASC 740-30 (formerly APB 23) indefinite reinvestment of our historical non-U.S. earnings or future non-U.S. earnings. The Company records a deferred foreign tax liability to cover all estimated withholding, state income tax and foreign income tax associated with repatriating all non-U.S. earnings back to the United States. Our deferred income tax liability as of December 31, 2020 is $32.5 million which consists mainly of withholding taxes. 43 Working Capital Net working capital increased $1,394.2 million to $2,363.5 million as of December 31, 2020 from $969.3 million as of December 31, 2019. Operating working capital increased $515.0 million to $1,118.0 million as of December 31, 2020 from $603.0 million as of December 31, 2019. Operating working capital as of December 31, 2020 was 22.8% of 2020 revenues as compared to 24.6% as of December 31, 2019 as a percentage of 2019 revenues. The increase in operating working capital was primarily due to higher accounts receivable, higher inventories and higher contract assets, partially offset by higher accounts payable and higher contract liabilities. The increase in accounts receivable was primarily due to the acquisition of Ingersoll Rand Industrial, which accounts for $599.9 million of accounts receivable and $18.2 million of contract assets as of December 31, 2020. The increase in inventory was primarily attributable to the acquisition of Ingersoll Rand Industrial of which $447.4 million is included in the December 31, 2020 balance. The increase in accounts payable was primarily due to the acquisition of Ingersoll Rand Industrial of which $410.8 million is included in the December 31, 2020 balance and the timing of vendor cash disbursements. The increase in contract liabilities was due to the acquisition of Ingersoll Rand Industrial of which $113.9 million is included in the December 31, 2020 balance. Cash Flows The following table reflects the major categories of cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. (1) See “Non-GAAP Financial Measures” for a reconciliation to the most directly comparable GAAP measure. Operating activities Cash provided by operating activities increased $571.0 million to $914.3 million in 2020 from $343.3 million in 2019, due to higher net income adjusted for non-cash items and from cash generated from operating working capital. Operating working capital generated cash of $263.3 million in 2020 compared to generating cash of $38.7 million in 2019. Changes in account receivables generated cash of $100.3 million in 2020 compared to generating cash of $54.7 million in 2019. Changes in contract assets used cash of $12.6 million in 2020 compared to using cash of $9.1 million in 2019. Changes in inventory generated cash of $170.8 million in 2020 compared to generating cash of $18.7 million in 2019. Changes in accounts payable used cash of $13.3 million in 2020 compared to using cash of $9.2 million in 2019. Changes in contract liabilities generated cash of $18.1 million in 2020 compared to using cash of $16.4 million in 2019. 44 Investing activities Cash flows used by investing activities included capital expenditures of $48.7 million (1.0% of consolidated revenues) and $43.2 million (1.8% of consolidated revenues) in 2020 and 2019, respectively. We expect capital expenditures will be in the range of 1.5% to 2.0% of consolidated revenues in 2021. Cash acquired (paid) in business combinations was $9.0 million in 2020 and $(12.0) million in 2019. Net proceeds from the disposal of property, plant and equipment were $1.8 million and $0.9 million in 2020 and 2019, respectively. Financing activities Cash provided by financing activities of $328.7 million in 2020 is primarily due to proceeds from long-term debt of $1,980.1 million, offset by repayments of long term debt of $1,619.1 million and payments of debt issuance costs of $47.8 million. Also included are proceeds from stock option exercises of $22.7 million and a net usage of cash of $3.0 million related to the purchase and sale of noncontrolling interests of our India subsidiary. See Note 12 “Stockholders' Equity and Noncontrolling Interests” to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for further details. Cash used in financing activities of $11.5 million in 2019 reflects repayments of long-term debt of $32.8 million, purchases of treasury stock of $18.6 million, payments of $2.3 million for contingent consideration and payment of $0.5 million of debt issuance costs, partially offset by proceeds from stock option exercises of $42.7 million. Free cash flow Free cash flow increased $565.5 million to $865.6 million in 2020 from $300.1 million in 2019 primarily due to increased cash provided by operating activities, mainly driven by the acquisition of Ingersoll Rand Industrial. Off-Balance Sheet We have no off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are materially likely to have a current or future material effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our future minimum payments as of December 31, 2020 for all contractual obligations for years subsequent to the year ended December 31, 2020. (1) As of February 28, 2020, we entered into an additional $1,900.0 million term loan in connection with the acquisition of Ingersoll Rand Industrial and as of June 29, 2020, we entered into a $400.0 million term loan. See Note 10 “Debt” to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for further details. (2) Estimated interest payments for long-term debt were calculated as follows: for fixed-rate debt and term debt, interest was calculated based on applicable rates and payment dates; for variable-rate debt and/or non-term debt, interest rates and payment dates were estimated based on management’s determination of the most likely scenarios for each relevant debt instrument. The increase of estimated interest payments since our previously disclosed contractual obligations on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019 was due to the $1,900.0 million term loan and $400.0 million term loan as discussed above, partially offset by lower interest rate. (3) Purchase obligations consist primarily of agreements to purchase inventory or services made in the normal course of business to meet operational requirements. The purchase obligation amounts do not represent the entire anticipated purchases in the future, but represent only those items for which we are contractually obligated as of December 31, 2020. For this reason, these amounts will not provide a complete and reliable indicator of our expected future cash outflows. The increase in purchase obligations since our 45 previously disclosed contractual obligations on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019 was due to the acquisition of Ingersoll Rand Industrial. Total pension and other postretirement benefit liabilities recognized on our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2020 were $287.0 million. The total pension and other postretirement benefit liabilities are included in our consolidated balance sheet line items “Accrued liabilities” and “Pensions and other postretirement benefits.” Because these liabilities are impacted by, among other items, plan funding levels, changes in plan demographics and assumptions and investment return on plan assets, these liabilities do not represent expected liquidity needs. Accordingly, we did not include these liabilities in the “Contractual Obligations” table above. We fund our U.S. qualified pension plans in accordance with the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 regulations for the minimum annual required contribution and Internal Revenue Service regulations for the maximum annual allowable tax deduction. We are committed to making the required minimum contributions and expect to contribute a total of approximately $0.1 million to our U.S. qualified pension plans during 2021. Furthermore, we expect to contribute a total of approximately $3.3 million to our postretirement life insurance benefit plans during 2021. Future contributions are dependent upon various factors including the performance of the plan assets, benefit payment experience and changes, if any, to current funding requirements. Therefore, no amounts were included in the “Contractual Obligations” table related to expected plan contributions. We generally expect to fund all future contributions to our plans with cash flows from operating activities. Our non-U.S. pension plans are funded in accordance with local laws and income tax regulations. We expect to contribute a total of approximately $8.2 million to our non-U.S. qualified pension plans during 2021. No amounts have been included in the “Contractual Obligations” table related to these plans due to the same reasons indicated above. Disclosure of amounts in the “Contractual Obligations” table regarding expected benefit payments in future years for our pension plans and other postretirement benefit plans cannot be properly reflected due to the ongoing nature of the obligations of these plans. We currently anticipate the annual benefit payments for the U.S. plans to be in the range of approximately $29.7 million to $42.1 million for the next several years, and the annual benefit payments for the non-U.S. plans to be in the range of approximately $13.1 million to $16.8 million for the next several years. Contingencies We are a party to various legal proceedings, lawsuits and administrative actions, which are of an ordinary or routine nature for a company of our size and in our sector. We believe that such proceedings, lawsuits and administrative actions will not materially adversely affect our operations, financial condition, liquidity or competitive position. We have accrued liabilities and other liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet, including a total litigation reserve of $131.4 million as of December 31, 2020 with respect to potential liability arising from our asbestos-related litigation. Other than our asbestos-related litigation reserves, we only have de minimis accrued liabilities and other liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet with respect to other legal proceedings, lawsuits and administrative actions. A more detailed discussion of certain of these proceedings, lawsuits and administrative actions is set forth in “Item 3. Legal Proceedings.” Critical Accounting Policies Accounting policies discussed in this section are those that we consider to be the most critical to an understanding of our financial statements because they involve significant judgments and uncertainties. Certain of these policies include estimates and assumptions. These estimates reflect our best judgment about current, and for some estimates, future economic and market conditions and their effect based on information available as of the date of these financial statements. If these conditions change from those expected, it is reasonably possible that the judgments and estimates described below could change, which may result in future impairments of goodwill, intangibles and long-lived assets, increases in reserves for contingencies, establishment of valuation allowances on deferred tax assets and increase in tax liabilities, among other effects. Also see Note 1 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K, which discusses the significant accounting policies that we have selected from acceptable alternatives. Business Combinations We apply the acquisition method of accounting with respect to the identifiable assets and liabilities of a business combination and record the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at their estimated fair values as of the acquisition date. The excess of the cost of the acquired business and the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed is recognized as goodwill. Estimates of fair value represent management’s best estimate of assumptions and about future events and uncertainties, including 46 significant judgments related to future cash flows, discount rates, competitive trends, margin and revenue growth assumptions including royalty rates and customer attrition rates, market comparables and others. Inputs used are generally obtained from historical data supplemented by current and anticipated market conditions and growth rates. Significant judgment is required in estimating the fair value of identifiable intangible assets and in assigning their respective useful lives. The fair value estimates are based on historical information and on future expectations and assumptions deemed reasonable by management, but which are inherently uncertain. See Note 3 “Business Combinations” to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for further information regarding the fair value determination of each of the classes of identifiable intangible assets. Determining the useful life of an intangible asset also requires judgment. Certain intangibles are expected to have indefinite lives while certain other identifiable intangible assets have determinable lives. The useful lives of identifiable intangibles with determinable useful lives is based on a variety of factors, including but not limited to, the competitive environment, product cycles, order life cycles, historical customer attrition rates, market share, operating plans and the macroeconomic environment. The costs of determinable-lived intangible assets are amortized to expense over the estimated useful life. Impairment of Goodwill and Other Identified Intangible Assets We test goodwill for impairment annually in the fourth quarter of each year using data as of October 1 of that year and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Upon adoption of ASU 2019-04, the impairment test consists of comparing the fair value of the reporting unit to the carrying value of the reporting unit. An impairment charge is recognized for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value; provided, the loss recognized cannot exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to the reporting unit. If applicable, we consider income tax effects from any tax deductible goodwill on the carrying amount of the reporting unit when measuring the goodwill impairment loss. We determined fair values for all of the reporting units using a combination of the income and market multiples approaches which are weighted 75% and 25%, respectively. Under the income approach, fair value is determined based on the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at an appropriate risk-adjusted rate. We use our internal forecasts to estimate future cash flows and include an estimate of long-term future growth rates based on our most recent views of the long-term outlook for each business. Actual results may differ from those assumed in our forecasts. We derive our discount rates using a capital asset pricing model and analyzing published rates for industries relevant to our reporting units to estimate the cost of equity financing. We use discount rates that are commensurate with the risks and uncertainty inherent in the respective businesses and in our internally developed forecasts. Discount rates used in our 2020 reporting unit valuations ranged from 8.5% to 9.5%. Additionally, we assumed 3.0% terminal growth rates for all reporting units, except a single reporting unit in which we determined it most appropriate to assume an 2.0% terminal growth rate due to it being closely aligned to the GDP percentage growth rate. Under the market multiples approach, fair value is determined based on multiples derived from the stock prices of publicly traded guideline companies to develop a business enterprise value (“BEV”) for our reporting units. The application of the market multiples method entails the development of book value multiples based on the market value of the guideline companies. The multiples are developed by first calculating the market value of equity of the guideline companies and then adjusting these multiples for cash and debt to arrive at a BEV multiple. Identifying appropriate guideline companies and computing appropriate market multiples is subjective. We considered various public companies that had reasonably similar qualitative factors as our reporting units while also considering quantitative factors such as revenue growth, profitability and total assets. The excess of the estimated fair value over carrying value (expressed as a percentage of carrying value) for two of our reporting units were between 4% and 6%, primarily due to the timing of the acquisition of Ingersoll Rand Industrial relative to our annual impairment test. For all other reporting units, this excess was a minimum of 25%. With each reporting unit’s fair value in excess of its carrying value, no goodwill impairment was recorded. We annually test intangible assets with indefinite lives for impairment utilizing a discounted cash flow valuation referred to as the relief from royalty method. We estimated forecasted revenues for a period of five years with discount rates ranging from 9.0% to 10.0%, terminal growth rates of 2.0 % to 3.0%, and royalty rates ranging from 1.0% to 4.0%. As a result of this test, the Company recognized an impairment in 2020 of $19.9 million to reduce the carrying value of two tradenames in the Industrial Technologies and Services segment. We review identified intangible assets with defined useful lives and subject to amortization for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the related carrying amounts may not be recoverable. Determining whether an impairment 47 loss occurred requires comparing the carrying amount to the sum of undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. Also see Note 8 “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Income Taxes Our annual tax rate is based on our income, statutory tax rates and tax planning opportunities available to us in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. Tax laws are complex and subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and respective governmental taxing authorities. Significant judgment is required in determining our tax expense and in evaluating our tax positions, including evaluating uncertainties. We review our tax positions quarterly and adjust the balances as new information becomes available. On December 22, 2017, the Tax Act was enacted into law and the new legislation contains several key tax provisions that affected the Company, including a one-time mandatory transition tax on accumulated foreign earnings and a reduction of the corporate income tax rate to 21% effective January 1, 2018, among others. The Company was required to recognize the effect of the Tax Act in the period of enactment. This included the determination of the transition tax, remeasurement of the Company’s U.S. deferred tax assets and liabilities as well as the reassessment of the net realizability of the Company’s deferred tax assets and liabilities. In December 2017, the SEC staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118, Income Tax Accounting Implications of the Tax Cuts and Job Act (“SAB 118”), which allowed the Company to record provisional amounts during a measurement period not to extend more than one year subsequent to the enactment date. As a result, the Company previously provided a provisional estimate of the effect of the Tax Act in its financial statements for 2017 and through the first nine months of 2018. In the fourth quarter of 2018, the Company completed its accounting for all of the enactment-date income tax effects of the Tax Act and increased the total benefit taken in 2017 of $95.3 million to $96.5 million. Due to the Tax Act, the total U.S. deferred changed from a tax benefit of $89.6 million in 2017 to $74.5 million in 2018, with a 2018 measurement-period adjustment of $15.1 million. The ASC 740-30 (formally APB 23) liability reduction, relating to the permanently reinvested earnings in foreign subsidiaries assertion, changed from a tax benefit of $69.0 million in 2017 to $72.5 million in 2018, with a 2018 measurement-period adjustment of $3.5 million due to the policy change that occurred in 2018. The provisional one-time transition tax of $63.3 million in 2017 decreased to $50.5 million in 2018, with a 2018 measurement-period adjustment of $12.8 million. The total $1.2 million benefit had a (0.3)% impact to the overall rate in 2018. The Tax Act creates a new requirement that certain income (i.e., Global intangible low taxed income (“GILTI”)) earned by controlled foreign corporations (“CFC”) must be included currently in the gross income of the CFCs’ U.S. shareholder. GILTI is the excess of the shareholder’s “net CFC tested income” over the net deemed tangible income return, which is currently defined as the excess of (1) 10% of the aggregate of the U.S. shareholder’s pro rata share of the qualified business asset investment of each CFC with respect to which it is a U.S. shareholder over (2) the amount of certain interest expense taken into account in the determination of net CFC-tested income. Under U.S. GAAP, the Company is allowed to make an accounting policy choice of either (1) treating taxes due on future U.S. inclusions in taxable income related to GILTI as a current-period expense when incurred (the “period cost method”) or (2) factoring such amounts into a company’s measurement of its deferred taxes (the “deferred method”). The Company has determined that it will follow the period cost method (option 1 above) going forward. The tax provision for the year ended December 31, 2020 reflects this decision. All of the additional calculations and rule changes found in the Tax Act have been considered in the tax provision for the year ended December 31, 2020. The Company recorded a tax expense of $5.3 million in 2020 for the GILTI provisions of the Tax Act that were effective for the first time during 2018. Deferred income tax assets represent amounts available to reduce income taxes payable on taxable income in future years. Such assets arise because of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities, as well as from net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. We evaluate the recoverability of these future tax deductions and credits by assessing the adequacy of future expected taxable income from all sources, including reversal of taxable temporary differences, forecasted operating earnings and available tax planning strategies. These sources of income rely heavily on estimates. To the extent we do not consider it more likely than not that a deferred tax asset will be recovered, a valuation allowance is established. Amounts recorded for deferred tax assets related to tax attribute carryforwards, net of valuation allowances, were $40.7 million and $12.7 million as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, with the increase related to the Ingersoll Rand Industrial acquisition. 48 Loss Contingencies Loss contingencies are uncertain and unresolved matters that arise in the ordinary course of business and result from events or actions by others that have the potential to result in a future loss. Such contingencies include, but are not limited to, asbestos and silica related litigation, environmental obligations, litigation, regulatory proceedings, product quality and losses resulting from other events and developments. When a loss is considered probable and reasonably estimable, we record a liability in the amount of our best estimate for the ultimate loss. When there appears to be a range of possible costs with equal likelihood, liabilities are based on the low-end of such range. However, the likelihood of a loss with respect to a particular contingency is often difficult to predict and determining a meaningful estimate of the loss or a range of loss may not be practicable based on the information available and the potential effect of future events and decisions by third parties that will determine the ultimate resolution of the contingency. In particular, as it relates to estimating asbestos and silica contingencies, there are a number of key variables and assumptions including the number and type of new claims to be filed each year, the resolution or outcome of these claims, the average cost of resolution of each new claim, the amount of insurance available, allocation methodologies, the contractual terms with each insurer with whom we have reached settlements, the resolution of coverage issues with other excess insurance carriers with whom we have not yet achieved settlements and the solvency risk with respect to our insurance carriers. Moreover, it is not uncommon for such matters to be resolved over many years, during which time relevant developments and new information must be continuously evaluated to determine both the likelihood of potential loss and whether it is possible to reasonably estimate a range of possible loss. When a loss is probable but a reasonable estimate cannot be made, disclosure is provided. Disclosure also is provided when it is reasonably possible that a loss will be incurred or when it is reasonably possible that the amount of a loss will exceed the recorded provision. We regularly review all contingencies to determine whether the likelihood of loss has changed and to assess whether a reasonable estimate of the loss or range of loss can be made. As discussed above, development of a meaningful estimate of loss or a range of potential loss is complex when the outcome is directly dependent on negotiations with or decisions by third parties, such as regulatory agencies, the court system and other interested parties. Such factors bear directly on whether it is possible to reasonably estimate a range of potential loss and boundaries of high and low. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 “New Accounting Standards” to our audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this Form 10-K for a discussion of recent accounting standards.