********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

We face many risks. If any of the events or circumstances described below actually occur, we and our businesses, financial condition or results of operations could suffer, and the trading price of our debt or equity securities could decline. Our current and potential investors should consider the following risks and the information contained under the heading "Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" before deciding to invest in our securities. BUSINESS RISKS Failure to execute our strategic growth plan may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. As part of our strategic growth plan, including Project Matterhorn, we expect to invest in our existing businesses, including records and information management storage and services businesses in our higher-growth markets, data centers, ALM business and other complementary businesses, and in new businesses, business strategies, products, services, technologies and geographies. These initiatives may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including: • our inability to maintain relationships with key customers and suppliers or to execute on our plan to incorporate the digitization of our customers’ records and new digital information technologies into our offerings; • failure to achieve satisfactory returns on new product offerings, acquired companies, joint ventures, growth initiatives, or other investments, particularly in markets where we do not currently operate or have a substantial presence; • our inability to identify suitable companies to acquire, invest in or partner with; • our inability to complete acquisitions or investments on satisfactory terms; • our inability to structure acquisitions or investments in a manner that complies with our debt covenants and is consistent with our leverage ratio goals; • challenges in managing costs to offset the impact of inflationary pressure; • increased demands on our management, operating systems, internal controls and financial and physical resources and, if necessary, our inability to successfully expand our infrastructure; • incurring additional debt necessary to acquire suitable companies or make other growth investments if we are unable to pay the purchase price or make the investment out of working capital or the issuance of our common stock or other equity securities; • our inability to manage the budgeting, forecasting and other process control issues presented by future growth, particularly with respect to new lines of business; • insufficient revenues to offset expenses and liabilities associated with new investments; and • our inability to attract, develop and retain skilled employees to lead and support our strategic growth plan, particularly in new businesses, technologies, products or offerings outside our core competencies. Our new ventures are inherently risky and we can provide no assurance that such strategies and offerings will be successful in achieving the desired returns within a reasonable timeframe, if at all, and that they will not adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results. If stored records and tapes become less active our service revenue growth and profits from related services may decline. Our Records Management and Data Management service revenue growth is being negatively impacted by declining activity rates as stored records and tapes are becoming less active and more archival. The amount of information available to customers digitally or in their own information systems has been steadily increasing in recent years, and we believe this trend will continue. As a result, our customers are less likely than they have been in the past to retrieve records and rotate tapes, thereby reducing their activity levels. At the same time, many of our costs related to records and tape related services remain relatively fixed. In addition, our reputation for providing secure information storage is critical to our success, and actions to manage cost structure, such as outsourcing certain transportation, security or other functions, could negatively impact our reputation and adversely affect our business, and, if we are unable to appropriately align our cost structure with decreased levels of service activity, our operating results could be adversely affected. Part I Our customers may shift from paper and tape storage to alternative technologies that may shift our revenue mix away from storage revenue. We derive substantial revenues from rental fees for the storage of physical records and computer backup media and from storage related services. Storage volume and/or demand for our traditional storage related services may decline as our customers adopt alternative storage technologies or as retention requirements evolve, which may require significantly less space than traditional physical records and tape storage. While volumes in our Global RIM Business segment were relatively steady in 2022 and we expect them to remain relatively consistent in the near term, we can provide no assurance that our customers will continue to store most or a portion of their records as paper documents or as tapes, or that the paper documents or tapes they do store with us will require our storage related services at the same levels as they have in the past. A significant shift by our customers to storage of data through non-paper or non-tape-based technologies, whether now existing or developed in the future, could adversely affect our businesses. In addition, the digitization of records may shift our revenue mix from the more predictable storage revenue to service revenue, which is inherently more volatile. We and our customers are subject to laws and governmental regulations relating to data privacy and cybersecurity and our customers’ demands in this area are increasing. This may cause us to incur significant expenses and non-compliance with such regulations and demands could harm our business. We and our customers are subject to numerous laws and regulations relating to data privacy and cybersecurity. These regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. In addition, a growing number of regulatory bodies have adopted data breach notification requirements and increased enforcement of regulations regarding the use, access, accuracy and security of personal information. Finally, as a result of the continued emphasis on information security and instances in which personal information has been compromised, our customers are requesting that we take increasingly sophisticated measures to enhance security and comply with data privacy regulations, and that we assume higher liability under our contracts. We have an established privacy compliance framework and devote substantial resources, and may in the future have to devote significant additional resources, to facilitate compliance with global laws and regulations, our customers’ data privacy and security demands, and to investigate, defend or remedy actual or alleged violations or breaches. Any failure by us to comply with, or remedy any violations or breaches of, laws and regulations or customer requirements could negatively impact our operations, result in the imposition of fines and penalties, contractual liability and litigation, significant costs and expenses and reputational harm. Attacks on our internal IT systems could damage our reputation, cause us to lose revenues, and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our reputation for providing secure information storage to customers is critical to the success of our business. Our reputation or brand, and specifically, the trust our customers place in us, could be negatively impacted in the event of perceived or actual failures by us to store information securely. Although we seek to prevent and detect attempts by unauthorized users to gain access to our IT systems, and incur significant costs to do so, our IT and network infrastructure has in the past been and may in the future be vulnerable to attacks by hackers, including state-sponsored organizations with significant financial and technological resources, breaches due to employee error, fraud or malice or other disruptions (including, but not limited to, computer viruses and other malware, denial of service, and ransomware), which may involve a privacy breach requiring us to notify regulators, clients or employees and enlist identity theft protection. Moreover, until we have migrated businesses we acquire onto our IT systems or ensured compliance with our information technology security standards, we have in the past and may in the future face additional risks because of the continued use of predecessor IT systems. We have outsourced, and expect to continue to outsource, certain support services, including cloud storage systems and cloud computing services, to third parties, which has in the past and may in the future subject our IT and other sensitive information to additional risk. In addition, the continuation of remote work arrangements following the COVID-19 pandemic has increased and could further increase our cybersecurity risks. A successful breach of the security of our IT systems could lead to theft or misuse of our customers’ proprietary or confidential information or our employees’ personal information and result in third party claims against us, regulatory penalties, and reputational harm. Although we maintain insurance coverage for various cybersecurity risks, there is no guarantee that all costs or losses incurred will be fully insured. Damage to our reputation could make us less competitive, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses could negatively impact our balance sheet and results of operations. Strategic acquisitions are an important element of our growth strategy and the success of any acquisition we make depends in part on our ability to integrate the acquired business and realize anticipated synergies. The process of integrating acquired businesses, particularly in new markets or for new offerings, may involve unforeseen difficulties and may require a disproportionate amount of our management’s attention and our financial and other resources. Part I For example, the success of our significant acquisitions depends, in large part, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits, including cost savings or revenue acceleration from combining the acquired businesses with ours. To realize these anticipated benefits, we must be able to successfully integrate our business and the acquired businesses, and this integration is complex and time-consuming. We may encounter challenges in the integration process including the following: • challenges and difficulties associated with managing our larger, more complex, company; • conforming standards, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation and benefits structures between the two businesses; • consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures; • coordinating geographically dispersed organizations; • retaining critical acquired talent; • potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen expenses or delays associated with an acquisition; and • our ability to deliver on our strategy going forward. Further, our acquisitions subject us to liabilities (including tax liabilities) that may exist at an acquired company, some of which may be unknown. Although we and our advisors conduct due diligence on the businesses we acquire, there can be no guarantee that we are aware of all liabilities of an acquired company. These liabilities, and any additional risks and uncertainties related to an acquired company not known to us or that we may deem immaterial or unlikely to occur at the time of the acquisition, could negatively impact our future business, financial condition and results of operations. We can give no assurance that we will ultimately be able to effectively integrate and manage the operations of any acquired business or realize anticipated synergies. The failure to successfully integrate the cultures, operating systems, procedures and information technologies of an acquired business could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our future growth depends in part upon our ability to continue to effectively manage and execute on revenue management. Over the past several years, our organic revenue growth has been positively impacted by our ability to effectively introduce, expand and monitor revenue management. If we are not able to continue and effectively manage pricing, our results of operations could be adversely affected and we may not be able to execute on our strategic growth plan. Our customer contracts may not always limit our liability and may sometimes contain terms that could lead to disputes in contract interpretation. Our customer contracts typically contain standardized provisions limiting our liability regarding the services we perform and the loss or destruction of, or damage to, records, information, or other items stored with us; however, some of our contracts with large customers and some of the contracts assumed in our acquisitions contain no such limits or contain non-standard limits. We can provide no assurance that our limitation of liability provisions will be enforceable in all instances or, if enforceable, that they would otherwise protect us from liability. In the past, we have had relatively few disputes with our customers regarding the terms of their customer contracts, and most disputes to date have not been material, but we can provide no assurance that we will not have material disputes in the future. Moreover, as we expand our operations into new businesses, including digital solutions and the storage of valuable items, and respond to customer demands for higher limitation of liability, our exposure to contracts with higher or no limitations of liability and disputes with customers over contract interpretation may increase. Although we maintain a comprehensive insurance program, we can provide no assurance that we will be able to maintain insurance policies on acceptable terms or with high enough coverage amounts to cover losses to us in connection with customer contract disputes. Part I As a global company, we are subject to the unique risks of operating in many countries. As of December 31, 2022, we operated in 60 countries. The global nature of our business and our growth strategy, which includes continued acquisitions and investments in countries where we do not currently operate, is subject to numerous risks, including: • fluctuations of currency exchange rates in the markets in which we operate; • the impact of laws and regulations that apply to us in countries where we operate; in particular, we are subject to sanctions and anti-corruption laws, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the United Kingdom Bribery Act, and, although we have implemented internal controls, policies and procedures and training to deter prohibited practices, our employees, partners, contractors or agents may violate or circumvent such policies and the law; • costs and difficulties associated with managing global operations, including cross border sales; • the volatility of certain economies in which we operate; • political uncertainties and changes in the global political climate or other global events, such as trade wars or global pandemics, which may create additional risk in relation to our global operations, which may become more pronounced as we consolidate operations across countries and need to move data across borders; • the risk that business partners upon whom we depend for technical assistance or management and acquisition expertise in some markets will not perform as expected; • difficulties attracting and retaining local management and key employees to operate our business in certain countries; and • cultural differences and differences in business practices and operating standards, as well as risks and challenges in expanding into countries where we have no prior operational experience. If we fail to meet our commitment to transition to more renewable and sustainable sources of energy, it may negatively impact our ability to attract and retain customers, employees and investors who focus on this commitment. Furthermore, changes to environmental laws and standards may increase the cost to operate some of our businesses. This could impact our results of operations, our competitiveness and the trading value of our stock. We have made a commitment to prioritize sustainable energy practices, reduce our carbon footprint and transition to more renewable and sustainable sources of energy, particularly in our Global Data Center Business. We have made progress towards reducing our carbon footprint, but if we are not successful in continuing this reduction or if our customers, employees and investors are not satisfied with our sustainability efforts, it may negatively impact our ability to attract and retain customers, employees and investors who focus on this commitment. This could negatively impact our results of operations and the trading of our stock. Furthermore, changes in environmental laws in any jurisdiction in which we operate could increase compliance costs or impose limitations on our operations. For example, our emergency generators at our data centers are subject to regulations and permit requirements governing air pollutants, and the heating, ventilation and air conditioning and fire suppression systems at some of our data centers and data management locations may include ozone-depleting substances that are subject to regulation. While environmental regulations do not normally impose material costs upon operations at our facilities, unexpected events, equipment malfunctions, human error and changes in law or regulations, among other factors, could result in unexpected costs, which could be material. Our use of joint ventures could expose us to additional risks and liabilities, including our reliance on joint venture partners who may have economic and business interests that are inconsistent with our business interests, our lack of sole decision-making authority, and disputes between us and our joint venture partners. As part of our growth strategy, particularly in connection with our international and data center expansion, we currently, and may in the future, co-invest with third parties using joint ventures. These joint ventures can result in our holding non-controlling interests in, or having shared responsibility for managing the affairs of, a property or portfolio of properties, business, partnership, joint venture or other entity. As a result, in connection with our pursuit or entrance into any such joint venture, we may be subject to additional risks, including: • our ability to sell our interests in the joint venture may be limited by the joint venture agreement; • we may not have the right to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding the properties, business, partnership, joint venture or other entity; • if our partners become bankrupt or fail to fund their share of required capital contributions, we may choose or be required to contribute unplanned capital; and • our partners may have economic, tax or other interests or goals that are inconsistent with our interests or goals, and that could affect our ability to negotiate satisfactory joint venture terms, to operate the property or business or maintain our qualification for taxation as a REIT. Each of these factors may result in returns on these investments being less than we expect or in losses, and our financial and operating results may be adversely affected. Part I Significant costs or disruptions at our data centers could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our Global Data Center Business depends on providing customers with highly reliable facilities, power infrastructure and operations solutions, and we will need to retain and hire qualified personnel to manage our data centers. Service interruptions or significant equipment damage could result in difficulty maintaining service level commitment obligations that we owe to certain of our customers. Service interruptions or equipment damage may occur at one or more of our data centers because of numerous factors, including: human error; equipment failure; physical, electronic and cyber security breaches; fire, hurricane, flood, earthquake and other natural disasters; water damage; fiber cuts; extreme temperatures; power loss or telecommunications failure; war, terrorism and any related conflicts or similar events worldwide; and sabotage and vandalism. We purchase significant amounts of electricity and water for cooling from suppliers that are subject to environmental laws, regulations and permit requirements. These environmental requirements are subject to material change, which could result in increases in our suppliers’ compliance costs that may be passed through to us or otherwise constrain the availability of such resources. In addition, climate change may increase the likelihood that our data centers are affected by some of these factors. While these risks could impact our overall business, they could have a more significant impact on our Global Data Center Business, where we have service level commitment obligations to certain of our customers. As a result, service interruptions or significant equipment damage at our data centers could result in difficulty maintaining service level commitments to these customers and potential claims related to such failures. Because our data centers are critical to many of our customers’ businesses, service interruptions or significant equipment damage at our data centers could also result in lost profits or other indirect or consequential damages to our customers, which could in turn result in contractual liability to our customers or impair our ability to obtain and retain customers, which would adversely affect both our ability to generate revenue and our results of operations. We also rely on third party telecommunications carriers to provide internet connectivity to our customers. These carriers may elect not to offer or to restrict their services within our data centers or may elect to discontinue such services. Furthermore, carriers may face business difficulties, which could affect their ability to provide telecommunications services or the quality of such services. If connectivity is interrupted or terminated, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Events such as these may also impact our reputation as a data center provider which could adversely affect our results of operations. Our Global Data Center Business is susceptible to regional costs of power, power shortages, planned or unplanned power outages and limitations on the availability of adequate power resources. We rely on third parties to provide power to our data centers. We are therefore subject to an inherent risk that such third parties may fail to deliver such power in adequate quantities or on a consistent basis. If the power delivered to our data centers is insufficient or interrupted, we would be required to provide power through the operation of our on-site generators, generally at a significantly higher operating cost. Additionally, global fluctuations in the price of power can increase the cost of energy, and we may be limited in our ability to, or may not always choose to, pass these increased costs on to our customers. We face additional risks in expanding our Global Data Center Business, including the significant amount of capital required. Expanding our Global Data Center Business requires significant capital commitments. In addition, we may be required to commit significant operational and financial resources in connection with the organic growth of our Global Data Center Business, generally 12 to 18 months in advance of securing customer contracts, and we may not have enough customer demand to support these data centers when they are built. We are currently experiencing rising construction costs which reflect the increase in cost of labor and raw materials, as well as supply chain and logistical challenges. Additional or unexpected disruptions to our supply chain or continued inflationary pressures could significantly affect the cost or timing of our planned expansion projects and interfere with our ability to meet commitments to customers who have contracted for space in new data centers under construction. All construction related data center projects require us to carefully select and rely on the experience of one or more design firms, general contractors, and associated subcontractors during the design and construction process. Should a design firm, general contractor, significant subcontractor, or key supplier experience financial or operational problems during the design or construction process, fail to perform properly or at all, we could experience significant delays, increased costs to complete the project, and other negative impacts to the expected return on our committed capital. There can be no assurance we will have sufficient customer demand to support the data centers we have acquired, or that we will not be adversely affected by the risks noted above under "Significant costs or disruptions at our data centers could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations", which could make it difficult for us to realize expected returns on our investments, if any. Part I Our ALM business may be subject to additional risks, including those related to its client and geographic concentration,  government trade policies, and macroeconomic conditions. A significant portion of the revenue from our ALM business is derived from a limited number of clients and tied to cyclical projects involving the decommissioning and destruction of IT assets and the disposition of components of such assets to purchasers in concentrated geographies. Though we generally enter into long-term contracts with such clients, the volume of work we perform for specific clients may vary over the life of each contract due to various factors including changes in client behavior or macroeconomic conditions impacting the availability of new IT assets in the marketplace. There can be no assurance that we will be able to retain our current volumes, existing clients or that, if we were to lose one or more of our significant clients, we would be able to replace such clients with clients that generate a comparable amount of revenue. Further, many of the purchasers of the decommissioned IT asset components are geographically concentrated, particularly within mainland China. If governments enact trade policies that restrict the export of IT assets into China or other markets in which we sell decommissioned IT asset components, or increase the enforcement of such policies, then the revenue from the sale of these assets may be negatively impacted. Additionally, uncertain macroeconomic conditions, particularly within mainland China, may reduce our purchasers’ demand for the IT asset components that we sell, thereby reducing our revenues and earnings. Failure to comply with certain regulatory and contractual requirements under our United States Government contracts could adversely affect our revenues, operating results and financial position and reputation. Having the United States Government as a customer subjects us to certain regulatory and contractual requirements. Failure to comply with these requirements could subject us to investigations, price reductions, up to treble damages, and civil penalties. Noncompliance with certain regulatory and contractual requirements could also result in us being suspended or debarred from future United States Government contracting. We may also face private derivative securities claims because of adverse government actions. Any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, operating results, financial position and reputation. We may be subject to certain costs and potential liabilities associated with the real estate required for our business. As of December 31, 2022, we operated approximately 1,400 facilities worldwide, including approximately 600 in the United States, and face special risks attributable to the real estate we own or lease. Such risks include: • acquisition and occupancy costs that make it difficult to meet anticipated margins and difficulty locating suitable facilities due to a relatively small number of available buildings having the desired characteristics in some real estate markets; • increases in rent expense and property taxes as a result of the increasing demand for industrial real estate; • uninsured losses or damage to our storage facilities due to an inability to obtain full coverage on a cost-effective basis for some casualties, such as fires, hurricanes and earthquakes, or any coverage for certain losses, such as losses from riots or terrorist activities; • inability to use our real estate holdings effectively and costs associated with vacating or consolidating facilities if the demand for physical storage were to diminish; • liability under environmental laws for the costs of investigation and cleanup of contaminated real estate owned or leased by us, whether or not (i) we know of, or were responsible for, the contamination, or (ii) the contamination occurred while we owned or leased the property; and • costs of complying with fire protection and safety standards. Some of our current and formerly owned or leased properties were previously used by entities other than us for industrial or other purposes, or were affected by waste generated from nearby properties, that involved the use, storage, generation and/or disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, including petroleum products. In some instances this prior use involved the operation of underground storage tanks or the presence of asbestos-containing materials. Where we are aware of environmental conditions that require remediation, we undertake appropriate activity, in accordance with all legal requirements. Although we have from time to time conducted limited environmental investigations and remedial activities at some of our former and current facilities, we have not undertaken an environmental review of all of our properties, including those we have acquired. We therefore may be potentially liable for environmental costs like those discussed above and may be unable to sell, rent, mortgage or use contaminated real estate owned or leased by us. Environmental conditions for which we might be liable may also exist at properties that we may acquire in the future. In addition, future regulatory action and environmental laws may impose costs for environmental compliance that do not exist today. Part I Unexpected events, including those resulting from climate change or geopolitical events, could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our reputation and results of operations. Unexpected events, including fires or explosions at our facilities, war or other military conflict, terrorist activities, natural disasters such as earthquakes and wildfires, unplanned power outages, supply disruptions, failure of equipment or systems, and severe weather events, such as droughts, heat waves, hurricanes, and flooding, could adversely affect our reputation and results of operations through physical damage to our facilities and equipment and through physical damage to, or disruption of, local infrastructure. During the past several years we have seen an increase in the frequency and intensity of severe weather events and we expect this trend to continue due to climate change. Some of our key facilities worldwide are vulnerable to severe weather events, and global weather pattern changes may also pose long-term risks of physical impacts to our business. Our customers rely on us to securely store and timely retrieve their critical information, and, while we maintain disaster recovery and business continuity plans that would be implemented in these situations, these unexpected events could result in customer service disruption, physical damage to one or more key operating facilities and the information stored in those facilities, the temporary closure of one or more key operating facilities or the temporary disruption of information systems, each of which could negatively impact our reputation and results of operations. In addition, these unexpected events could negatively impact our reputation if such events result in adverse publicity, governmental investigations or litigation or if customers do not otherwise perceive our response to be adequate. Fluctuations in commodity prices may affect our operating revenues and results of operations . Our operating revenues and results of operations are impacted by significant changes in commodity prices. In particular, our secure shredding operations generate revenue from the sale of shredded paper for recycling. Further, significant declines in the cost of paper may continue to negatively impact our revenues and results of operations, and increases in other commodity prices, including steel, may negatively impact our results of operations. Failure to manage and adequately implement our new IT systems could negatively affect our business. We rely on IT infrastructure, including hardware, networks, software, people and processes, to provide information to support assessments and conclusions about our operating performance. We are in the process of upgrading a number of our IT systems, including consolidating our existing finance operations platforms, and we face risks relating to these transitions. For example, we may incur greater costs than we anticipate training our personnel on the new systems, we may experience service disruptions or errors in accurately capturing data or retaining our records, and we may be delayed in meeting our various reporting obligations. There can be no assurance that we will manage our IT systems and implement these new systems as planned or that we will do so without disruptions to our operations, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDEBTEDNESS Our indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our various debt instruments. As of December 31, 2022, our total long-term debt was approximately $10,650.3 million, stockholders equity was approximately $636.7 million and we had cash and cash equivalents of approximately $141.8 million. Our indebtedness could have important consequences to our current and potential investors. These risks include: • inability to satisfy our obligations with respect to our various debt instruments; • inability to make borrowings to fund future working capital, capital expenditures and strategic growth opportunities, including acquisitions, further organic development of, and investment into, our Global Data Center Business, ALM and Fine Arts businesses and other service offerings, and other general corporate requirements, including possible required repurchases, redemptions or prepayments of our various indebtedness; • limits on our distributions to stockholders; in this regard if these limits prevented us from satisfying our REIT distribution requirements, we could fail to remain qualified for taxation as a REIT or, if these limits do not jeopardize our qualification for taxation as a REIT but do nevertheless prevent us from distributing 100% of our REIT taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax, and potentially a nondeductible excise tax, on the retained amounts; • limits on future borrowings under our existing or future credit arrangements, which could affect our ability to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs; • inability to generate sufficient funds to cover required interest payments; • restrictions on our ability to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms; • limits on our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the information management services industry; and • inability to adjust to adverse economic conditions that could place us at a disadvantage to our competitors with less debt and who, therefore, may be able to take advantage of opportunities that our indebtedness prevents us from pursuing. Certain of our indebtedness, including indebtedness under our credit agreement, is paid at floating interest rates, and as a result, our interest expense or the cost of our debt may increase due to rising interest rates or changes to benchmark rates. Part I Restrictive debt covenants may limit our ability to pursue our growth strategy. Our Credit Agreement and our indentures contain covenants restricting or limiting our ability to, among other things: • incur additional indebtedness; • pay dividends or make other restricted payments; • make asset dispositions; • create or permit liens; • sell, transfer or exchange assets; • guarantee certain indebtedness; • make acquisitions and other investments; and • enter into partnerships and joint ventures. These restrictions and our long-term commitment to reduce our leverage ratio may adversely affect our ability to pursue our acquisition and other growth strategies, including our strategic growth plan. We may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to finance the repurchase of outstanding senior notes upon a change of control event as required by our indentures. Upon the occurrence of a "change of control", as defined in our indentures, we will be required to offer to repurchase all of our outstanding senior notes. However, it is possible that we will not have sufficient funds at the time of a change of control to make the required repurchase of any outstanding notes or that restrictions in our Credit Agreement will not allow such repurchases. Certain important corporate events, however, such as leveraged recapitalizations that would increase the level of our indebtedness, would not constitute a "change of control" under our indentures. Iron Mountain Incorporated ( " IMI " ) is a holding company, and, therefore, its ability to make payments on its various debt obligations depends in large part on the operations of its subsidiaries. IMI is a holding company; substantially all of its assets consist of the equity in its subsidiaries, and substantially all of its operations are conducted by its direct and indirect consolidated subsidiaries. As a result, its ability to make payments on its debt obligations will be dependent upon the receipt of sufficient funds from its subsidiaries, whose ability to distribute funds may be limited by local capital requirements, joint venture structures and other applicable restrictions. However, our various debt obligations are guaranteed, on a joint and several and full and unconditional basis, by IMI’s U.S. subsidiaries that represent the substantial majority of its U.S. operations. RISKS RELATED TO OUR TAXATION AS A REIT If we fail to remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, we will be subject to tax at corporate income tax rates and will not be able to deduct distributions to stockholders when computing our taxable income. We have elected to be taxed as a REIT for federal income tax purposes beginning with our 2014 taxable year. We believe that our organization and method of operation comply with the rules and regulations promulgated under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), such that we will continue to qualify for taxation as a REIT. However, we can provide no assurance that we will remain qualified for taxation as a REIT. We also have invested in a subsidiary that intends to elect to be taxed as a REIT and therefore must independently satisfy all REIT qualification requirements. If such subsidiary REIT were to fail to qualify as a REIT, it may cause us to fail to remain qualified for taxation as a REIT. If we fail to remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, including as a result of a cascading failure of any subsidiary REIT to remain qualified as a REIT, we will be subject to federal income taxation at corporate income tax rates unless certain relief provisions apply. Qualification for taxation as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Code to our operations as well as various factual determinations concerning matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. There are limited judicial or administrative interpretations of applicable REIT provisions of the Code. If, in any taxable year, we fail to remain qualified for taxation as a REIT and are not entitled to relief under the Code: • we will not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income; • we will be subject to federal and state income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate income tax rates; and • we would not be eligible to elect REIT status again until the fifth taxable year that begins after the first year for which we failed to qualify for taxation as a REIT. Any such corporate tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for other purposes. If we fail to remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, we may need to borrow additional funds or liquidate some investments to pay any additional tax liability. Accordingly, funds available for investment and distributions to stockholders could be reduced. Part I As a REIT, failure to make required distributions would subject us to federal corporate income tax. We expect to continue paying regular quarterly distributions; however, the amount, timing and form of our regular quarterly distributions will be determined, and will be subject to adjustment, by our board of directors. To remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, we are generally required to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding net capital gain) each year, or in limited circumstances, the following year, to our stockholders. Generally, we expect to distribute all or substantially all of our REIT taxable income. If our cash available for distribution falls short of our estimates, we may be unable to maintain distributions that approximate our REIT taxable income and may fail to remain qualified for taxation as a REIT. In addition, our cash flows from operations may be insufficient to fund required distributions as a result of differences in timing between the actual receipt of income and the payment of expenses and the recognition of income and expenses for federal income tax purposes, or the effect of nondeductible expenditures. To the extent that we satisfy the 90% distribution requirement but distribute less than 100% of our REIT taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on our undistributed taxable income if the actual amount that we distribute to our stockholders for a calendar year is less than the minimum amount specified under the Code. We may be required to borrow funds, sell assets or raise equity to satisfy our REIT distribution requirements, to comply with asset ownership tests or to fund capital expenditures, future growth and expansion initiatives. In order to satisfy our REIT distribution requirements and maintain our qualification and taxation as a REIT, or to fund capital expenditures, future growth and expansion initiatives, we may need to borrow funds, sell assets or raise equity, even if our financial condition or the then-prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these borrowings, sales or offerings. Furthermore, the REIT distribution requirements and our commitment to investors on dividend growth may result in increasing our financing needs to fund capital expenditures, future growth and expansion initiatives, which would increase our indebtedness. An increase in our outstanding debt could lead to a downgrade of our credit ratings, which could negatively impact our ability to access credit markets. Further, certain of our current debt instruments limit the amount of indebtedness we and our subsidiaries may incur. Additional financing, therefore, may be unavailable, more expensive or restricted by the terms of our outstanding indebtedness. For a discussion of risks related to our substantial level of indebtedness, see "Risks Related to Our Indebtedness". Complying with REIT requirements may limit our flexibility, cause us to forgo otherwise attractive opportunities that we would otherwise pursue to execute our strategic growth plan, or otherwise reduce our income and amounts available for distribution to our stockholders. To remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, we must satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets and the amounts we distribute to our stockholders. Thus, compliance with these tests may require us to refrain from certain activities and may hinder our ability to make certain attractive investments, including the purchase of non-REIT qualifying operations or assets, the expansion of non-real estate activities, and investments in the businesses to be conducted by our taxable REIT subsidiaries ("TRSs"), and, to that extent, limit our opportunities and our flexibility to change our business strategy and execute on our strategic growth plan. This may restrict our ability to acquire certain businesses, enter into joint ventures or acquire minority interests of companies. Furthermore, acquisition opportunities in domestic and international markets may be adversely affected if we need or require the target company to comply with some REIT requirements prior to closing. We conduct a significant portion of our business activities, including our information management services businesses and several of our international operations, through domestic and foreign TRSs. Under the Code, no more than 20% of the value of the assets of a REIT may be represented by securities of one or more TRSs. Similar rules apply to other nonqualifying assets. These limitations may affect our ability to make additional investments in non-REIT qualifying operations or assets or in international operations through TRSs. If we fail to comply with specified asset ownership tests applicable to REITs as measured at the end of any calendar quarter, we generally must correct such failure within 30 days after the end of the applicable calendar quarter or qualify for statutory relief provisions to avoid losing our qualification for taxation as a REIT. As a result, we may be required to liquidate assets or to forgo our pursuit of otherwise attractive investments or executing on portions of our strategic growth plan. These actions may reduce our income and amounts available for distribution to our stockholders. As a REIT, we are limited in our ability to fund distribution payments using cash generated through our TRSs. Our ability to receive distributions from our TRSs is limited by the rules with which we must comply to maintain our qualification for taxation as a REIT. In particular, at least 75% of our gross income for each taxable year as a REIT must be derived from real estate, which generally includes gross income from providing customers with secure storage space or colocation or wholesale data center space. Consequently, no more than 25% of our gross income may consist of dividend income from our TRSs and other nonqualifying types of income. Thus, our ability to receive distributions from our TRSs may be limited, which may impact our ability to fund distributions to our stockholders using cash flows from our TRSs. Specifically, if our TRSs become highly profitable, we might become limited in our ability to receive net income from our TRSs in an amount required to fund distributions to our stockholders commensurate with that profitability. Part I In addition, a significant amount of our income and cash flows from our TRSs is generated from our international operations. In many cases, there are local withholding taxes and currency controls that may impact our ability or willingness to repatriate funds to the United States to help satisfy REIT distribution requirements. Our extensive use of TRSs, including for certain of our international operations, may cause us to fail to remain qualified for taxation as a REIT. Our operations include an extensive use of TRSs. The net income of our TRSs is not required to be distributed to us, and income that is not distributed to us generally is not subject to the REIT income distribution requirement. However, there may be limitations on our ability to accumulate earnings in our TRSs and the accumulation or reinvestment of significant earnings in our TRSs could result in adverse tax treatment. In particular, if the accumulation of cash in our TRSs causes (i) the fair market value of our securities in our TRSs to exceed 20% of the fair market value of our assets or (ii) the fair market value of our securities in our TRSs and other nonqualifying assets to exceed 25% of the fair market value of our assets, then we will fail to remain qualified for taxation as a REIT. Further, a substantial portion of our operations are conducted overseas, and a material change in foreign currency rates could also affect the value of our foreign holdings in our TRSs, negatively impacting our ability to remain qualified for taxation as a REIT. Even if we remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, some of our business activities are subject to corporate level income tax and foreign taxes, which will continue to reduce our cash flows, and we will have potential deferred and contingent tax liabilities. Even if we remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to some federal, state, local and foreign taxes, including taxes on any undistributed income, and state, local or foreign income, franchise, property and transfer taxes. In addition, we could in certain circumstances be required to pay an excise or penalty tax, which could be significant in amount, in order to utilize one or more relief provisions under the Code to maintain our qualification for taxation as a REIT. A portion of our business is conducted through TRSs because certain of our business activities could generate nonqualifying REIT income as currently structured and operated. The income of our domestic TRSs will continue to be subject to federal and state corporate income taxes. In addition, our international assets and operations will continue to be subject to taxation in the foreign jurisdictions where those assets are held or those operations are conducted. Any of these taxes would decrease our earnings and our available cash. We will also be subject to a federal corporate level income tax at the highest regular corporate income tax rate on gain recognized from a sale of a REIT asset where our basis in the asset is determined by reference to the basis of the asset in the hands of a C corporation (such as an asset that we hold in one of our qualified REIT subsidiaries ("QRSs") following the liquidation or other conversion of a former TRS). This tax is generally applicable to any disposition of such an asset during the five-year period after the date we first owned the asset as a REIT asset, to the extent of the built-in-gain based on the fair market value of such asset on the date we first held the asset as a REIT asset. In addition, any depreciation recapture income that we recognize because of accounting method changes that we make in connection with our acquisition activities will be fully subject to this tax. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively and increase the cost of our hedging and may cause us to incur tax liabilities. The REIT provisions of the Code limit our ability to hedge assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. Generally, income from hedging transactions that we enter into to manage risk of interest rate changes with respect to borrowings made or to be made by us to acquire or carry real estate assets and income from certain currency hedging transactions related to our non-United States operations, as well as income from qualifying counteracting hedges, do not constitute "gross income" for purposes of the REIT gross income tests. To the extent that we enter into other types of hedging transactions, the income from those transactions is likely to be treated as nonqualifying income for purposes of the REIT gross income tests. As a result of these rules, we may need to limit our use of advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through our TRSs. This could increase the cost of our hedging activities because our TRSs would be subject to tax on income or gains resulting from hedges entered into by them and may expose us to greater risks associated with changes in interest rates or exchange rates than we would otherwise want to bear. In addition, hedging losses in any of our TRSs generally will not provide any tax benefit, except for being carried forward for possible use against future income or gain in the TRSs. Distributions payable by REITs generally do not qualify for preferential tax rates. Dividends payable by United States corporations to noncorporate stockholders, such as individuals, trusts and estates, are generally eligible for reduced United States federal income tax rates applicable to "qualified dividends". Distributions paid by REITs generally are not treated as "qualified dividends" under the Code, and the reduced rates applicable to such dividends do not generally apply. However, for tax years beginning before 2026, REIT dividends paid to noncorporate stockholders that meet specified holding period requirements are generally taxed at an effective tax rate lower than applicable ordinary income tax rates due to the availability of a deduction under the Code for specified forms of income from passthrough entities. More favorable rates will nevertheless continue to apply to regular corporate "qualified" dividends, which may cause some investors to perceive that an investment in a REIT is less attractive than an investment in a non-REIT entity that pays dividends, thereby reducing the demand and market price of our common stock. Part I The ownership and transfer restrictions contained in our certificate of incorporation may not protect our qualification for taxation as a REIT, could have unintended antitakeover effects and may prevent our stockholders from receiving a takeover premium. In order for us to remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, no more than 50% of the value of outstanding shares of our capital stock may be owned, beneficially or constructively, by five or fewer individuals at any time during the last half of each taxable year. In addition, rents from "affiliated tenants" will not qualify as qualifying REIT income if we own 10% or more by vote or value of the customer, whether directly or after application of attribution rules under the Code. Subject to certain exceptions, our certificate of incorporation prohibits any stockholder from owning, beneficially or constructively, more than (i) 9.8% in value of the outstanding shares of all classes or series of our capital stock or (ii) 9.8% in value or number, whichever is more restrictive, of the outstanding shares of any class or series of our capital stock. We refer to these restrictions collectively as the "ownership limits" and we included them in our certificate of incorporation to facilitate our compliance with REIT tax rules. The constructive ownership rules under the Code are complex and may cause the outstanding stock owned by a group of related individuals or entities to be deemed to be constructively owned by one individual or entity. As a result, the acquisition of less than 9.8% of our outstanding common stock (or the outstanding shares of any class or series of our capital stock) by an individual or entity could cause that individual or entity or another individual or entity to own constructively in excess of the relevant ownership limits. Any attempt to own or transfer shares of our common stock or of any of our other capital stock in violation of these restrictions may result in the shares being automatically transferred to a charitable trust or may be void. Even though our certificate of incorporation contains the ownership limits, there can be no assurance that these provisions will be effective to prevent our qualification for taxation as a REIT from being jeopardized, including under the affiliated tenant rule. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we will be able to monitor and enforce the ownership limits. If the restrictions in our certificate of incorporation are not effective and, as a result, we fail to satisfy the REIT tax rules described above, then, absent an applicable relief provision, we will fail to remain qualified for taxation as a REIT. In addition, the ownership and transfer restrictions could delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. As a result, the overall effect of the ownership and transfer restrictions may be to render more difficult or discourage any attempt to acquire us, even if such acquisition may be favorable to the interests of our stockholders. Legislative or other actions affecting REITs could have a negative effect on us or our stockholders. At any time, the federal or state income tax laws governing REITs, the administrative interpretations of those laws, or local laws impacting our REIT structure for our international operations may be amended. Federal, state and local tax laws are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process, the IRS, the United States Department of the Treasury ("Treasury") and state and local taxing authorities. Changes to the tax laws, regulations and administrative interpretations or local laws governing our international operations, which may have retroactive application, could adversely affect us. In addition, some of these changes could have a more significant impact on us as compared to other REITs due to the nature of our business and our substantial use of TRSs, particularly non-United States TRSs, or how we have structured our operations outside the United States to comply with REIT qualification requirements. We cannot predict with certainty whether, when, in what forms, or with what effective dates, the tax laws, regulations, administrative interpretations or local laws applicable to us may be changed or if such laws would impact our ability to remain qualified for taxation as a REIT or the costs of doing so. GENERAL RISK FACTORS Our cash distributions are not guaranteed and may fluctuate. As a REIT, we are generally required to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income to our stockholders. Furthermore, we are committed to growing our dividends, and have stated this publicly. Our board of directors, in its sole discretion, will determine, on a quarterly basis, the amount of cash to be distributed to our stockholders based on a number of factors including, but not limited to, our results of operations, cash flow and capital requirements, economic conditions, tax considerations, borrowing capacity and other factors, including debt covenant restrictions that may impose limitations on cash payments, future acquisitions and divestitures, any stock repurchase program and general market demand for our space and related services. Consequently, our distribution levels may fluctuate and we may not be able to meet our public commitments with respect to dividend growth. Our business could be adversely impacted if there are deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting. The design and effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting may not prevent all errors, misstatements or misrepresentations. While management will continue to review the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, there can be no guarantee that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective in accomplishing all control objectives all of the time. Furthermore, our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting with respect to entities that we do not control or manage may be substantially more limited than those we maintain with respect to the subsidiaries that we have controlled or managed over the course of time. Deficiencies, including any material weakness, in our internal control over financial reporting which may occur in the future could result in misstatements of our results of operations, restatements of our financial statements, a decline in our stock price, or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. Part I We face competition for customers. We compete with multiple businesses in all geographic areas where we operate; our current or potential customers may choose to use those competitors instead of us. In addition, if we are successful in winning customers from competitors, the process of moving their stored records into our facilities is often costly and time consuming. We also compete, in some of our business lines, with our current and potential customers’ internal storage and information management services capabilities and their cloud-based alternatives. These organizations may not begin or continue to use us for their future storage and information management service needs. The performance of our businesses relies on our ability to attract, develop, and retain talented personnel, while controlling our labor costs. We are highly dependent on skilled and qualified personnel to operate our businesses. Furthermore, our contracts with the United States Government require us to use personnel with security clearances, and we may not be successful or may experience delays in attracting, training or retaining qualified personnel with the requisite skills or security clearances. The failure to attract and retain qualified employees or to effectively control our labor costs could negatively affect our competitive position and operating results. Our ability to control labor costs and attract qualified personnel is subject to numerous external factors, including prevailing wages, labor shortages, the impact of legislation or regulations governing wages and hours, labor relations, immigration, healthcare and other benefits, other employment-related costs and the hiring practices of our competitors.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto and the other financial and operating information included elsewhere in this Annual Report. This discussion contains "forward-looking statements" as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and in other securities laws. See "Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements" on page iii of this Annual Report and "Item 1A. Risk Factors" beginning on page of this Annual Report. Part II OVERVIEW PROJECT MATTERHORN In September 2022, we announced Project Matterhorn, our global program designed to accelerate the growth of our business. Project Matterhorn investments will focus on transforming our operating model to a global operating model. Project Matterhorn will focus on the formation of a solution-based sales approach that is designed to allow us to optimize our shared services and best practices to better serve our customers' needs. We will be investing to accelerate growth and to capture a greater share of the large, global addressable markets in which we operate. We expect to incur approximately $150.0 million in costs annually related to Project Matterhorn from 2023 through 2025. Costs are comprised of (1) restructuring costs, which include (i) site consolidation and other related exit costs, (ii) employee severance costs and (iii) certain professional fees associated with these activities, and (2) other transformation costs, which include professional fees such as project management costs and costs for third party consultants who are assisting in the enablement our growth initiatives. Total costs related to Project Matterhorn during the year ended December 31, 2022 were approximately $41.9 million and are included in Restructuring and other transformation in our Consolidated Statement of Operations. There were no Restructuring and other transformation costs related to Project Matterhorn for the year ended December 31, 2021. ACQUISITION OF ITRENEW On January 25, 2022, in order to expand our ALM operations, we acquired an approximately 80% interest in Intercept Parent, Inc. ("ITRenew"). From January 25, 2022, we consolidate 100% of the revenues and expenses associated with this business. ITRenew is presented in Corporate and Other and primarily operates in the United States. See Acquisitions within the Liquidity and Capital Resources section below for additional information. PROJECT SUMMIT In October 2019, we announced Project Summit, our global program designed to better position us for future growth and achievement of our strategic objectives. As of December 31, 2021, we completed Project Summit. As a result of the program, we simplified our global structure, rebalanced resources to focus on higher growth areas, realigned our management structure to create a more dynamic, agile organization, made investments to enhance the customer experience and leveraged new technology solutions that enabled us to modernize our service delivery model and more efficiently utilize our fleet, labor and real estate. Project Summit improved annual Adjusted EBITDA (as defined below) by approximately $375.0 million exiting 2021, of which approximately $50.0 million and $160.0 million were realized in 2022 and 2021, respectively. The implementation of Project Summit resulted in total restructuring costs of approximately $450.0 million that primarily consisted of: (i) employee severance costs; (ii) internal costs associated with the development and implementation of Project Summit initiatives; (iii) professional fees, primarily related to third party consultants who assisted with the design and execution of various initiatives as well as project management activities and (iv) system implementation and data conversion costs. Total restructuring costs included in Restructuring and other transformation in our Consolidated Statements of Operations for the year ended December 31, 2021 were $206.4 million. As Project Summit was completed as of December 31, 2021, there were no restructuring costs for Project Summit for the year ended December 31, 2022. DIVESTMENTS AND DECONSOLIDATIONS OSG RECORDS MANAGEMENT (EUROPE) LIMITED DECONSOLIDATION On March 24, 2022, as a result of our loss of control, we deconsolidated the businesses included in our acquisition of OSG Records Management (Europe) Limited, excluding Ukraine ("OSG Deconsolidation"). We recognized a loss of approximately $105.8 million associated with the deconsolidation to Other (income) expense, net in the first quarter of 2022 representing the difference between the net asset value prior to the deconsolidation and the subsequent remeasurement of the retained investment to a fair value of zero. These businesses represented approximately $44.9 million of total revenues and $7.2 million of total net income for the year ended December 31, 2021. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY MANAGEMENT BUSINESS DIVESTMENT On June 7, 2021, we sold our Intellectual Property Management ("IPM") business, which we predominantly operated in the United States, for total gross consideration of approximately $215.4 million (the "IPM Divestment"). As a result of the IPM Divestment, we recorded a gain on sale of approximately $179.0 million to Other (income) expense, net during the year ended December 31, 2021, representing the excess of the fair value of the consideration received over the sum of the carrying value of the IPM business. Our IPM business represented approximately $14.2 million and $6.8 million of total revenues and total net income, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2021. Part II GENERAL RESULTS OF OPERATIONS - KEY TRENDS • We have experienced steady volume in our Global RIM Business segment, with organic storage rental revenue growth driven primarily by revenue management. We expect organic storage rental revenue growth to benefit from revenue management and volume to be relatively stable in the near term. • Our organic service revenue growth is primarily due to increases in our service activity. We expect organic service revenue growth in 2023 to benefit from our new and existing digital offerings, as well as our traditional services. • We expect continued total revenue and Adjusted EBITDA growth in 2023 as a result of our focus on new product and service offerings, innovation, customer solutions and market expansion in line with our Project Matterhorn objectives. • We expect the impact of a stronger US dollar to create headwinds on reported total revenue and Adjusted EBITDA growth in 2023 against prior periods. Our revenues consist of storage rental revenues as well as service revenues and are reflected net of sales and value-added taxes. Storage rental revenues, which are considered a key driver of financial performance for the storage and information management services industry, consist primarily of recurring periodic rental charges related to the storage of materials or data (generally on a per unit basis) that are typically retained by customers for many years and revenues associated with our data center operations. Service revenues include charges for related service activities, the most significant of which include: (1) the handling of records, including the addition of new records, temporary removal of records from storage, refiling of removed records, customer termination and permanent withdrawal fees, project revenues and courier operations, consisting primarily of the pickup and delivery of records upon customer request; (2) destruction services, consisting primarily of (i) secure shredding of sensitive documents and the subsequent sale of shredded paper for recycling, the price of which can fluctuate from period to period, and (ii) the decommissioning, data erasure, processing and disposition or sale of IT hardware and component assets; (3) digital solutions, including the scanning, imaging and document conversion services of active and inactive records, and consulting services; and (4) data center services, including set up, monitoring and support of our customers' assets which are protected in our data center facilities, and special project services, including data center fitout. Our Records Management and Data Management service revenue growth is being negatively impacted by declining activity rates as stored records and tapes are becoming less active and more archival. While customers continue to store their records and tapes with us, they are less likely than they have been in the past to retrieve records for research and other purposes, thereby reducing service activity levels. Cost of sales (excluding depreciation and amortization) consists primarily of labor, including wages and benefits for field personnel, facility occupancy costs (including rent and utilities), transportation expenses (including vehicle leases and fuel), other product cost of sales and other equipment costs and supplies. Of these, labor and facility occupancy costs are the most significant. Selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of wages and benefits for management, administrative, IT, sales, account management and marketing personnel, as well as expenses related to communications and data processing, travel, professional fees, bad debts, training, office equipment and supplies. Part II Cost of sales (excluding depreciation and amortization) and Selling, general and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2022 consists of the following: Our depreciation and amortization charges result primarily from depreciation related to storage systems, which include racking structures, buildings, building and leasehold improvements and computer systems hardware and software. Amortization relates primarily to customer and supplier relationship intangible assets, contract fulfillment costs and data center lease-based intangible assets. Both depreciation and amortization are impacted by the timing of acquisitions. Our consolidated revenues and expenses are subject to the net effect of foreign currency translation related to our operations outside the United States. It is difficult to predict the future fluctuations of foreign currency exchange rates and how those fluctuations will impact our Consolidated Statements of Operations. As a result of the relative size of our international operations, these fluctuations may be material on individual balances. Our revenues and expenses from our international operations are generally denominated in the local currency of the country in which they are derived or incurred. Therefore, the impact of currency fluctuations on our operating income and operating margin is partially mitigated. In order to provide a framework for assessing how our underlying businesses performed excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, we compare the percentage change in the results from one period to another period in this report using constant currency presentation. The constant currency growth rates are calculated by translating the 2021 results at the 2022 average exchange rates. Constant currency growth rates are a non-GAAP measure. Part II The following table is a comparison of underlying average exchange rates of the foreign currencies that had the most significant impact on our United States dollar-reported revenues and expenses: The percentage of United States dollar-reported revenues for all other foreign currencies was 12.7% and 14.6% for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Part II NON-GAAP MEASURES ADJUSTED EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA is defined as net income (loss) before interest expense, net, provision (benefit) for income taxes, depreciation and amortization (inclusive of our share of Adjusted EBITDA from our unconsolidated joint ventures), and excluding certain items we do not believe to be indicative of our core operating results, specifically: Adjusted EBITDA Margin is calculated by dividing Adjusted EBITDA by total revenues. We also show Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin for each of our reportable segments under "Results of Operations – Segment Analysis" below. Adjusted EBITDA excludes both interest expense, net and the provision (benefit) for income taxes. These expenses are associated with our capitalization and tax structures, which we do not consider when evaluating the operating profitability of our core operations. Adjusted EBITDA also does not include depreciation and amortization expenses, in order to eliminate the impact of capital investments, which we evaluate by comparing capital expenditures to incremental revenue generated and as a percentage of total revenues. Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, other measures of financial performance reported in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"), such as operating income, net income (loss) or cash flows from operating activities (as determined in accordance with GAAP). RECONCILIATION OF NET INCOME (LOSS) TO ADJUSTED EBITDA (IN THOUSANDS): (1) Represent operating expenditures directly associated with the closing and integration activities of our business acquisitions that have closed, or are highly probable of closing, and include (i) advisory, legal and professional fees to complete business acquisitions and (ii) costs to integrate acquired businesses into our existing operations, including move, severance and system integration costs (collectively, "Acquisition and Integration Costs"). (2) Includes foreign currency transaction (gains) losses, net, debt extinguishment expense and other, net. See Note 2.v. to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for additional information regarding the components of Other (income) expense, net. Part II ADJUSTED EPS Adjusted EPS is defined as reported earnings per share fully diluted from net income (loss) attributable to Iron Mountain Incorporated (inclusive of our share of adjusted losses (gains) from our unconsolidated joint ventures) and excluding certain items, specifically: We do not believe these excluded items to be indicative of our ongoing operating results, and they are not considered when we are forecasting our future results. We believe Adjusted EPS is of value to our current and potential investors when comparing our results from past, present and future periods. RECONCILIATION OF REPORTED EPS—FULLY DILUTED FROM NET INCOME (LOSS) ATTRIBUTABLE TO IRON MOUNTAIN INCORPORATED TO ADJUSTED EPS—FULLY DILUTED FROM NET INCOME (LOSS) ATTRIBUTABLE TO IRON MOUNTAIN INCORPORATED: (1) Relates to the amortization of the excluded component of our cross-currency swap agreements, which is recognized on a straight-line basis as a component of Interest expense, net in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. (2) The difference between our effective tax rate and our structural tax rate (or adjusted effective tax rate) for the years ended December 31, 2022 and  2021 is primarily due to (i) the reconciling items above, which impact our reported net income (loss) before provision (benefit) for income taxes but have an insignificant impact on our reported provision (benefit) for income taxes and (ii) other discrete tax items. Our structural tax rate for purposes of the calculation of Adjusted EPS for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 was 15.2% and 17.7%, respectively. (3) Columns may not foot due to rounding. Part II FFO (NAREIT) AND FFO (NORMALIZED) Funds from operations ("FFO") is defined by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts as net income (loss) excluding depreciation on real estate assets, losses and gains on sale of real estate, net of tax, and amortization of data center leased-based intangibles ("FFO (Nareit)"). We calculate our FFO measures, including FFO (Nareit), adjusting for our share of reconciling items from our unconsolidated joint ventures. FFO (Nareit) does not give effect to real estate depreciation because these amounts are computed, under GAAP, to allocate the cost of a property over its useful life. Because values for well-maintained real estate assets have historically increased or decreased based upon prevailing market conditions, we believe that FFO (Nareit) provides investors with a clearer view of our operating performance. Our most directly comparable GAAP measure to FFO (Nareit) is net income (loss). We modify FFO (Nareit), as is common among REITs seeking to provide financial measures that most meaningfully reflect their particular business ("FFO (Normalized)"). Our definition of FFO (Normalized) excludes certain items included in FFO (Nareit) that we believe are not indicative of our core operating results, specifically: RECONCILIATION OF NET INCOME (LOSS) TO FFO (NAREIT) AND FFO (NORMALIZED) (IN THOUSANDS): (1) Includes depreciation expense related to owned real estate assets (land improvements, buildings, building improvements, leasehold improvements and racking), excluding depreciation related to real estate financing leases. (2) Tax expense associated with the gain on sale of real estate for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 was $0.8 million and $25.4 million, respectively. (3) Includes amortization expense for Data Center In-Place Lease Intangible Assets and Data Center Tenant Relationship Intangible Assets as defined in Note 2.m. to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report. (4) Represents the tax impact of (i) the reconciling items above, which impacts our reported net income (loss) before provision (benefit) for income taxes but has an insignificant impact on our reported provision (benefit) for income taxes and (ii) other discrete tax items. Discrete tax items resulted in a (benefit) provision for income taxes of $(11.9) million and $19.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. Part II CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and for the period then ended. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate the estimates used. We base our estimates on historical experience, actuarial estimates, current conditions and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. These estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities and are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates. The following should be read in conjunction with Note 2 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report, which provides a summary of our significant accounting policies. Our critical accounting estimates include the following, which are listed in no particular order: REVENUE RECOGNITION Revenue is recognized when or as control of promised goods or services is transferred to the customer, in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. See Note 2.s. to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for additional details on our revenue recognition policies. Revenue for all our lines of business, with the exception of storage revenues in our Global Data Center Business (which is subject to leasing guidance), is recognized in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 606, Revenue from Contracts with Customers ("ASC 606"), the application of which requires that we make estimates and judgements that may affect the amount and timing of revenue we recognize. We have determined that the majority of our contracts contain series performance obligations which qualify to be recognized under a practical expedient available in ASC 606 known as the "right to invoice". This determination allows variable consideration in such contracts to be allocated to and recognized in the period to which the consideration relates, which is typically the period in which it is billed, rather than requiring estimation of variable consideration at the inception of the contract. Revenue from product sales, the significant majority of which are shred paper and IT asset sales, is recognized at the point in time at which control transfers to the customer, which is generally upon shipment. From time to time, we make payments to entities that are also customers under a revenue contract. These payments are primarily comprised of (i) Customer Inducements (as defined in Note 2.m. to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report) and (ii) payments to customers of our ALM business under revenue sharing arrangements for the remarketing of the customer's disposed IT assets. Customer Inducements do not represent payments for a distinct service, and, as such, are treated as a reduction of the transaction price over periods ranging from one to 10 years. Payments for disposed IT assets are for a distinct good and, as such, are expensed as cost of goods sold in the period the revenue share is known or estimable. Contract Fulfillment Costs (as defined in Note 2.s. to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report) are generally amortized over a three year term, which we have determined is consistent with the transfer of the underlying performance obligations to which the assets relate. Different determinations on term length would result in differences in the amount and timing of amortization expense recognized. ACCOUNTING FOR ACQUISITIONS Part of our growth strategy has been to acquire businesses. The purchase price of each acquisition is determined after due diligence of the target business, market research, strategic planning and the forecasting of expected future results and synergies. Estimated future results and expected synergies are subject to revisions as we integrate each acquisition and attempt to leverage resources. Accounting for acquisitions of a business has resulted in the capitalization of the cost in excess of the estimated fair value of the net assets acquired in each of these acquisitions as goodwill. We estimate the fair values of the assets acquired in each acquisition as of the date of acquisition and these estimates are subject to adjustment based on the final assessments of the fair value of intangible assets (primarily customer and supplier relationship and data center lease-based intangible assets), property, plant and equipment (primarily building, building improvements, leasehold improvements, data center infrastructure and racking structures), operating leases, contingencies and income taxes (primarily deferred income taxes). See Note 3 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for a description of recent acquisitions. Determining the fair values of the net assets acquired requires management’s judgment and often involves the use of assumptions with respect to future cash inflows and outflows, discount rates and market data, among other items. As it relates to our data center acquisitions, the fair values of the net assets acquired requires management’s judgment and often involves the use of assumptions with respect to (i) certain economic costs (as described more fully in Note 2.m. to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report) avoided by acquiring a data center operation with active tenants that would have otherwise been incurred if the data center operation was purchased vacant, (ii) market rental rates and (iii) expectations of lease renewals and extensions. Due to the inherent uncertainty of future events, actual values of net assets acquired could be different from our estimated fair values and could have a material impact on our financial statements. Part II Of the net assets acquired in our acquisitions, the fair value of owned buildings, including building improvements, customer and supplier relationship and data center lease-based intangible assets, racking structures and operating leases are generally the most common and most significant. For significant acquisitions or acquisitions involving new markets or new products, we generally use third parties to assist us in estimating the fair value of owned buildings, including building improvements, customer and supplier relationship and lease-based intangible assets and market rental rates for acquired operating leases. For acquisitions that are not significant or do not involve new markets or new products, we generally use third parties to assist us in estimating the fair value of acquired owned buildings, including building improvements, and market rental rates for acquired operating leases. When not using third party appraisals of the fair value of acquired net assets, the fair value of acquired customer and supplier relationship intangible assets, above and below market in-place operating leases, and racking structures is determined internally. We use discounted cash flow models to determine the fair value of customer and supplier relationship intangible assets, which requires a significant amount of judgment by management, including estimating expected lives of the relationships, expected future cash flows and discount rates. The fair value of above and below market in-place operating leases is determined internally using a discounted cash flow model, utilizing the difference in cash flows between the contractual lease payments over the remaining lease term and estimated market rental rates on comparable assets at the time of the acquisition. The fair value of acquired racking structures is determined internally by taking current estimated replacement cost at the date of acquisition for the quantity of racking structures acquired, discounted to take into account the quality (e.g. age, material and type) of the racking structures. We determine the fair value of tangible data center assets using an estimated replacement cost at the date of acquisition, then discounting for age, economic and functional obsolescence. The fair value of the Deferred Purchase Obligation associated with the ITRenew Transaction (each as defined below) was determined utilizing a Monte-Carlo simulation model and takes into account our forecasted projections as it relates to the underlying performance of the business. The Monte-Carlo simulation model incorporates assumptions as to expected gross profits over the applicable achievement period, including adjustments for the volatility of timing and amount of the associated revenue and costs, as well as discount rates that account for the risk of the underlying arrangement and overall market risks. Our estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable at that time but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable. Assumptions may be incomplete or inaccurate, and unanticipated events and circumstances may occur, which may affect the accuracy of such assumptions. Total customer and supplier relationship intangible assets acquired in our 2022 acquisitions were approximately $491.3 million. IMPAIRMENT OF TANGIBLE AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS ASSETS SUBJECT TO DEPRECIATION OR AMORTIZATION We review long-lived assets and finite-lived intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable. Examples of events or circumstances that may be indicative of impairment include, but are not limited to: • A significant decrease in the market price of an asset; • A significant change in the extent or manner in which a long-lived asset is being used or in its physical condition; • A significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate that could affect the value of the asset; • An accumulation of costs significantly greater than the amount originally expected for the acquisition or construction of an asset; • A current-period operating or cash flow loss combined with a history of operating or cash flow losses or a projection or forecast that demonstrates continuing losses associated with the use of a long-lived asset; and • A current expectation that, more likely than not, an asset will be sold or otherwise disposed of significantly before the end of its previously estimated useful life. If events indicate the carrying value of such assets may not be recoverable, recoverability of these assets is determined by comparing the sum of the forecasted undiscounted net cash flows of the operation to which the assets relate to their carrying amount. The operations are generally distinguished by the business segment and geographic region in which they operate. If it is determined that we are unable to recover the carrying amount of the assets, the long-lived assets are written down, on a pro rata basis, to fair value. Fair value is determined based on discounted cash flows or appraised values, depending upon the nature of the assets. We did not record impairment charges for any of our long-lived assets or finite-lived intangibles during the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021. Part II GOODWILL AND OTHER INDEFINITE-LIVED INTANGIBLE ASSETS NOT SUBJECT TO AMORTIZATION Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are not amortized but are reviewed annually for impairment, or more frequently if impairment indicators arise. Other than goodwill, we currently have no intangible assets that have indefinite lives and which are not amortized. See Note 2.l. to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for additional details on our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets policies. We have selected October 1 as our annual goodwill impairment review date. We have performed our annual goodwill impairment review as of October 1, 2022 and 2021. We concluded that as of October 1, 2022 and 2021, goodwill was not impaired. Our reporting units at which level we performed our goodwill impairment analysis as of October 1, 2022 were as follows: See Note 2.l. to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for a description of our reporting units. Based on our goodwill impairment analysis as of October 1, 2022, all of our reporting units had estimated fair values exceeding their carrying values by greater than 20%. Our Global Data Center and ALM reporting units had an estimated fair value that exceeded their respective carrying values by approximately 20.4% and 28.0%, respectively. The Global Data Center and ALM reporting units represented approximately $995.9 million, or 20.4%, of our consolidated goodwill balance at December 31, 2022. The following is a summary of the Global Data Center and ALM reporting units including the goodwill balance (in thousands), the percentage by which the fair value of the reporting units exceeded their carrying values and certain key assumptions used by us in determining the fair value of the reporting units as of October 1, 2022: (1) For purposes of our goodwill impairment analysis, the term "capital expenditures" includes both growth investment and recurring capital expenditures. The capital expenditure assumptions in our goodwill impairment analysis for our Global Data Center reporting unit include significant growth investment in the next three years. (2) Terminal growth rates are applied after year 10 of our discounted cash flow analysis. The fair values of our reporting units are generally determined using a combined approach based on the present value of future cash flows (the "Discounted Cash Flow Model") and market multiples (the "Market Approach"). There are inherent uncertainties and judgments involved when determining the fair value of the reporting units for purposes of our annual goodwill impairment testing. The following includes supplemental information to the table above for the Global Data Center and ALM reporting units where the estimated fair value exceeded its carrying value by approximately 20.4% and 28.0%, respectively, as of October 1, 2022. The fair value of our Global Data Center reporting unit was determined using a combined Discounted Cash Flow Model and Market Approach, while the fair value of our ALM reporting unit was determined using a Discounted Cash Flow Model approach. The success of these businesses and the achievement of certain key assumptions developed by management and used in the Discounted Cash Flow Model are contingent upon various factors including, but not limited to, (i) achieving growth from existing customers, (ii) sales to new customers, (iii) increased market penetration and (iv) accurately timing the capital investments related to expansions. Part II GLOBAL DATA CENTER Our Global Data Center Business operates in 21 data centers across 19 global markets, either directly or through unconsolidated joint ventures. We provide enterprise-class data center facilities and hyperscale-ready capacity to protect mission-critical assets and ensure the continued operation of our customers’ IT infrastructure with secure, reliable and flexible data center options. Data centers are highly specialized and secure assets that serve as centralized repositories of server, storage and network equipment. They are capital intensive and designed to provide the space, power, cooling and network connectivity necessary to efficiently operate mission-critical IT equipment. The demand for data center infrastructure is being driven by many factors, but most importantly by significant growth in data as well as an increased demand for outsourcing. In order to attract and retain customers, as well as sustain growth in our existing and new markets, we must have the capability to tailor our facilities and invest capital to meet our customers’ needs. Our estimate of fair value reflects the expected growth in each of our data center markets along with the corresponding capital investments required to meet demand. ALM Our ALM business provides hyperscale and corporate IT infrastructure managers with services and solutions that enable the decommissioning, data erasure, processing and disposition or sale of IT hardware and component assets. ALM services are enabled by: (i) secure logistics, chain of custody and complete asset traceability practices; (ii) environmentally-responsible asset processing and recycling; and (iii) data sanitization and asset refurbishment services that enable value recovery through asset remarketing. The assumptions we used in determining fair value reflect the ongoing and anticipated expansion of these services, the timing of reopening of supply chains due to closures associated with border restrictions, particularly in mainland China, in connection with the COVID-19 pandemic, the maintenance and further development of the supplier relationships required to expand this business and meet customer demand and decommissioning schedules of our supplier's IT hardware and component assets, as well as associated market pricing and demand for such assets at that time. Our ALM business is substantially comprised of the ITRenew Transaction entered into during the first quarter of 2022; therefore, we would expect, at this time, that the fair value of this reporting unit would closely approximate its carrying value. KEY ASSUMPTIONS Key factors that could reasonably be expected to have a negative impact on the estimated fair value of these reporting units and potentially result in impairment charges include, but are not limited to: (i) a deterioration in general economic conditions, (ii) significant adverse changes in regulatory factors or in the business climate, and (iii) adverse actions or assessment by regulators, all of which could result in adverse changes to the key assumptions used in valuing the reporting units. The inability to meet the assumptions used in the Discounted Cash Flow Model and Market Approach for each of the reporting units, or future adverse market conditions not currently known, could lead to a fair value that is less than the carrying value in any one of our reporting units. The Discounted Cash Flow Model incorporates significant assumptions including future revenue growth rates, operating margins, discount rates and capital expenditures. The Market Approach requires us to make assumptions related to Adjusted EBITDA multiples. Changes in economic and operating conditions impacting these assumptions or changes in multiples could result in goodwill impairments in future periods. In conjunction with our annual goodwill impairment reviews, we reconcile the sum of the valuations of all of our reporting units to our market capitalization as of such dates. Although we believe we have sufficient historical and projected information available to us to test for goodwill impairment, it is possible that actual results could differ from the estimates used in our impairment tests. Of the key assumptions that impact the goodwill impairment test, the expected future cash flows and discount rate are among the most sensitive and are considered to be critical assumptions, as changes to these estimates could have an effect on the estimated fair value of each of our reporting units. We have assessed the sensitivity of these assumptions on each of our reporting units as of October 1, 2022. Part II At December 31, 2022, no factors were identified that would alter the conclusions of our October 1, 2022 goodwill impairment analysis. In making this assessment, we considered a number of factors including operating results, business plans, anticipated future cash flows, transactions and marketplace data. There are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and our judgment in applying them to the analysis of goodwill impairment. INCOME TAXES As a REIT, we are generally permitted to deduct from our federal taxable income the dividends we pay to our stockholders. The income represented by such dividends is not subject to federal taxation at the entity level but is taxed, if at all, at the stockholder level. The income of our domestic TRSs, which hold our domestic operations that may not be REIT-compliant as currently operated and structured, is subject, as applicable, to federal and state corporate income tax. In addition, we and our subsidiaries continue to be subject to foreign income taxes in other jurisdictions in which we have business operations or a taxable presence, regardless of whether assets are held or operations are conducted through subsidiaries disregarded for federal income tax purposes or TRSs. We will also be subject to a separate corporate income tax on any gains recognized on the sale or disposition of any asset previously owned by a C corporation during a five-year period after the date we first owned the asset as a REIT asset that are attributable to "built-in gains" with respect to that asset on that date. We will also be subject to a built-in gains tax on our depreciation recapture recognized into income as a result of accounting method changes in connection with our acquisition activities. If we fail to remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, we will be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate income tax rates. Even if we remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to some federal, state, local and foreign taxes on our income and property in addition to taxes owed with respect to our TRS operations. In particular, while state income tax regimes often parallel the federal income tax regime for REITs, many states do not completely follow federal rules and some do not follow them at all. See Note 10 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for additional details on our tax policies. Accounting for income taxes requires the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the tax and financial reporting bases of assets and liabilities and for loss and credit carryforwards. We measure deferred tax assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates expected to be applied to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences and carryforwards are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities as a result of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that the change is enacted. Valuation allowances are provided when recovery of deferred tax assets does not meet the more likely than not standard as defined in GAAP. Valuation allowances would be reversed as a reduction to the provision for income taxes if related deferred tax assets are deemed realizable based on changes in facts and circumstances relevant to the recoverability of the asset. Part II At December 31, 2022, we have federal net operating loss carryforwards of $63.5 million, which can be carried forward indefinitely, of which $57.1 million is expected to be realized to reduce future federal taxable income. We have assets for foreign net operating losses of $81.9 million, with various expiration dates (and in some cases no expiration date), subject to a valuation allowance of approximately 56.0%. If actual results differ unfavorably from certain of our estimates used, we may not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred income tax assets and additional valuation allowances may be required. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, no assurance can be given that our estimates reflected in the tax provisions and accruals will equal our actual results. These differences could have a material impact on our income tax provision and operating results in the period in which such determination is made. The evaluation of an uncertain tax position is a two-step process. The first step is a recognition process whereby we determine whether it is more likely than not that a tax position will be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. The second step is a measurement process whereby a tax position that meets the more likely than not recognition threshold is calculated to determine the amount of benefit to recognize in the financial statements. The tax position is measured as the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. We are subject to examination by various tax authorities in jurisdictions in which we have business operations or a taxable presence. We regularly assess the likelihood of additional assessments by tax authorities and provide for these matters as appropriate. As of both December 31, 2022 and 2021, we had approximately $27.8 million of reserves related to uncertain tax positions. The reversal of these reserves will be recorded as a reduction of our income tax provision if sustained. Although we believe our tax estimates are appropriate, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could result in changes in our estimates. During 2021, as a result of the enactment of a tax law and the closing of various acquisitions, we concluded that it is no longer our intention to reinvest our undistributed earnings of our foreign TRSs indefinitely outside the United States. As a REIT, future repatriation of incremental undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries will not be subject to federal or state income tax, with the exception of foreign withholding taxes. However, such future repatriations may require distributions to our stockholders in accordance with REIT distribution rules, and any such distribution may then be taxable, as appropriate, at the stockholder level. We expect to provide for foreign withholding taxes on the current and future earnings of all of our foreign subsidiaries as the result of such reassessment. Part II RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following information summarizes our results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021. For a discussion of our results for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the year ended December 31, 2020, see "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" included in Exhibit 99.1 of our Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on August 4, 2022. COMPARISON OF YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2022 TO YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2021 (IN THOUSANDS): (1) See "Non-GAAP Measures—Adjusted EBITDA" in this Annual Report for the definitions of Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin, reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to Net Income (Loss) and a discussion of why we believe these non-GAAP measures provide relevant and useful information to our current and potential investors. Part II REVENUES Total revenues consist of the following (in thousands): (1) Constant currency growth rate, which is a non-GAAP measure, is calculated by translating the 2021 results at the 2022 average exchange rates. (2) Our organic revenue growth rate, which is a non-GAAP measure, represents the year-over-year growth rate of our revenues excluding the impact of business acquisitions, divestitures and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, but including the impact of acquisitions of customer relationships. TOTAL REVENUES For the year ended December 31, 2022, the increase in revenue was driven by organic storage rental revenue growth, organic service revenue growth and our acquisition of ITRenew. Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations decreased our reported revenue growth rate by 3.4% in the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the prior year period. STORAGE RENTAL REVENUES AND SERVICE REVENUES Primary factors influencing the change in reported storage rental revenue and reported service revenue for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021 include the following: Part II OPERATING EXPENSES COST OF SALES Cost of sales (excluding depreciation and amortization) consists of the following expenses (in thousands): Primary factors influencing the change in reported Cost of sales for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021 include the following: • an increase in labor costs driven by an increase in service activity and the impact of recent acquisitions, partially offset by benefits from Project Summit; • an increase in facilities expenses driven by increases in rent expense, reflecting the impact from our sale-leaseback activity during the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2022, as well as increases in utilities and building maintenance costs; • an increase in product cost of sales and other driven by the acquisition of ITRenew; and • a decrease of $59.4 million due to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Part II SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES Selling, general and administrative expenses consists of the following expenses (in thousands): Primary factors influencing the change in reported Selling, general and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021 include the following: • an increase in general, administrative and other expenses, driven by recent acquisitions, higher wages and benefits, employee related costs, information technology costs and professional fees, partially offset by benefits from Project Summit; • an increase in sales, marketing and account management expenses, driven by higher compensation expense, primarily reflecting increased wages and benefits and recent acquisitions; and • a decrease of $24.5 million due to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION Our depreciation and amortization charges result primarily from depreciation related to storage systems, which include racking structures, buildings, building and leasehold improvements and computer systems hardware and software. Amortization relates primarily to customer and supplier relationship intangible assets, contract fulfillment costs and data center lease-based intangible assets. Both depreciation and amortization are impacted by the timing of acquisitions. Depreciation expense increased $13.9 million, or 3.0%, on a reported dollar basis for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021. See Note 2.i. to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for additional information regarding the useful lives over which our property, plant and equipment is depreciated. Amortization expense increased $33.3 million, or 15.4%, on a reported dollar basis for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021, primarily related to the amortization of intangible assets acquired as part of the acquisition of ITRenew. ACQUISITION AND INTEGRATION COSTS Acquisition and Integration Costs for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 was approximately $47.7 million and $12.8 million, respectively. RESTRUCTURING AND OTHER TRANSFORMATION Restructuring and other transformation costs for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 were approximately $41.9 million and $206.4 million, respectively, and related to operating expenses associated with the implementation of Project Matterhorn in 2022 and Project Summit in 2021. Part II GAIN ON DISPOSAL/WRITE-DOWN OF PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT, NET OTHER EXPENSES, NET INTEREST EXPENSE, NET Interest expense, net increased $70.1 million to $488.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2022 from $418.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2021. The increase is primarily due to higher average debt outstanding during the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the prior year period as well as an increase in our weighted average interest rate. Our weighted average interest rate, inclusive of the fees associated with our outstanding letters of credit, was 5.1% and 4.7% at December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. See Note 7 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for additional information regarding our indebtedness. OTHER (INCOME) EXPENSE, NET Other (income) expense, net consists of the following (in thousands): FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSACTION (GAINS) LOSSES, NET We recorded net foreign currency transaction gains of $61.7 million in the year ended December 31, 2022, based on period-end exchange rates. These gains resulted primarily from the impact of changes in the exchange rate of the Euro and the British pound sterling against the United States dollar compared to December 31, 2021 on our intercompany balances with and between certain of our subsidiaries. Part II OTHER, NET Other, net for the year ended December 31, 2022 consists primarily of (i) a gain of approximately $93.6 million associated with the remeasurement of the Deferred Purchase Obligation (as defined below) to the present value of our best estimate of fair value and (ii) a gain of approximately $35.8 million associated with the Clutter Transaction (as defined below), partially offset by (iii) a loss of approximately $105.8 million associated with the OSG Deconsolidation (as defined in Note 4) and (iv) losses on our equity method investments. Other, net for the year ended December 31, 2021 consists primarily of (i) a gain of approximately $179.0 million associated with our IPM Divestment and (ii) a gain of approximately $20.3 million associated with the loss of control and related deconsolidation, as of May 18, 2021, of one of our wholly owned Netherlands subsidiaries, for which we had value-added tax liability exposure that was recorded in 2019, partially offset by (iii) losses on our equity method investments. PROVISION (BENEFIT) FOR INCOME TAXES Our effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021 were 11.0% and 28.0%, respectively. Our effective tax rate is subject to variability in the future due to, among other items: (i) changes in the mix of income between our QRSs and our TRSs, as well as among the jurisdictions in which we operate; (ii) tax law changes; (iii) volatility in foreign exchange gains and losses; (iv) the timing of the establishment and reversal of tax reserves; (v) our ability to utilize net operating losses that we generate and (vi) the taxability or deductibility of significant transactions. The primary reconciling items between the federal statutory tax rate of 21.0% and our overall effective tax rate were: As a REIT, we are entitled to a deduction for dividends paid, resulting in a substantial reduction of federal income tax expense. As a REIT, substantially all of our income tax expense will be incurred based on the earnings generated by our foreign subsidiaries and our domestic TRSs. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. We are subject to examination by various tax authorities in jurisdictions in which we have business operations or a taxable presence. We regularly assess the likelihood of additional assessments by tax authorities and provide for these matters as appropriate. Although we believe our tax estimates are appropriate, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could result in changes in our estimates. Part II NET INCOME (LOSS) AND ADJUSTED EBITDA The following table reflects the effect of the foregoing factors on our net income (loss) and Adjusted EBITDA (in thousands): Part II SEGMENT ANALYSIS See the discussion of Business Segments under Item I and Note 11 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, both included in this Annual Report, for a description of our reportable segments. GLOBAL RIM BUSINESS (IN THOUSANDS) SEGMENT ANALYSIS: GLOBAL RIM BUSINESS (IN MILLIONS) Primary factors influencing the change in revenue and Adjusted EBITDA Margin in our Global RIM Business segment for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021 include the following: • organic storage rental revenue growth driven by revenue management and volume; • a 0.4% increase in Global RIM volume excluding deconsolidations (also excluding acquisitions, Global RIM volume increased 0.3%); • organic service revenue growth mainly driven by increases in our traditional service activity levels and growth in our Global Digital Solutions business; • a decrease in revenue of $117.1 million due to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; and • a 110 basis point increase in Adjusted EBITDA Margin primarily driven by revenue management, benefits from Project Summit and ongoing cost containment measures. Part II GLOBAL DATA CENTER BUSINESS (IN THOUSANDS) SEGMENT ANALYSIS: GLOBAL DATA CENTER BUSINESS (IN MILLIONS) Primary factors influencing the change in revenue and Adjusted EBITDA Margin in our Global Data Center Business segment for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021 include the following: • organic storage rental revenue growth from leases that commenced during 2022 and in prior periods and higher pass-through power costs, partially offset by churn of 350 basis points; • an increase in Adjusted EBITDA primarily driven by organic storage rental revenue growth; and • a 180 basis point increase in Adjusted EBITDA Margin reflecting ongoing cost management and a decline in lower margin project revenue, partially offset by higher pass-through power costs. Part II CORPORATE AND OTHER (IN THOUSANDS) Primary factors influencing the change in revenue and Adjusted EBITDA in Corporate and Other for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to the year ended December 31, 2021 include the following: • a decrease in reported storage revenue reflecting the IPM Divestment in the second quarter of 2021; • reported service revenue for the year ended December 31, 2022 includes $213.1 million from the acquisition of ITRenew; • organic service revenue growth mainly driven by increased service activity levels in our Fine Arts and ALM businesses; and • a decrease in Adjusted EBITDA driven by higher compensation expense and employee related costs, professional fees and the impact of the IPM Divestment, partially offset by benefits from Project Summit, improved service revenue trends and the impact of the acquisition of ITRenew. Part II LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES GENERAL We expect to meet our short-term and long-term cash flow requirements through cash generated from operations, cash on hand, borrowings under our Credit Agreement (as defined below) and proceeds from monetizing a small portion of our total industrial real estate assets, as well as other potential financings (such as the issuance of debt). Our cash flow requirements, both in the near and long term, include, but are not limited to, capital expenditures, the repayment of outstanding debt, shareholder dividends, potential business acquisitions and normal business operation needs. PROJECT MATTERHORN As disclosed above, in September 2022, we announced Project Matterhorn. We estimate that the implementation of Project Matterhorn will result in costs of approximately $150.0 million per year from 2023 through 2025. In 2022, we incurred approximately $41.9 million of Restructuring and other transformation costs related to Project Matterhorn which are comprised of (1) restructuring costs, which include (i) site consolidation and other related exit costs, (ii) employee severance costs and (iii) certain professional fees associated with these activities, and (2) other transformation costs, which include professional fees such as project management costs and costs for third party consultants who are assisting in the enablement our growth initiatives. CASH FLOWS The following is a summary of our cash balances and cash flows (in thousands) as of and for the years ended December 31, A. CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES For the year ended December 31, 2022, net cash flows provided by operating activities increased by $168.8 million compared to the prior year period primarily due to an increase in net income (excluding non-cash charges) of $289.6 million, partially offset by a decrease in cash from working capital of $120.8 million, primarily related to the timing of accounts receivable collections and timing of accrued expenses. B. CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES Our significant investing activities during the year ended December 31, 2022 are highlighted below: • We paid cash for capital expenditures of $875.4 million. Additional details of our capital spending are included in the "Capital Expenditures" section below. • We paid cash for acquisitions (net of cash acquired) of $803.7 million, primarily funded by the issuance of the 5% Notes due 2032 (as defined below). • We received $170.4 million in proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment, primarily related to proceeds from sale and sale-leaseback transactions. See the Gain on disposal/write-down of property, plant and equipment, net section of Results of Operations for further details. C. CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES Our significant financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2022 included: • Net proceeds of $1,356.3 million primarily associated with borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility and the Accounts Receivable Securitization Program. • Payment of dividends in the amount of $724.4 million on our common stock. Part II CAPITAL EXPENDITURES We present two categories of capital expenditures: (1) Growth Investment Capital Expenditures and (2) Recurring Capital Expenditures with the following sub-categories: (i) Data Center; (ii) Real Estate; (iii) Innovation and Other (for Growth Investment Capital Expenditures only); and (iv) Non-Real Estate (for Recurring Capital Expenditures only). GROWTH INVESTMENT CAPITAL EXPENDITURES: • Data Center: Expenditures primarily related to investments in the construction of data center facilities (including the acquisition of land), as well as investments to drive revenue growth, expand capacity or achieve operational or cost efficiencies. • Real Estate: Expenditures primarily related to investments in land, buildings, building improvements, leasehold improvements and racking structures to grow our revenues, extend the useful life of an asset or achieve operational or cost efficiencies. • Innovation and Other: Discretionary capital expenditures for significant new products and services as well as computer hardware and software to support new products and services or to achieve operational or cost efficiencies. Restructuring and other transformation costs, including Project Matterhorn and Project Summit, and integration costs of acquisitions are also included. RECURRING CAPITAL EXPENDITURES: • Real Estate: Expenditures primarily related to the replacement of components of real estate assets such as buildings, building improvements, leasehold improvements and racking structures. • Non-Real Estate: Expenditures primarily related to the replacement of containers and shred bins, warehouse equipment, fixtures, computer hardware, or third-party or internally-developed software assets that support the maintenance of existing revenues or avoidance of an increase in costs. • Data Center: Expenditures related to the replacement of equivalent components and overall maintenance of existing data center assets. The following table presents our capital spend for 2022 and 2021 organized by the type of the spending as described above. Excluding capital expenditures associated with potential future acquisitions, we expect total capital expenditures of approximately $1,000.0 million for the year ending December 31, 2023. Of this, we expect our capital expenditures for growth investment to be approximately $855.0 million, and our recurring capital expenditures to approach $145.0 million. DIVIDENDS See Note 9 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for information on dividends. Part II FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND DEBT Financial instruments that potentially subject us to credit risk consist principally of cash and cash equivalents (including money market funds) and accounts receivable. The only significant concentration of liquid investments as of December 31, 2022 is related to cash and cash equivalents held in money market funds. See Note 2.g. to Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for information on our money market funds. Long-term debt as of December 31, 2022 is as follows (in thousands): See Note 7 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for additional information regarding our long-term debt. CREDIT AGREEMENT Our credit agreement (the "Credit Agreement") consists of a revolving credit facility (the "Revolving Credit Facility"), a term loan A (the "Term Loan A") and a term loan B (the "Term Loan B"). On March 18, 2022, we entered into an amendment to the Credit Agreement which included the following changes: (i) extended the maturity date of the Revolving Credit Facility and the Term Loan A from June 3, 2023 to March 18, 2027; (ii) refinanced and increased the borrowing capacity that IMI and certain of its United States and foreign subsidiaries are able to borrow under the Revolving Credit Facility from $1,750.0 million to $2,250.0 million; (iii) refinanced the existing Term Loan A with a new $250.0 million Term Loan A; and (iv) increased the net total lease adjusted leverage ratio maximum allowable from 6.5x to 7.0x and removed the net secured lease adjusted leverage ratio requirement. The Revolving Credit Facility enables IMI and certain of its subsidiaries to borrow in United States dollars and (subject to sublimits) Canadian dollars in an aggregate outstanding amount not to exceed $2,250.0 million. Additionally, the Credit Agreement permits us to incur incremental indebtedness thereunder by adding new term loans or revolving loans or by increasing the principal amount of any existing loans thereunder. The Revolving Credit Facility and the Term Loan A are scheduled to mature on March 18, 2027, at which point all obligations become due. On March 18, 2022, we borrowed the full amount of the Term Loan A of $250.0 million. The Term Loan A is to be paid in quarterly installments in an amount equal to $3.1 million per quarter. IMI’s wholly owned subsidiary, Iron Mountain Information Management, LLC ("IMIM"), is the borrower under the Term Loan B, which has a principal amount of $700.0 million. The Term Loan B, which matures on January 2, 2026, was issued at 99.75% of par. Principal payments on the Term Loan B are to be paid in quarterly installments of $1.8 million. Part II IMI and certain subsidiaries of IMI that represent the substantial majority of our operations in the United States, Canada and the United Kingdom guarantee all obligations under the Credit Agreement. The interest rate on borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility varies depending on our choice of interest rate benchmark and currency options, plus an applicable margin, which varies based on our consolidated leverage ratio. The Term Loan A bears interest at the Secured Overnight Financing Rate ("SOFR") plus a credit spread adjustment of 0.1% plus 1.75%. The Term Loan B bears interest at the London Inter-Bank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") plus 1.75%. Additionally, the Credit Agreement requires the payment of a commitment fee on the unused portion of the Revolving Credit Facility, which fee ranges from 0.2% to 0.3% based on our consolidated leverage ratio. As of December 31, 2022, we had $1,072.2 million, $240.6 million and $666.1 million outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility, the Term Loan A and Term Loan B, respectively. At December 31, 2022, we had various outstanding letters of credit totaling $3.8 million under the Revolving Credit Facility. The remaining amount available for borrowing under the Revolving Credit Facility as of December 31, 2022, which is based on IMI’s leverage ratio, the last 12 months' earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization and rent expense ("EBITDAR"), other adjustments as defined in the Credit Agreement and current external debt, was $1,174.0 million (which amount represents the maximum availability as of such date). Available borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility are subject to compliance with our indenture covenants as discussed below. The weighted average interest rate in effect under the Revolving Credit Facility as of December 31, 2022 was 6.2%. The interest rates in effect under the Term Loan A and the Term Loan B as of December 31, 2022 were 6.2% and 4.8%, respectively. VIRGINIA CREDIT AGREEMENT On October 31, 2022, Iron Mountain Data Centers Virginia 4/5 Subsidiary, LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of Iron Mountain Data Centers Virginia 4/5 JV, LP, entered into a credit agreement (the "Virginia Credit Agreement") in order to finance the construction of two data center facilities in Virginia. The Virginia Credit Agreement consists of a term loan and a letter of credit facility with the first borrowing under the term loan expected to occur in the third quarter of 2023. Borrowings under the Virginia Credit Agreement are guaranteed by Iron Mountain Data Centers Virginia 4/5 JV, LP, a special purpose vehicle, and not by IMI or any other subsidiary of IMI. We have the option to borrow, in the form of term loans, an aggregate outstanding amount not to exceed approximately $205.0 million. At December 31, 2022, we had approximately $6.4 million in outstanding letters of credit under the Virginia Credit Agreement. The Virginia Credit Agreement requires the payment of a commitment fee on any unused commitments at a rate of 0.4875%. We have the option to select between various base rates for any given borrowing under the Virginia Credit Agreement, and the interest rate and applicable margin on such borrowings vary depending on the chosen base rate. The Virginia Credit Agreement is scheduled to mature on October 31, 2025, at which point all obligations will become due. We have two one-year options that allow us to extend the maturity date beyond the October 31, 2025 expiration date, subject to the conditions specified in the Virginia Credit Agreement, including the lender's consent. As of December 31, 2022, we have no outstanding borrowings under the Virginia Credit Agreement. AUSTRALIAN DOLLAR TERM LOAN Iron Mountain Australia Group Pty, Ltd. ("IM Australia"), a wholly owned subsidiary of IMI, has an AUD term loan with an original principal balance of 350.0 million Australian dollars ("AUD Term Loan"). All indebtedness associated with the AUD Term Loan was issued at 99% of par. Principal payments on the AUD Term Loan are to be paid in quarterly installments in an aggregate amount of 7.7 million Australian dollars per year. On March 18, 2022, IM Australia amended its AUD Term Loan to (i) extend the maturity date from September 22, 2022 to September 30, 2026 and (ii) decrease the interest rate from BBSY (an Australian benchmark variable interest rate) plus 3.875% to BBSY plus 3.625%. The interest rate in effect under the AUD Term Loan was 6.9% as of December 31, 2022. UK BILATERAL REVOLVING CREDIT FACILITY Iron Mountain (UK) PLC ("IM UK") and Iron Mountain (UK) Data Centre Limited (collectively, the "UK Borrowers") have a 140.0 million British pounds sterling Revolving Credit Facility (the "UK Bilateral Revolving Credit Facility") with Barclays Bank PLC. The maximum amount permitted to be borrowed under the UK Bilateral Revolving Credit Facility is 140.0 million British pounds sterling, which was fully drawn as of December 31, 2022. We have the option to request additional commitments of up to 125.0 million British pounds sterling, subject to the conditions specified in the UK Bilateral Revolving Credit Facility. The UK Bilateral Revolving Credit Facility is secured by certain properties in the United Kingdom. IMI and subsidiaries of IMI that represent the substantial majority of our operations in the United States and the United Kingdom guarantee all obligations under the UK Revolving Credit Bilateral Facility. The UK Bilateral Revolving Credit Facility was previously scheduled to mature on September 24, 2023, at which point all obligations were to become due, with the option to extend the maturity date for an additional year, subject to the conditions specified in the UK Bilateral Revolving Credit Facility, including the lender’s consent. On September 22, 2022, the UK Borrowers exercised their option to extend the maturity date from September 24, 2023 to September 24, 2024. The interest rate in effect under the UK Bilateral Revolving Credit Facility was 5.5% as of December 31, 2022. Part II ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE SECURITIZATION PROGRAM We participate in an accounts receivable securitization program (the "Accounts Receivable Securitization Program") involving several of our wholly owned subsidiaries and certain financial institutions. Under the Accounts Receivable Securitization Program, certain of our subsidiaries sell substantially all of their United States accounts receivable balances to our wholly owned special purpose entities, Iron Mountain Receivables QRS, LLC and Iron Mountain Receivables TRS, LLC (the "Accounts Receivable Securitization Special Purpose Subsidiaries"). The Accounts Receivable Securitization Special Purpose Subsidiaries use the accounts receivable balances to collateralize loans obtained from certain financial institutions. The Accounts Receivable Securitization Special Purpose Subsidiaries are consolidated subsidiaries of IMI. IMIM retains the responsibility of servicing the accounts receivable balances pledged as collateral for the Accounts Receivable Securitization Program and IMI provides a performance guaranty. The maximum availability allowed is limited by eligible accounts receivable, as defined under the terms of the Accounts Receivable Securitization Program. On June 29, 2022, we amended the Accounts Receivable Securitization Program to (i) increase the maximum borrowing capacity from $300.0 million to $325.0 million, with an option to increase the borrowing capacity to $400.0 million, (ii) change the interest rate under Accounts Receivable Securitization Program from LIBOR plus 1.0% to SOFR plus 0.95%, with a credit spread adjustment of 0.10% and (iii) extend the maturity date from July 1, 2023 to July 1, 2025, at which point all obligations become due. As of December 31, 2022, the maximum availability allowed and amount outstanding under the Accounts Receivable Securitization Program were $325.0 million and $314.7 million, respectively. Commitment fees at a rate of 35 basis points are charged on amounts made available but not borrowed under the Accounts Receivable Securitization Program. CASH POOLING Certain of our subsidiaries participate in cash pooling arrangements (the "Cash Pools") to help manage global liquidity requirements. We utilize the following Cash Pools: (i) two Cash Pools with Bank Mendes Gans, an independently operated wholly owned subsidiary of ING Group, one of which we use to manage global liquidity requirements for our QRSs and the other for our TRSs; (ii) two Cash Pools with JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. ("JPM"), one of which we use to manage liquidity requirements for our QRSs in the Asia Pacific region and the other for our TRSs in the Asia Pacific region; and (iii) two Cash Pools with JPM, which we entered into in the third quarter of 2022, one of which we use to manage liquidity requirements for our QRSs in the Europe, Middle East, and Africa regions and the other for our TRSs in the Europe, Middle East, and Africa regions. Under each of the Cash Pools, cash deposited by participating subsidiaries with certain financial institutions is pledged as security against the debit balances of other participating subsidiaries with legal rights of offset provided to the financial institutions, and, therefore, such amounts are presented in our Consolidated Balance Sheets on a net basis. Each subsidiary receives interest on the cash balances held on deposit or pays interest on its debit balances based on an applicable rate as defined in the Cash Pools. LETTERS OF CREDIT As of December 31, 2022, we had outstanding letters of credit totaling $39.8 million, of which $3.8 million reduce our borrowing capacity under the Revolving Credit Facility (as described above). The letters of credit expire at various dates between January 2023 and March 2025. DEBT COVENANTS The Credit Agreement, our bond indentures and other agreements governing our indebtedness contain certain restrictive financial and operating covenants, including covenants that restrict our ability to complete acquisitions, pay cash dividends, incur indebtedness, make investments, sell assets and take other specified corporate actions. The covenants do not contain a rating trigger. Therefore, a change in our debt rating would not trigger a default under the Credit Agreement, our bond indentures or other agreements governing our indebtedness. The Credit Agreement requires that we satisfy a net total lease adjusted leverage ratio and a fixed charge coverage ratio on a quarterly basis and our bond indentures require that, among other things, we satisfy a leverage ratio (not lease adjusted) or a fixed charge coverage ratio (not lease adjusted), as a condition to taking actions such as paying dividends and incurring indebtedness. Part II The Credit Agreement uses EBITDAR-based calculations and the bond indentures use earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ("EBITDA") based calculations as the primary measures of financial performance for purposes of calculating leverage and fixed charge coverage ratios. The EBITDAR- and EBITDA-based leverage calculations include our consolidated subsidiaries, other than those we have designated as "Unrestricted Subsidiaries" as defined in the Credit Agreement and bond indentures. Generally, the Credit Agreement and the bond indentures use a trailing four fiscal quarter basis for purposes of the relevant calculations and require certain adjustments and exclusions for purposes of those calculations, which make the calculation of financial performance for purposes of those calculations under the Credit Agreement and bond indentures not directly comparable to Adjusted EBITDA as presented herein. These adjustments can be significant. For example, the calculation of financial performance under the Credit Agreement and certain of our bond indentures includes (subject to specified exceptions and caps) adjustments for non-cash charges and for expected benefits associated with (i) completed acquisitions, (ii) certain executed lease agreements associated with our data center business that have yet to commence and (iii) restructuring and other strategic initiatives. The calculation of financial performance under our other bond indentures includes, for example, adjustments for non-cash charges and for expected benefits associated with (i) completed acquisitions, and (ii) events that are extraordinary, unusual or non-recurring. Our leverage and fixed charge coverage ratios under the Credit Agreement as of December 31, 2022 are as follows: We are in compliance with our leverage and fixed charge coverage ratios under the Credit Agreement, our bond indentures and other agreements governing our indebtedness as of December 31, 2022. Noncompliance with these leverage and fixed charge coverage ratios would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and liquidity. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________ Our ability to pay interest on or to refinance our indebtedness depends on our future performance, working capital levels and capital structure, which are subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors which may be beyond our control. There can be no assurance that we will generate sufficient cash flow from our operations or that future financings will be available on acceptable terms or in amounts sufficient to enable us to service or refinance our indebtedness or to make necessary capital expenditures. DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS INTEREST RATE SWAP AGREEMENTS In November 2022, we entered into a forward-starting interest rate swap agreement to limit our exposure to changes in interest rates on future borrowings under our Virginia Credit Agreement. The forward-starting interest rate swap agreement commences in July 2023 and expires in October 2025 (the "October 2025 Interest Rate Swap Agreement"). The October 2025 Interest Rate Swap Agreement has an initial notional value of $4.8 million, which is contracted to increase in monthly increments beginning in August 2023 to June 2025 to a total notional value of $153.8 million. Under the October 2025 Interest Rate Swap Agreement, we will receive variable rate interest payments based upon SOFR, in exchange for the payment of a fixed interest rate as specified in the October 2025 Interest Rate Swap Agreement. In March 2018, we entered into interest rate swap agreements to limit our exposure to changes in interest rates on a portion of our floating rate indebtedness. These swap agreements expired in March 2022. In July 2019, we entered into forward-starting interest rate swap agreements to limit our exposure to changes in interest rates on a portion of our floating rate indebtedness. These forward-starting interest rate swap agreements commenced in March 2022. As of December 31, 2022, we have $350.0 million in notional value outstanding on the interest rate swap agreements, which expire in March 2024 (the "March 2024 Interest Rate Swap Agreements"). Under the March 2024 Interest Rate Swap Agreements, we receive variable rate interest payments associated with the notional amount of each interest rate swap, based upon one-month LIBOR, in exchange for the payment of fixed interest rates as specified in the March 2024 Interest Rate Swap Agreements. We have designated each of the interest rate swap agreements described above as cash flow hedges. CROSS-CURRENCY SWAP AGREEMENTS We enter into cross-currency swap agreements to hedge the variability of exchange rate impacts between the United States dollar and the Euro. The cross-currency swap agreements are designated as a hedge of net investment against certain of our Euro denominated subsidiaries and require an exchange of the notional amounts at maturity. Part II In August 2019, we entered into cross-currency swap agreements whereby we notionally exchanged $110.0 million at an interest rate of 6.0% for approximately 99.1 million Euros at a weighted average interest rate of approximately 3.65%. These cross-currency swap agreements expire in August 2023. In October 2022, one of these cross-currency swap agreements was amended to increase the notional value exchanged from approximately 49.5 million Euros at an interest rate of 3.6% to approximately 55.5 million Euros at an interest rate of (9.5%), resulting in a total notional value exchanged of approximately 105.0 million Euros at a weighted average interest rate of approximately (3.3%). In September 2020, we entered into cross-currency swap agreements whereby we notionally exchanged approximately $359.2 million at an interest rate of 4.5% for 300.0 million Euros at a weighted average interest rate of approximately 3.4%. These cross-currency swap agreements expire in February 2026. In May 2022, these cross-currency swaps were amended to increase the notional value exchanged to approximately 340.5 million Euros at a weighted average interest rate of approximately 1.2%. In October 2022, these cross-currency swaps were further amended to increase the notional value exchanged to approximately 362.1 million Euros at a weighted average interest rate of approximately 0.2%. See Note 6 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for additional information on our derivative instruments. ACQUISITIONS See Note 3 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for information regarding our 2022 acquisitions. ITRENEW On January 25, 2022, in order to expand our ALM operations, we acquired an approximately 80% interest in ITRenew, at an agreed upon purchase price of $725.0 million, subject to certain working capital adjustments at, and subsequent to, the closing (the "ITRenew Transaction"). At closing, we paid approximately $748.8 million and acquired approximately $30.7 million of cash on hand, for a net purchase price of approximately $718.1 million for the ITRenew Transaction. The acquisition agreement provides us the option to purchase, and provides the shareholders of ITRenew the option to sell, the remaining approximately 20% interest in ITRenew as follows: (i) approximately 16% on or after the second anniversary of the ITRenew Transaction and (ii) approximately 4% on or after the third anniversary of the ITRenew Transaction (collectively, the "Remaining Interests"). The total payments for the Remaining Interests, based on the achievement of certain targeted performance metrics, will be no less than $200.0 million and no more than $531.0 million (the "Deferred Purchase Obligation"). From January 25, 2022, we consolidate 100% of the revenues and expenses associated with this business. The Deferred Purchase Obligation is reflected as a long-term liability in our Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 2022, and, accordingly, we have not reflected any non-controlling interests associated with the ITRenew Transaction as the Remaining Interests have non-substantive equity interest rights. Subsequent increases or decreases in the fair value estimate of the Deferred Purchase Obligation are included as a component of Other (income) expense, net in our Consolidated Statements of Operations until the Deferred Purchase Obligation is settled or paid. XDATA PROPERTIES On October 5, 2022, in order to further expand our data center operations in Europe, we completed the acquisition of XData Properties S.L.U., a data center colocation space and solutions provider with a data center in Spain, which we accounted for as an asset acquisition, for (i) cash consideration of 78.9 million Euros (or approximately $78.2 million, based upon the exchange rate between the Euro and the United States dollar on the closing date of this acquisition), subject to adjustments, and (ii) up to 10.0 million Euros (or approximately $9.9 million, based upon the exchange rate between the Euro and the United States dollar on the closing date of this acquisition) of additional consideration, payable based on the achievement of certain power connection milestones through December 2024. OTHER 2022 ACQUISITIONS In addition to the transactions noted above, during the year ended December 31, 2022, in order to enhance our existing operations in Morocco and expand our fine arts operations in China - Hong Kong S.A.R. and North America, we completed the acquisition of a records management company, a fine arts company and the assets of a second fine arts company, for a total combined purchase price of approximately $11.6 million, including deferred purchase obligations, purchase price holdbacks and other deferred payments of approximately $4.6 million. Part II INVESTMENTS See Note 5 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for information regarding our joint ventures. CLUTTER JOINT VENTURE In February 2022, the joint venture formed by MakeSpace Labs, Inc. and us (the "MakeSpace JV") entered into an agreement with Clutter, Inc. ("Clutter") pursuant to which the equityholders of the MakeSpace JV contributed their ownership interests in the MakeSpace JV and Clutter’s shareholders contributed their ownership interests in Clutter to create a newly formed venture (the "Clutter JV"). In exchange for our 49.99% interest in the MakeSpace JV, we received an approximate 27% interest in the Clutter JV (the "Clutter Transaction"). As a result of the Clutter Transaction, we recognized a gain related to our contributed interest in the MakeSpace JV of approximately $35.8 million, which was recorded to Other, net, a component of Other expense (income), net during the year ended December 31, 2022. WEB WERKS JOINT VENTURE In April 2021, we closed on an agreement to form a joint venture (the "Web Werks JV") with the shareholders of Web Werks India Private Limited, a colocation data center provider in India. In connection with the formation of the Web Werks JV, we made an initial investment of approximately 3,750.0 million Indian rupees (or approximately $50.1 million, based upon the exchange rate between the United States dollar and Indian rupee on the closing date of the initial investment) in exchange for a noncontrolling interest in the form of convertible preference shares in the Web Werks JV. In August 2022, we made an additional investment of approximately 3,750.0 million Indian rupees (or approximately $46.1 million, based upon the exchange rate between the United States dollar and Indian rupee on the date of the additional investment) in exchange for an additional interest in the form of convertible preference shares in the Web Werks JV (the "Second Web Werks JV Investment"). Under the terms of the Web Werks JV shareholder agreement, we are required to make an additional investment of approximately 3,750.0 million Indian rupees by May 2023. Subsequent to the Second Web Werks JV Investment, the shareholders of Web Werks retained control of the financial and operating decisions of the Web Werks JV through their control of Web Werks JV's board of directors. As we do not control the board of directors or the key management decisions of the Web Werks JV, we account for our interest in the Web Werks JV as an equity method investment. JOINT VENTURE SUMMARY The following joint ventures are accounted for as equity method investments and are presented as a component of Other within Other assets, net in our Consolidated Balance Sheet. The carrying values and equity interests in our joint ventures at December 31, 2022 are as follows (in thousands): NET OPERATING LOSSES At December 31, 2022, we have federal net operating loss carryforwards of $63.5 million which can be carried forward indefinitely, of which $57.1 million is expected to be realized to reduce future federal taxable income. We have assets for foreign net operating losses of $81.9 million, with various expiration dates (and in some cases no expiration date), subject to a valuation allowance of approximately 56.0%. Part II