********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

We face many risks. If any of the events or circumstances described below actually occur, we and our businesses, financial condition or results of operations could suffer, and the trading price of our debt or equity securities could decline. Our current and potential investors should consider the following risks and the information contained under the heading “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” before deciding to invest in our securities. BUSINESS RISKS Our customers may shift from paper and tape storage to alternative technologies that require less physical space. We derive most of our revenues from rental fees for the storage of physical records and computer backup tapes and from storage related services. Storage volume and/or demand for our traditional storage related services may decline as our customers adopt alternative storage technologies, which require significantly less space than traditional physical records and tape storage. Our customers’ shift from paper and tape storage to alternative technologies may accelerate as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. While volumes in our Global RIM Business segment were relatively steady in 2020 and we expect them to remain relatively consistent in the near term, we can provide no assurance that our customers will continue to store most or a portion of their records as paper documents or as tapes, or that the paper documents or tapes they do store with us will require our storage related services at the same levels as they have in the past. A significant shift by our customers to storage of data through non-paper or non-tape-based technologies, whether now existing or developed in the future, could adversely affect our businesses. In addition, the digitization of records may shift our revenue mix from the more predictable storage revenue to service revenue, which is inherently more volatile. The COVID-19 pandemic and its resulting economic impact may materially adversely affect our business, operations, financial results and liquidity. In March 2020, the World Health Organization declared a novel strain of coronavirus (“COVID-19”) a pandemic. This resulted in U.S. federal, state and local and foreign governments and private entities mandating various restrictions, including travel restrictions, restrictions on public gatherings and stay-at-home orders and advisories. In response, we temporarily closed certain of our offices and facilities across the world, implemented certain travel restrictions for our employees and transitioned many of our employees to remote working arrangements, with some of our operations being run with limited personnel on site. In addition, many of our customers have implemented stay-at-home measures and other restrictions that reduce the demand for our routine services. The preventative and protective actions that governments have ordered, or we or our customers have implemented, have resulted in a period of reduced service operations and business disruption for us, our customers and other third parties with which we do business. The COVID-19 pandemic has also had a substantial adverse impact on the global economy. While we do not currently believe that the implications of the COVID-19 pandemic have had a material adverse impact on our ability to collect our accounts receivable, global economic conditions related to the COVID-19 pandemic may have a material adverse effect on our customers, which could impact our future ability to collect our accounts receivable. In addition, if the COVID-19 pandemic and resulting recessionary conditions continue to disrupt the credit and financial markets or impact our credit ratings, our ability to access capital on favorable terms, if at all, could be adversely affected, which could have an adverse effect on our liquidity needs. Due to the unpredictable and rapidly changing nature of the COVID-19 pandemic and the resulting economic distress, the extent to which it continues to impact us will depend on numerous factors that we are currently unable to predict, including: the duration and severity of the COVID-19 pandemic; the development, distribution and efficacy of any COVID-19 vaccines; the duration or re-emergence of outbreaks; the continuation, resumption, and/or expansion of restrictions imposed by governments and businesses; the impact of the pandemic on economic activity and any resulting recessionary conditions, and the strength and duration of any economic recovery; the health of our workforce; our ability to meet staffing needs for critical functions; and the impact on our customers, suppliers, vendors, and other business partners, and their respective financial condition. Furthermore, when the COVID-19 pandemic has ended, our ability to resume normal business operations may be delayed, and actions we have taken to manage costs may make it more challenging to meet any increased customer demand following the pandemic. Failure to execute our strategic growth plan may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. As part of our strategic growth plan, we expect to invest in our existing businesses, including records and information management storage and services businesses in our higher-growth markets, data centers and adjacent businesses, and in new businesses, business strategies, products, services, technologies and geographies, and we may selectively divest certain businesses. These initiatives may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including: • our inability to execute on our plan to incorporate the digitization of our customers’ records and new digital information technologies into our offerings; • failure to achieve satisfactory returns on new product offerings, acquired companies, joint ventures, growth initiatives, or other investments, particularly in markets where we do not currently operate or have a substantial presence; • our inability to identify suitable companies to acquire, invest in or partner with; • our inability to complete acquisitions or investments on satisfactory terms; • our inability to structure acquisitions or investments in a manner that complies with our debt covenants and is consistent with our leverage ratio goals; Part I • increased demands on our management, operating systems, internal controls and financial and physical resources and, if necessary, our inability to successfully expand our infrastructure; • incurring additional debt necessary to acquire suitable companies or make other growth investments if we are unable to pay the purchase price or make the investment out of working capital or the issuance of our common stock or other equity securities; • our inability to manage the budgeting, forecasting and other process control issues presented by future growth, particularly with respect to operations in countries outside of the United States or in new lines of business; • insufficient revenues to offset expenses and liabilities associated with new investments; and • our inability to attract, develop and retain skilled employees to lead and support our strategic growth plan, particularly in new businesses, technologies, products or offerings outside our core competencies. Our data center expansion in particular requires significant capital commitments. Our data center expansion and other new ventures are inherently risky and we can provide no assurance that such strategies and offerings will be successful in achieving the desired returns within a reasonable timeframe, if at all, and that they will not adversely affect our business, reputation, financial condition, and operating results. We face competition from other companies, some of which possess substantial resources, in our efforts to grow our data center, international and complementary businesses. As a result, we may be unable to acquire or invest in, or we may pay a premium purchase price for, data centers, technology and higher-growth markets and adjacent businesses that support our strategic growth plan, which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The foregoing risks may be exacerbated as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. As stored records and tapes become less active our service revenue growth and profitability from related services may decline. Our Records Management and Data Management service revenue growth is being negatively impacted by declining activity rates as stored records and tapes are becoming less active and more archival, and these activity levels were further negatively impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. The amount of information available to customers digitally or in their own information systems has been steadily increasing in recent years, and we believe this trend continues to accelerate. As a result, our customers are less likely than they have been in the past to retrieve records and rotate tapes, thereby reducing their activity levels. At the same time, many of our costs related to records and tape related services remain fixed. In addition, our reputation for providing secure information storage is critical to our success, and actions to manage cost structure, such as outsourcing certain transportation, security or other functions, could negatively impact our reputation and adversely affect our business. Ultimately, if we are unable to appropriately align our cost structure with decreased levels of service activity, our operating results could be adversely affected. Our program to simplify our global structure may not be successful. In October 2019, we announced Project Summit, a global program designed to better position us for future growth and achievement of our strategic objectives. Project Summit focuses on simplifying our global records and information management structure, streamlining our managerial structure and leveraging our global and regional customer facing resources. We also plan to implement systems and process changes designed to make our organization more agile and dynamic, streamline our organization and reallocate our resources to better align with our strategic goals. We expect the total program benefits associated with Project Summit, which we have expanded since our initial announcement, to be fully realized exiting 2021. However, we may not be able to realize the full amount of our expected improvements to Adjusted EBITDA in a timely manner, or at all, and the costs associated with Project Summit may exceed our expectations. In addition, this program may yield unintended consequences, such as attrition beyond our intended reduction in force, distraction of our employees and our anticipated systems and process changes may not work as expected and may create additional risks to our business. As a result, Project Summit could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. Our future growth depends in part upon our ability to continue to effectively manage and execute on revenue management. Over the past several years, our organic revenue growth has been positively impacted by our ability to effectively introduce, expand and monitor revenue management initially in our more established markets, and subsequently in our higher-growth markets. If we are not able to continue and effectively manage pricing, our results of operations could be adversely affected and we may not be able to execute on our strategic growth plan. Changes in customer behavior with respect to destruction of records stored with us could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations . Over the past year, our destruction rates, as a percentage of records stored with us, have fluctuated. When destruction rates for records stored with us increase, it has a positive impact on our service revenues in the year of destruction but negatively impacts our longer term storage revenues, adversely affecting our financial condition and results of operations. Part I We and our customers are subject to laws and governmental regulations relating to data privacy and cybersecurity and our customers’ demands in this area are increasing. This may cause us to incur significant expenses and non-compliance with such regulations and demands could harm our business. We are subject to numerous U.S. federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations relating to data privacy and cybersecurity. These regulations are complex, change frequently and have tended to become more stringent over time. There are also a number of legislative proposals pending before the U.S. Congress, various state legislative bodies and foreign governments concerning data protection that could affect us. In addition, a growing number of U.S. and foreign legislative and regulatory bodies have adopted consumer notification and other requirements if consumer information is accessed by unauthorized persons and additional regulations regarding the use, access, accuracy and security of such information are possible. In the U.S., we are subject to various state laws which provide for disparate notification regimes. In addition, as a result of the continued emphasis on information security and instances in which personal information has been compromised, our customers are requesting that we take increasingly sophisticated measures to enhance security and comply with data privacy regulations, and that we assume higher liability under our contracts. We devote substantial resources, and may in the future have to devote significant additional resources, to facilitate compliance with laws and regulations, our customers’ data privacy and security demands, and to investigate, defend or remedy actual or alleged violations or breaches. Any failure by us to comply with, or remedy any violations or breaches of, laws and regulations or customer requirements could result in the curtailment of certain of our operations, the imposition of fines and penalties, liability resulting from litigation, restrictions on our ability to carry on or expand our operations, significant costs and expenses and reputational harm. For example, we have experienced incidents in which customers’ information has been lost, and we have been informed by customers that some of the incidents involved the loss of personal information, resulting in monetary costs to those customers for which we have provided reimbursement. It is difficult to predict the impact on our business if we were subject to allegations of having violated existing laws or regulations. Attacks on our internal IT systems could damage our reputation and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Our reputation for providing secure information storage to customers is critical to the success of our business. Our reputation or brand, and specifically, the trust our customers place in us, could be negatively impacted in the event of perceived or actual failures by us to store information securely. Although we seek to prevent and detect attempts by unauthorized users to gain access to our IT systems, our IT and network infrastructure may be vulnerable to attacks by hackers or breaches due to employee error or other disruptions. Moreover, until we have migrated businesses we acquire onto our IT systems, we may face additional risks because of the continued use of predecessor IT systems. We have outsourced, and expect to continue to outsource, certain support services to third parties, which may subject our IT and other sensitive information to additional risk. In addition, the continuation of remote work arrangements or operating with limited personnel as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic could increase our cybersecurity risks. A successful breach of the security of our IT systems could lead to theft or misuse of our customers’ proprietary or confidential information and result in third party claims against us and reputational harm. Damage to our reputation could make us less competitive, which could negatively impact our business, financial condition and results of operations. Complying with fire and safety standards may result in significant expense. As of December 31, 2020, we operated approximately 1,450 facilities worldwide, including more than 600 in the United States. Many of these facilities were built and outfitted by third parties and added to our real estate portfolio as part of acquisitions. Some of these facilities contain fire suppression and safety features that are different from our current specifications and current standards for new facilities, although we believe all of our facilities were constructed, in all material respects, in compliance with applicable laws and regulations in effect at the time of their construction or outfitting. In some instances, local authorities may take the position that our fire suppression and safety features in a particular facility are insufficient and require additional measures that may involve considerable expense to us. In addition, where we determine that the fire suppression and safety features of a facility require improvement, we will develop and implement a plan to remediate the issue, although implementation may require an extended period to complete. A significant aspect of the integration of businesses we have acquired or may acquire is the process of making investments in the acquired facilities to conform such facilities to our standards of operations. This process is complex and time-consuming. If additional fire safety and suppression measures beyond our current operating plan were required at a large number of our facilities, the expense required for compliance could negatively impact our business, financial condition or results of operations. If we fail to meet our commitment to transition to more renewable and sustainable sources of energy, it may negatively impact our ability to attract and retain customers, employees and investors who focus on this commitment. Furthermore, changes to environmental laws and standards may increase the cost to operate some of our businesses. This could impact our results of operations and the trading of our stock. We have made a commitment to prioritize sustainable energy practices, reduce our carbon footprint and transition to more renewable and sustainable sources of energy, particularly in our data center business. We have made progress towards reducing our carbon footprint, but if we are not successful in continuing this reduction or if our customers, employees and investors are not satisfied with our sustainability efforts, it may negatively impact our ability to attract and retain customers, employees and investors who focus on this commitment. This could negatively impact our results of operations and the trading of our stock. Part I Furthermore, changes in environmental laws in any jurisdiction in which we operate could increase compliance costs or impose limitations on our operations. For example, our emergency generators at our data centers are subject to regulations and permit requirements governing air pollutants, and the heating, ventilation and air conditioning and fire suppression systems at some of our data centers and data management locations may include ozone-depleting substances that are subject to regulation. While environmental regulations do not normally impose material costs upon operations at our facilities, unexpected events, equipment malfunctions, human error and changes in law or regulations, among other factors, could result in unexpected costs, which could be material. Failure to successfully integrate acquired businesses could negatively impact our balance sheet and results of operations. Strategic acquisitions are an important element of our growth strategy and the success of any acquisition we make depends in part on our ability to integrate the acquired business and realize anticipated synergies. The process of integrating acquired businesses, particularly in new markets, may involve unforeseen difficulties and may require a disproportionate amount of our management’s attention and our financial and other resources. For example, the success of our significant acquisitions depends, in large part, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits, including cost savings from combining the acquired businesses with ours. To realize these anticipated benefits, we must be able to successfully integrate our business and the acquired businesses, and this integration is complex and time-consuming. We may encounter challenges in the integration process including the following: • challenges and difficulties associated with managing our larger, more complex, company; • conforming standards, controls, procedures and policies, business cultures and compensation and benefits structures between the two businesses; • consolidating corporate and administrative infrastructures; • coordinating geographically dispersed organizations; • potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen expenses or delays associated with an acquisition; and • our ability to deliver on our strategy going forward. Further, our acquisitions subject us to liabilities (including tax liabilities) that may exist at an acquired company, some of which may be unknown. Although we and our advisors conduct due diligence on the operations of businesses we acquire, there can be no guarantee that we are aware of all liabilities of an acquired company. These liabilities, and any additional risks and uncertainties related to an acquired company not known to us or that we may deem immaterial or unlikely to occur at the time of the acquisition, could negatively impact our future business, financial condition and results of operations. We can give no assurance that we will ultimately be able to effectively integrate and manage the operations of any acquired business or realize anticipated synergies. The failure to successfully integrate the cultures, operating systems, procedures and information technologies of an acquired business could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our customer contracts may not always limit our liability and may sometimes contain terms that could lead to disputes in contract interpretation. Our customer contracts typically contain provisions limiting our liability regarding the loss or destruction of, or damage to, records, information, or other items stored with us. Our liability for physical storage is often limited to a nominal fixed amount per item or unit of storage (such as per cubic foot) and our liability for digital solutions, data center, destruction and other services unrelated to records, information and other items stored with us is often limited to a percentage of annual revenue under the contract; however, some of our contracts with large customers and some of the contracts assumed in our acquisitions contain no such limits or contain higher limits. We can provide no assurance that our limitation of liability provisions will be enforceable in all instances or, if enforceable, that they would otherwise protect us from liability. In addition to provisions limiting our liability, our customer contracts generally include a schedule setting forth the majority of the customer-specific terms, including storage rental and related service pricing and service delivery terms. Our customers may dispute the interpretation of various provisions in their contracts. In the past, we have had relatively few disputes with our customers regarding the terms of their customer contracts, and most disputes to date have not been material, but we can provide no assurance that we will not have material disputes in the future. Moreover, as we expand our operations in digital solutions and storage of fine arts and other valuable items and respond to customer demands for higher limitation of liability as a result of regulatory changes, our exposure to contracts with higher or no limitations of liability and disputes with customers over the interpretation of their contracts may increase. Although we maintain a comprehensive insurance program, we can provide no assurance that we will be able to maintain insurance policies on acceptable terms or with high enough coverage amounts to cover losses to us in connection with customer contract disputes. Part I International operations may pose unique risks. As of December 31, 2020, we operated in 55 countries outside the United States. Our international operations account for a significant portion of our overall operations, and as part of our growth strategy, we expect its share to increase as we continue to acquire or invest in businesses in select foreign markets, including countries where we do not currently operate. International operations are subject to numerous risks, including: • the impact of foreign government regulations and United States regulations that apply to us in foreign countries where we operate; in particular, we are subject to United States and foreign anti-corruption laws, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the United Kingdom Bribery Act, and, although we have implemented internal controls, policies and procedures and training to deter prohibited practices, our employees, partners, contractors or agents may violate or circumvent such policies and the law; • the volatility of certain foreign economies in which we operate; • political uncertainties and changes in the global political climate or other global events, such as the recent trade wars involving the U.S. or global pandemics, which may impose restrictions on, or create additional risk in relation to, global operations, which risks may become more pronounced as we consolidate operations across countries and need to move records and data across borders; • unforeseen liabilities, particularly within acquired businesses; • costs and difficulties associated with managing international operations of varying sizes and scale, including operations involving cross-border service offerings; • our operations in the United Kingdom and the European Union may be adversely affected by the exit from the European Union (Brexit) by the United Kingdom, and the associated uncertainty; • the risk that business partners upon whom we depend for technical assistance or management and acquisition expertise in some markets outside of the United States will not perform as expected; • difficulties attracting and retaining local management and key employees to operate our business in certain countries; and • cultural differences and differences in business practices and operating standards, as well as risks and challenges in expanding into countries where we have no prior operational experience. Our use of joint ventures could expose us to additional risks and liabilities, including our reliance on joint venture partners that may have economic and business interests that are inconsistent with our business interests, our lack of sole decision-making authority, and disputes between us and our joint venture partners. As part of our growth strategy, particularly in connection with our international and data center expansion, we currently, and may in the future, co-invest with third parties using joint ventures. These joint ventures can result in our holding non-controlling interests in, or having shared responsibility for managing the affairs of, a property or portfolio of properties, business, partnership, joint venture or other entity. As a result, in connection with our pursuit or entrance into any such joint venture, we may be subject to additional risks, including: • our ability to sell our interests in the joint venture may be limited by the joint venture agreement; • our ability to grow our storage volume when we rely on non-controlling interests in joint ventures for this growth; • we may not have the right to exercise sole decision-making authority regarding the properties, business, partnership, joint venture or other entity; • if our partners become bankrupt or fail to fund their share of required capital contributions, we may choose or be required to contribute such capital; • our partners may have economic, tax or other interests or goals that are inconsistent with our interests or goals, and that could affect our ability to negotiate satisfactory joint venture terms, to operate the property or business or maintain our qualification for taxation as a REIT; • our partners may be subject to different laws or regulations than us, or may be structured differently than us for tax purposes, which could create conflicts of interest and/or affect our ability to maintain our qualification for taxation as a REIT; • our partners may take actions that are not within our control, which could require us to dispose of the joint venture asset, transfer it to a taxable REIT subsidiary (“TRS”) in order for us to maintain our qualification for taxation as a REIT, or purchase such partner’s interests or assets at an above-market price; • we may agree to restrictions on our ability to expand our business in certain geographies independently or with other partners; • disputes between us and our partners may result in litigation or arbitration that would increase our expenses and prevent our management from focusing their time and effort on our day-to-day business; and • we may in certain circumstances be liable for the actions of our third-party partners or guarantee all or a portion of the joint venture’s liabilities, which may require us to pay an amount greater than our investment in the joint venture. Each of these factors may result in returns on these investments being less than we expect or in losses, and our financial and operating results may be adversely affected. Part I Significant costs or disruptions at our data centers could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Since 2017, we have substantially expanded our Global Data Center Business and we expect to continue to grow our Global Data Center Business. For example, we paid an aggregate cash purchase price of over $1.7 billion for data center businesses we acquired in 2017 and 2018 and incurred other costs associated with the development of real estate to support this business. Our Global Data Center Business depends on providing customers with highly reliable facilities, power infrastructure and operations solutions, and we will need to retain and hire qualified personnel to manage our data centers. Service interruptions or significant equipment damage could result in difficulty maintaining service level commitment obligations that we owe to certain of our customers. Service interruptions or equipment damage may occur at one or more of our data centers because of numerous factors, including: human error; equipment failure; physical, electronic and cyber security breaches; fire, hurricane, flood, earthquake and other natural disasters; water damage; fiber cuts; extreme temperatures; power loss or telecommunications failure; war, terrorism and any related conflicts or similar events worldwide; and sabotage and vandalism. We also purchase significant amounts of electricity from generating facilities and utility companies that are subject to environmental laws, regulations and permit requirements. These environmental requirements are subject to material change, which could result in increases in our electricity suppliers’ compliance costs that may be passed through to us. In addition, climate change may increase the likelihood that our data centers are affected by some of these factors. While these risks could impact our overall business, they could have a more significant impact on our Global Data Center Business, where we have service level commitment obligations to certain of our customers. As a result, service interruptions or significant equipment damage at our data centers could result in difficulty maintaining service level commitments to these customers and potential claims related to such failures. Because our data centers are critical to many of our customers’ businesses, service interruptions or significant equipment damage at our data centers could also result in lost profits or other indirect or consequential damages to our customers. Our Global Data Center Business is susceptible to regional costs of power, power shortages, planned or unplanned power outages and limitations on the availability of adequate power resources. We rely on third parties to provide power to our data centers. We are therefore subject to an inherent risk that such third parties may fail to deliver such power in adequate quantities or on a consistent basis. If the power delivered to our data centers is insufficient or interrupted, we would be required to provide power through the operation of our on-site generators, generally at a significantly higher operating cost. Additionally, global fluctuations in the price of power can increase the cost of energy, and we may be limited in our ability to, or may not always choose to, pass these increased costs on to our customers. We also rely on third party telecommunications carriers to provide internet connectivity to our customers. These carriers may elect not to offer or to restrict their services within our data centers or may elect to discontinue such services. Furthermore, carriers may face business difficulties, which could affect their ability to provide telecommunications services or the quality of such services. If connectivity is interrupted or terminated, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely affected. Events such as these may also impact our reputation as a data center provider which could adversely affect our results of operations. Our data center expansion requires a significant amount of capital and, if we are not able to raise that capital on advantageous terms, our ability to fund our data center expansion may be limited. Our data center expansion requires significant capital commitments. In addition, we may be required to commit significant operational and financial resources in connection with the organic growth of our Global Data Center Business, generally 12 to 18 months in advance of securing customer contracts, and we may not have enough customer demand to support these data centers when they are built. There can be no assurance we will have sufficient customer demand to support these data centers or data centers we have acquired or that we will not be adversely affected by the risks noted above, which could make it difficult for us to realize expected returns on our investments, if any. We have operations in numerous foreign countries and, as a result, are subject to foreign exchange translation risk, which could have an adverse effect on our financial results. We conduct business operations in numerous foreign countries through our foreign subsidiaries or affiliates, which primarily transact in their respective local currencies. Those local currencies are translated into United States dollars at the applicable exchange rates for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. The results of operations of, and certain of our debt balances (including intercompany debt balances) associated with, our international businesses are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Upon translation, operating results may differ materially from expectations, and significant shifts in foreign currencies can impact our short-term results, as well as our long-term forecasts and targets. Failure to comply with certain regulatory and contractual requirements under our United States Government contracts could adversely affect our revenues, operating results and financial position and reputation. Having the United States Government as a customer subjects us to certain regulatory and contractual requirements. Failure to comply with these requirements could subject us to investigations, price reductions, up to treble damages, and civil penalties. Noncompliance with certain regulatory and contractual requirements could also result in us being suspended or debarred from future United States Government contracting. We may also face private derivative securities claims because of adverse government actions. Any of these outcomes could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, operating results, financial position and reputation. Part I We may be subject to certain costs and potential liabilities associated with the real estate required for our business. Because our business is heavily dependent on real estate, we face special risks attributable to the real estate we own or lease. Such risks include: • acquisition and occupancy costs that make it difficult to meet anticipated margins and difficulty locating suitable facilities due to a relatively small number of available buildings having the desired characteristics in some real estate markets; • uninsured losses or damage to our storage facilities due to an inability to obtain full coverage on a cost-effective basis for some casualties, such as fires, hurricanes and earthquakes, or any coverage for certain losses, such as losses from riots or terrorist activities; • inability to use our real estate holdings effectively and costs associated with vacating or consolidating facilities if the demand for physical storage were to diminish; and • liability under environmental laws for the costs of investigation and cleanup of contaminated real estate owned or leased by us, whether or not (i) we know of, or were responsible for, the contamination, or (ii) the contamination occurred while we owned or leased the property. Some of our current and formerly owned or leased properties were previously used by entities other than us for industrial or other purposes, or were affected by waste generated from nearby properties, that involved the use, storage, generation and/or disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, including petroleum products. In some instances this prior use involved the operation of underground storage tanks or the presence of asbestos-containing materials. Where we are aware of environmental conditions that require remediation, we undertake appropriate activity, in accordance with all legal requirements. Although we have from time to time conducted limited environmental investigations and remedial activities at some of our former and current facilities, we have not undertaken an environmental review of all of our properties, including those we have acquired. We therefore may be potentially liable for environmental costs like those discussed above and may be unable to sell, rent, mortgage or use contaminated real estate owned or leased by us. Environmental conditions for which we might be liable may also exist at properties that we may acquire in the future. In addition, future regulatory action and environmental laws may impose costs for environmental compliance that do not exist today. Unexpected events, including those resulting from climate change, could disrupt our operations and adversely affect our reputation and results of operations. Unexpected events, including fires or explosions at our facilities, war or terrorist activities, natural disasters such as earthquakes and wildfires, unplanned power outages, supply disruptions, failure of equipment or systems, and severe weather events, such as droughts, heat waves, hurricanes, and flooding, could adversely affect our reputation and results of operations through physical damage to our facilities and equipment and through physical damage to, or disruption of, local infrastructure. During the past several years we have seen an increase in the frequency and intensity of severe weather events and we expect this trend to continue due to climate change. Some of our key facilities worldwide are vulnerable to severe weather events, and global weather pattern changes may also pose long-term risks of physical impacts to our business. Our customers rely on us to securely store and timely retrieve their critical information, and, while we maintain disaster recovery and business continuity plans that would be implemented these situations, these unexpected events could result in customer service disruption, physical damage to one or more key operating facilities and the information stored in those facilities, the temporary closure of one or more key operating facilities or the temporary disruption of information systems, each of which could negatively impact our reputation and results of operations. In addition, these unexpected events could negatively impact our reputation if such events result in adverse publicity, governmental investigations or litigation or if customers do not otherwise perceive our response to be adequate. Fluctuations in commodity prices may affect our operating revenues and results of operations. Our operating revenues and results of operations are impacted by significant changes in commodity prices. In particular, our secure shredding operations generate revenue from the sale of shredded paper for recycling. Further, significant declines in the cost of paper may continue to negatively impact our revenues and results of operations, and increases in other commodity prices, including steel, may negatively impact our results of operations. Failure to manage and adequately implement our new IT systems could negatively affect our business. We rely on IT infrastructure, including hardware, networks, software, people and processes, to provide information to support assessments and conclusions about our operating performance. We are in the process of upgrading a number of our IT systems, including consolidating our existing billing systems, and we face risks relating to these transitions. For example, we may incur greater costs than we anticipate training our personnel on the new systems, we may experience service disruptions or errors in accurately capturing data or retaining our records, and we may be delayed in meeting our various reporting obligations. There can be no assurance that we will manage our IT systems and implement these new systems as planned or that we will do so without disruptions to our operations, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Part I RISKS RELATED TO OUR INDEBTEDNESS Our substantial indebtedness could adversely affect our financial health and prevent us from fulfilling our obligations under our various debt instruments. We have a significant amount of indebtedness. As of December 31, 2020, our total long-term debt was approximately $8.7 billion, stockholders equity was approximately $1.1 billion and we had cash and cash equivalents (including restricted cash) of approximately $205.1 million. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to our current and potential investors. These risks include: • inability to satisfy our obligations with respect to our various debt instruments; • inability to make borrowings to fund future working capital, capital expenditures and strategic opportunities, including acquisitions, further organic development of our Global Data Center Business and expansions into adjacent businesses, and other general corporate requirements, including possible required repurchases, redemptions or prepayments of our various indebtedness; • limits on our distributions to stockholders; in this regard if these limits prevented us from satisfying our REIT distribution requirements, we could fail to remain qualified for taxation as a REIT or, if these limits do not jeopardize our qualification for taxation as a REIT but do nevertheless prevent us from distributing 100% of our REIT taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax, and potentially a nondeductible excise tax, on the retained amounts; • limits on future borrowings under our existing or future credit arrangements, which could affect our ability to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs; • inability to generate sufficient funds to cover required interest payments; • restrictions on our ability to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms; • limits on our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the information management services industry; and • inability to adjust to adverse economic conditions that could place us at a disadvantage to our competitors with less debt and who, therefore, may be able to take advantage of opportunities that our indebtedness prevents us from pursuing. We are subject to risks associated with debt financing, including the risk that our cash flow could be insufficient to meet required payments on our debt. In particular, if as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic our revenues, cash flows and/or Adjusted EBITDA continue to decline or we incur additional indebtedness, we may be unable to make required payments on our debt or to satisfy the financial and other covenants contained in our Credit Agreement (as defined in Note 6 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report) and our indentures. In addition, the expected elimination of the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) may adversely affect interest expense related to borrowings under certain of our credit arrangements and interest rate swaps, and could disrupt financial markets generally, which could potentially negatively impact our financial condition. Despite our current indebtedness levels, we may still be able to incur substantially more debt. The terms of our indentures generally do not cap the maximum amount of additional funds that may be borrowed under our Credit Agreement and possible future credit arrangements. Restrictive debt covenants may limit our ability to pursue our growth strategy. Our Credit Agreement and our indentures contain covenants restricting or limiting our ability to, among other things: • incur additional indebtedness; • pay dividends or make other restricted payments; • make asset dispositions; • create or permit liens; • sell, transfer or exchange assets; • guarantee certain indebtedness; • make acquisitions and other investments; and • enter into partnerships and joint ventures. These restrictions and our long-term commitment to reduce our leverage ratio may adversely affect our ability to pursue our acquisition and other growth strategies. Part I We may not have the ability to raise the funds necessary to finance the repurchase of outstanding senior notes upon a change of control event as required by our indentures. Upon the occurrence of a “change of control,” as defined in our indentures, we will be required to offer to repurchase all of our outstanding senior notes. However, it is possible that we will not have sufficient funds at the time of a change of control to make the required repurchase of any outstanding notes or that restrictions in our Credit Agreement will not allow such repurchases. Certain important corporate events, however, such as leveraged recapitalizations that would increase the level of our indebtedness, would not constitute a “change of control” under our indentures. Iron Mountain Incorporated (“IMI”) is a holding company, and, therefore, its ability to make payments on its various debt obligations depends in large part on the operations of its subsidiaries. IMI is a holding company; substantially all of its assets consist of the equity in its subsidiaries, and substantially all of its operations are conducted by its direct and indirect consolidated subsidiaries. As a result, its ability to make payments on its debt obligations will be dependent upon the receipt of sufficient funds from its subsidiaries, whose ability to distribute funds may be limited by local capital requirements, joint venture structures and other applicable restrictions. However, our various debt obligations are guaranteed, on a joint and several and full and unconditional basis, by IMI’s U.S. subsidiaries that represent the substantial majority of its U.S. operations. RISKS RELATED TO OUR TAXATION AS A REIT If we fail to remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, we will be subject to tax at corporate income tax rates and will not be able to deduct distributions to stockholders when computing our taxable income. We have elected to be taxed as a REIT since our 2014 taxable year. We believe that our organization and method of operation comply with the rules and regulations promulgated under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the “Code”), such that we will continue to qualify for taxation as a REIT. However, we can provide no assurance that we will remain qualified for taxation as a REIT. If we fail to remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, we will be taxed at corporate income tax rates unless certain relief provisions apply. Qualification for taxation as a REIT involves the application of highly technical and complex provisions of the Code to our operations as well as various factual determinations concerning matters and circumstances not entirely within our control. There are limited judicial or administrative interpretations of applicable REIT provisions of the Code. If, in any taxable year, we fail to remain qualified for taxation as a REIT and are not entitled to relief under the Code: • we will not be allowed a deduction for distributions to stockholders in computing our taxable income; • we will be subject to federal and state income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate income tax rates; and • we would not be eligible to elect REIT status again until the fifth taxable year that begins after the first year for which we failed to qualify for taxation as a REIT. Any such corporate tax liability could be substantial and would reduce the amount of cash available for other purposes. If we fail to remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, we may need to borrow additional funds or liquidate some investments to pay any additional tax liability. Accordingly, funds available for investment and distributions to stockholders could be reduced. As a REIT, failure to make required distributions would subject us to federal corporate income tax. We expect to continue paying regular quarterly distributions; however, the amount, timing and form of our regular quarterly distributions will be determined, and will be subject to adjustment, by our board of directors. To remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, we are generally required to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income (determined without regard to the dividends paid deduction and excluding net capital gain) each year, or in limited circumstances, the following year, to our stockholders. Generally, we expect to distribute all or substantially all of our REIT taxable income. If our cash available for distribution falls short of our estimates, we may be unable to maintain distributions that approximate our REIT taxable income and may fail to remain qualified for taxation as a REIT. In addition, our cash flows from operations may be insufficient to fund required distributions as a result of differences in timing between the actual receipt of income and the payment of expenses and the recognition of income and expenses for federal income tax purposes, or the effect of nondeductible expenditures. To the extent that we satisfy the 90% distribution requirement but distribute less than 100% of our REIT taxable income, we will be subject to federal corporate income tax on our undistributed taxable income. In addition, we will be subject to a 4% nondeductible excise tax on our undistributed taxable income if the actual amount that we distribute to our stockholders for a calendar year is less than the minimum amount specified under the Code. Part I We may be required to borrow funds, sell assets or raise equity to satisfy our REIT distribution requirements, to comply with asset ownership tests or to fund capital expenditures, future growth and expansion initiatives. In order to satisfy our REIT distribution requirements and maintain our qualification and taxation as a REIT, or to fund capital expenditures, future growth and expansion initiatives, we may need to borrow funds, sell assets or raise equity, even if our financial condition or the then-prevailing market conditions are not favorable for these borrowings, sales or offerings. Furthermore, the REIT distribution requirements and our commitment to investors on dividend growth may result in increasing our financing needs to fund capital expenditures, future growth and expansion initiatives, which would increase our indebtedness. An increase in our outstanding debt could lead to a downgrade of our credit ratings, which could negatively impact our ability to access credit markets. Further, certain of our current debt instruments limit the amount of indebtedness we and our subsidiaries may incur. Additional financing, therefore, may be unavailable, more expensive or restricted by the terms of our outstanding indebtedness. For a discussion of risks related to our substantial level of indebtedness, see “Risks Related to Our Indebtedness.” Complying with REIT requirements may limit our flexibility, cause us to forgo otherwise attractive opportunities that we would otherwise pursue to execute our growth strategy, or otherwise reduce our income and amounts available for distribution to our stockholders. To remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, we must satisfy tests concerning, among other things, the sources of our income, the nature and diversification of our assets and the amounts we distribute to our stockholders. Thus, compliance with these tests may require us to refrain from certain activities and may hinder our ability to make certain attractive investments, including the purchase of non-REIT qualifying operations or assets, the expansion of non-real estate activities, and investments in the businesses to be conducted by our TRSs, and to that extent limit our opportunities and our flexibility to change our business strategy. This may restrict our ability to enter into joint ventures or acquire minority interests of companies. Furthermore, acquisition opportunities in domestic and international markets may be adversely affected if we need or require the target company to comply with some REIT requirements prior to closing. We conduct a significant portion of our business activities, including our information management services businesses and several of our international operations, through domestic and foreign TRSs. Under the Code, no more than 25% of the value of the assets of a REIT may be represented by securities of one or more TRSs and other nonqualifying assets. In addition, no more than 20% of the value of the assets of a REIT may be represented by securities of one or more TRSs within the overall 25% nonqualifying assets limitation. These limitations may affect our ability to make additional investments in non-REIT qualifying operations or assets or in international operations through TRSs. If we fail to comply with specified asset ownership tests applicable to REITs as measured at the end of any calendar quarter, we generally must correct such failure within 30 days after the end of the applicable calendar quarter or qualify for statutory relief provisions to avoid losing our qualification for taxation as a REIT. As a result, we may be required to liquidate assets or to forgo our pursuit of otherwise attractive investments. These actions may reduce our income and amounts available for distribution to our stockholders. As a REIT, we are limited in our ability to fund distribution payments using cash generated through our TRSs. Our ability to receive distributions from our TRSs is limited by the rules with which we must comply to maintain our qualification for taxation as a REIT. In particular, at least 75% of our gross income for each taxable year as a REIT must be derived from real estate, which generally includes gross income from providing customers with secure storage space or colocation or wholesale data center space. Consequently, no more than 25% of our gross income may consist of dividend income from our TRSs and other nonqualifying types of income. Thus, our ability to receive distributions from our TRSs may be limited, which may impact our ability to fund distributions to our stockholders using cash flows from our TRSs. Specifically, if our TRSs become highly profitable, we might become limited in our ability to receive net income from our TRSs in an amount required to fund distributions to our stockholders commensurate with that profitability. In addition, a significant amount of our income and cash flows from our TRSs is generated from our international operations. In many cases, there are local withholding taxes and currency controls that may impact our ability or willingness to repatriate funds to the United States to help satisfy REIT distribution requirements. Our extensive use of TRSs, including for certain of our international operations, may cause us to fail to remain qualified for taxation as a REIT. Our operations include an extensive use of TRSs. The net income of our TRSs is not required to be distributed to us, and income that is not distributed to us generally is not subject to the REIT income distribution requirement. However, there may be limitations on our ability to accumulate earnings in our TRSs and the accumulation or reinvestment of significant earnings in our TRSs could result in adverse tax treatment. In particular, if the accumulation of cash in our TRSs causes (1) the fair market value of our securities in our TRSs to exceed 20% of the fair market value of our assets or (2) the fair market value of our securities in our TRSs and other nonqualifying assets to exceed 25% of the fair market value of our assets, then we will fail to remain qualified for taxation as a REIT. Further, a substantial portion of our operations are conducted overseas, and a material change in foreign currency rates could also affect the value of our foreign holdings in our TRSs, negatively impacting our ability to remain qualified for taxation as a REIT. Part I Even if we remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, some of our business activities are subject to corporate level income tax and foreign taxes, which will continue to reduce our cash flows, and we will have potential deferred and contingent tax liabilities. Even if we remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to some federal, state, local and foreign taxes, including taxes on any undistributed income, and state, local or foreign income, franchise, property and transfer taxes. In addition, we could in certain circumstances be required to pay an excise or penalty tax, which could be significant in amount, in order to utilize one or more relief provisions under the Code to maintain our qualification for taxation as a REIT. A portion of our business is conducted through wholly-owned TRSs because certain of our business activities could generate nonqualifying REIT income as currently structured and operated. The income of our domestic TRSs will continue to be subject to federal and state corporate income taxes. In addition, our international assets and operations will continue to be subject to taxation in the foreign jurisdictions where those assets are held or those operations are conducted. Any of these taxes would decrease our earnings and our available cash. We will also be subject to a federal corporate level income tax at the highest regular corporate income tax rate (currently 21%) on gain recognized from a sale of a REIT asset where our basis in the asset is determined by reference to the basis of the asset in the hands of a C corporation (such as an asset that we hold in one of our qualified REIT subsidiaries (“QRSs”) following the liquidation or other conversion of a former TRS). This 21% tax is generally applicable to any disposition of such an asset during the five-year period after the date we first owned the asset as a REIT asset to the extent of the built-in-gain based on the fair market value of such asset on the date we first held the asset as a REIT asset. In addition, any depreciation recapture income that we recognize because of accounting method changes that we make in connection with our acquisition activities will be fully subject to this 21% tax. Complying with REIT requirements may limit our ability to hedge effectively and increase the cost of our hedging and may cause us to incur tax liabilities. The REIT provisions of the Code limit our ability to hedge assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. Generally, income from hedging transactions that we enter into to manage risk of interest rate changes with respect to borrowings made or to be made by us to acquire or carry real estate assets and income from certain currency hedging transactions related to our non- United States operations, as well as income from qualifying counteracting hedges, do not constitute “gross income” for purposes of the REIT gross income tests. To the extent that we enter into other types of hedging transactions, the income from those transactions is likely to be treated as nonqualifying income for purposes of the REIT gross income tests. As a result of these rules, we may need to limit our use of advantageous hedging techniques or implement those hedges through our TRSs. This could increase the cost of our hedging activities because our TRSs would be subject to tax on income or gains resulting from hedges entered into by them and may expose us to greater risks associated with changes in interest rates or exchange rates than we would otherwise want to bear. In addition, hedging losses in any of our TRSs generally will not provide any tax benefit, except for being carried forward for possible use against future income or gain in the TRSs. Distributions payable by REITs generally do not qualify for preferential tax rates. Dividends payable by United States corporations to noncorporate stockholders, such as individuals, trusts and estates, are generally eligible for reduced United States federal income tax rates applicable to “qualified dividends.” Distributions paid by REITs generally are not treated as “qualified dividends” under the Code, and the reduced rates applicable to such dividends do not generally apply. However, for tax years beginning before 2026, REIT dividends paid to noncorporate stockholders are generally taxed at an effective tax rate lower than applicable ordinary income tax rates due to the availability of a deduction under the Code for specified forms of income from passthrough entities. More favorable rates will nevertheless continue to apply to regular corporate “qualified” dividends, which may cause some investors to perceive that an investment in a REIT is less attractive than an investment in a non-REIT entity that pays dividends, thereby reducing the demand and market price of our common stock. Part I The ownership and transfer restrictions contained in our certificate of incorporation may not protect our qualification for taxation as a REIT, could have unintended antitakeover effects and may prevent our stockholders from receiving a takeover premium. In order for us to remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, no more than 50% of the value of outstanding shares of our capital stock may be owned, beneficially or constructively, by five or fewer individuals at any time during the last half of each taxable year. In addition, rents from “affiliated tenants” will not qualify as qualifying REIT income if we own 10% or more by vote or value of the customer, whether directly or after application of attribution rules under the Code. Subject to certain exceptions, our certificate of incorporation prohibits any stockholder from owning, beneficially or constructively, more than (i) 9.8% in value of the outstanding shares of all classes or series of our capital stock or (ii) 9.8% in value or number, whichever is more restrictive, of the outstanding shares of any class or series of our capital stock. We refer to these restrictions collectively as the “ownership limits” and we included them in our certificate of incorporation to facilitate our compliance with REIT tax rules. The constructive ownership rules under the Code are complex and may cause the outstanding stock owned by a group of related individuals or entities to be deemed to be constructively owned by one individual or entity. As a result, the acquisition of less than 9.8% of our outstanding common stock (or the outstanding shares of any class or series of our capital stock) by an individual or entity could cause that individual or entity or another individual or entity to own constructively in excess of the relevant ownership limits. Any attempt to own or transfer shares of our common stock or of any of our other capital stock in violation of these restrictions may result in the shares being automatically transferred to a charitable trust or may be void. Even though our certificate of incorporation contains the ownership limits, there can be no assurance that these provisions will be effective to prevent our qualification for taxation as a REIT from being jeopardized, including under the affiliated tenant rule. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we will be able to monitor and enforce the ownership limits. If the restrictions in our certificate of incorporation are not effective and, as a result, we fail to satisfy the REIT tax rules described above, then absent an applicable relief provision, we will fail to remain qualified for taxation as a REIT. In addition, the ownership and transfer restrictions could delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control that might involve a premium price for our stock or otherwise be in the best interest of our stockholders. As a result, the overall effect of the ownership and transfer restrictions may be to render more difficult or discourage any attempt to acquire us, even if such acquisition may be favorable to the interests of our stockholders. Legislative or other actions affecting REITs could have a negative effect on us or our stockholders. At any time, the federal or state income tax laws governing REITs, the administrative interpretations of those laws, or local laws impacting our REIT structure for our international operations may be amended. Federal, state and local tax laws are constantly under review by persons involved in the legislative process, the IRS, the United States Department of the Treasury (“Treasury”) and state and local taxing authorities. Changes to the tax laws, regulations and administrative interpretations or local laws governing our international operations, which may have retroactive application, could adversely affect us. In addition, some of these changes could have a more significant impact on us as compared to other REITs due to the nature of our business and our substantial use of TRSs, particularly non-United States TRSs or how we have structured our operations outside the United States to comply with our REIT structure. We cannot predict with certainty whether, when, in what forms, or with what effective dates, the tax laws, regulations, administrative interpretations or local laws applicable to us may be changed or if such laws would impact our ability to qualify for taxation as a REIT or the costs for doing so. GENERAL RISK FACTORS Our cash distributions are not guaranteed and may fluctuate. As a REIT, we are generally required to distribute at least 90% of our REIT taxable income to our stockholders. Furthermore, we are committed to growing our dividends, and have stated this publicly. Our board of directors, in its sole discretion, will determine, on a quarterly basis, the amount of cash to be distributed to our stockholders based on a number of factors including, but not limited to, our results of operations, cash flow and capital requirements, economic conditions, tax considerations, borrowing capacity and other factors, including debt covenant restrictions that may impose limitations on cash payments, future acquisitions and divestitures, any stock repurchase program and general market demand for our space and related services. Consequently, our distribution levels may fluctuate and we may not be able to meet our public commitments with respect to dividend growth. Part I Our business could be adversely impacted if there are deficiencies in our disclosure controls and procedures or internal control over financial reporting. The design and effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting may not prevent all errors, misstatements or misrepresentations. While management will continue to review the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting, there can be no guarantee that our internal control over financial reporting will be effective in accomplishing all control objectives all of the time. Moreover, the continuation of remote work arrangements as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic could negatively impact our internal controls over financial reporting. Furthermore, our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting with respect to entities that we do not control or manage may be substantially more limited than those we maintain with respect to the subsidiaries that we have controlled or managed over the course of time. Deficiencies, including any material weakness, in our internal control over financial reporting which may occur in the future could result in misstatements of our results of operations, restatements of our financial statements, a decline in our stock price, or otherwise materially adversely affect our business, reputation, results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. We face competition for customers. We compete with multiple businesses in all geographic areas where we operate; our current or potential customers may choose to use those competitors instead of us. In addition, if we are successful in winning customers from competitors, the process of moving their stored records into our facilities is often costly and time consuming. We also compete, in some of our business lines, with our current and potential customers’ internal storage and information management services capabilities and their cloud-based alternatives. These organizations may not begin or continue to use us for their future storage and information management service needs. The performance of our businesses relies on our ability to attract, develop, and retain talented personnel, while controlling our labor costs. We are highly dependent on skilled and qualified personnel to operate our businesses. The failure to attract and retain qualified employees or to effectively control our labor costs could negatively affect our competitive position and operating results. Our ability to control labor costs and attract qualified personnel is subject to numerous external factors, including prevailing wages, labor shortages, the impact of legislation or regulations governing wages and hours, labor relations, immigration, healthcare and other benefits, other employment-related costs and the hiring practices of our competitors.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto and the other financial and operating information included elsewhere in this Annual Report. This discussion contains “forward-looking statements” as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and in other securities laws. See “Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements” on page iii of this Annual Report and “Item 1A. Risk Factors” beginning on page 8 of this Annual Report. Part II OVERVIEW PROJECT SUMMIT In October 2019, we announced Project Summit, our global program designed to better position us for future growth and achievement of our strategic objectives. We expanded Project Summit during the first quarter of 2020 to include additional opportunities to streamline our business and operations, as well as accelerated the timing of certain opportunities previously identified. Such opportunities include leveraging new technology solutions to enable us to modernize our service delivery model and more efficiently utilize our fleet, labor and real estate. As a result of the program, we expect to reduce the number of positions at vice president and above by approximately 45%. The total program is expected to reduce our total managerial and administrative workforce by approximately 700 positions by the end of 2021. We have also reduced our services and operations workforce. As of December 31, 2020, we have completed approximately 70% of our planned workforce reductions. Part II The activities associated with Project Summit began in the fourth quarter of 2019 and are expected to be substantially complete by the end of 2021. We expect the total program benefits associated with Project Summit to be fully realized exiting 2021. Including the expanded scope of Project Summit, we expect that Project Summit will improve annual Adjusted EBITDA (as defined below) by approximately $375.0 million exiting 2021. We will continue to evaluate our overall operating model, as well as various opportunities and initiatives, including those associated with real estate consolidation, system implementation and process changes, which could result in the identification and implementation of additional actions associated with Project Summit and incremental costs and benefits. We estimate that the implementation of Project Summit will result in total operating expenditures ("Restructuring Charges") of approximately $450.0 million that primarily consist of: (1) employee severance costs; (2) internal costs associated with the development and implementation of Project Summit initiatives; (3) professional fees, primarily related to third party consultants who are assisting with the design and execution of various initiatives as well as project management activities and (4) system implementation and data conversion costs. The following table presents (in millions) total Restructuring Charges related to Project Summit primarily related to employee severance costs, internal costs associated with the development and implementation of Project Summit initiatives and professional fees from the inception of Project Summit through December 31, 2020, for the year ended December 31, 2020 and for the year ended December 31, 2019: We have also incurred approximately $10.1 million in capital expenditures related to Project Summit from the inception of Project Summit through December 31, 2020. DIVESTMENTS In March 2019, we contributed our customer contracts and certain intellectual property and other assets used by us to operate our consumer storage business in the United States and Canada (the “IM Consumer Storage Assets”) and approximately $20.0 million in cash (gross of certain transaction expenses) (the “Cash Contribution”) to the MakeSpace JV (the “Consumer Storage Transaction”), established by us and MakeSpace. Upon the closing of the Consumer Storage Transaction on March 19, 2019, the MakeSpace JV owned (i) the IM Consumer Storage Assets, (ii) the Cash Contribution and (iii) the customer contracts, intellectual property and certain other assets used by MakeSpace to operate its consumer storage business in the United States. As part of the Consumer Storage Transaction, we received an initial equity interest of approximately 34% in the MakeSpace JV (the “MakeSpace Investment”). In the second quarter of 2020, we committed to participate in a round of equity funding for the MakeSpace JV whereby we agreed to contribute $36.0 million of the $45.0 million being raised in installments beginning in May 2020 through October 2021. At December 31, 2020, we owned approximately 39% of the outstanding equity in the MakeSpace JV. As described in Note 4 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report, we have concluded that the divestment of the IM Consumer Storage Assets in the Consumer Storage Transaction does not meet the criteria to be reported as discontinued operations in our consolidated financial statements. In connection with the Consumer Storage Transaction and the MakeSpace Investment, we also entered into a storage and service agreement with the MakeSpace JV to provide certain storage and related services to the MakeSpace JV (the “MakeSpace Agreement”). Revenues and expenses associated with the MakeSpace Agreement are presented as a component of our Global RIM Business segment. During the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, we recognized revenue of approximately $33.6 million and $22.5 million, respectively, associated with the MakeSpace Agreement. As a result of the Consumer Storage Transaction, we recorded a gain on sale of approximately $4.2 million to Other expense (income), net, in the first quarter of 2019, representing the excess of the fair value of the consideration received over the sum of (i) the carrying value of our consumer storage operations and (ii) the Cash Contribution. Part II CHANGES IMPACTING COMPARABILITY WITH PRIOR YEAR During the fourth quarter of 2020, we made changes to the definitions of the following non-GAAP measures: Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted EPS, FFO (Nareit) and FFO (Normalized) (each as defined below). These changes were implemented to align our definitions more closely with our peers. These changes impacted the results reported for these non-GAAP measures for fiscal years 2019 and 2018. However, these changes did not materially impact the discussion to what was included in previous filings. All prior periods have been recast to conform to these changes. See “Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019 for a comparison of 2019 to 2018. GENERAL RESULTS OF OPERATIONS - KEY TRENDS • In spite of the COVID-19 pandemic, we have experienced relatively steady volume in our Global RIM Business segment, with organic storage rental revenue growth driven primarily by revenue management. We expect organic storage rental revenue growth to benefit from revenue management and volume to be relatively stable in the near term. We expect our total organic storage rental revenue growth rate for 2021 to be approximately 2% to 4%. • Our organic service revenue during 2020 was significantly impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic, with declines primarily due to decreases in our service activity, particularly in regions where governments have imposed restrictions on our customers’ non-essential business operations. The severity of future service level declines is uncertain and is dependent, in part, on the duration and severity of the COVID-19 pandemic, the resulting governmental and business actions and the duration and strength of any ensuing economic recovery that may follow, particularly within the markets in which we operate and among our customers. Our revenues consist of storage rental revenues as well as service revenues and are reflected net of sales and value-added taxes. Storage rental revenues, which are considered a key driver of financial performance for the storage and information management services industry, consist primarily of recurring periodic rental charges related to the storage of materials or data (generally on a per unit basis) that are typically retained by customers for many years and revenues associated with our data center operations. Service revenues include charges for related service activities, the most significant of which include: (1) the handling of records, including the addition of new records, temporary removal of records from storage, refiling of removed records, customer termination and permanent withdrawal fees, project revenues, and courier operations, consisting primarily of the pickup and delivery of records upon customer request; (2) destruction services, consisting primarily of secure shredding of sensitive documents and the subsequent sale of shredded paper for recycling, the price of which can fluctuate from period to period; and (3) digital solutions, including the scanning, imaging and document conversion services of active and inactive records, and consulting services. Our service revenue growth has been negatively impacted by declining activity rates as stored records are becoming less active. While customers continue to store their records and tapes with us, they are less likely than they have been in the past to retrieve records for research and other purposes, thereby reducing service activity levels. BREAKDOWN OF REVENUES Part II Cost of sales (excluding depreciation and amortization) consists primarily of labor, including wages and benefits for field personnel, facility occupancy costs (including rent and utilities), transportation expenses (including vehicle leases and fuel), other product cost of sales and other equipment costs and supplies. Of these, labor and facility occupancy costs are the most significant. Selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of wages and benefits for management, administrative, IT, sales, account management and marketing personnel, as well as expenses related to communications and data processing, travel, professional fees, bad debts, training, office equipment and supplies. Cost of sales (excluding depreciation and amortization) and Selling, general and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2020 consists of the following: Our depreciation and amortization charges result primarily from depreciation related to storage systems, which include racking structures, buildings, building and leasehold improvements and computer systems hardware and software. Amortization relates primarily to customer relationship intangible assets, contract fulfillment costs and data center lease-based intangible assets. Both depreciation and amortization are impacted by the timing of acquisitions. Our consolidated revenues and expenses are subject to the net effect of foreign currency translation related to our operations outside the United States. It is difficult to predict the future fluctuations of foreign currency exchange rates and how those fluctuations will impact our Consolidated Statements of Operations. As a result of the relative size of our international operations, these fluctuations may be material on individual balances. Our revenues and expenses from our international operations are generally denominated in the local currency of the country in which they are derived or incurred. Therefore, the impact of currency fluctuations on our operating income and operating margin is partially mitigated. In order to provide a framework for assessing how our underlying businesses performed excluding the effect of foreign currency fluctuations, we compare the percentage change in the results from one period to another period in this report using constant currency presentation. The constant currency growth rates are calculated by translating the 2019 results at the 2020 average exchange rates and the 2018 results at the 2019 average exchange rates. Constant currency growth rates are a non-GAAP measure. Part II The following table is a comparison of underlying average exchange rates of the foreign currencies that had the most significant impact on our United States dollar-reported revenues and expenses: The percentage of United States dollar-reported revenues for all other foreign currencies was 13.8%, 12.7% and 12.6% for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. NON-GAAP MEASURES ADJUSTED EBITDA During the fourth quarter of 2020, we changed our definition of Adjusted EBITDA to (a) exclude stock-based compensation expense and (b) include our share of Adjusted EBITDA from our unconsolidated joint ventures. We now define Adjusted EBITDA as income (loss) from continuing operations before interest expense, net, provision (benefit) for income taxes, depreciation and amortization (inclusive of our share of Adjusted EBITDA from our unconsolidated joint ventures), and excluding certain items we do not believe to be indicative of our core operating results, specifically: Adjusted EBITDA Margin is calculated by dividing Adjusted EBITDA by total revenues. We also show Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin for each of our reportable operating segments under “Results of Operations – Segment Analysis” below. Part II Adjusted EBITDA excludes both interest expense, net and the provision (benefit) for income taxes. These expenses are associated with our capitalization and tax structures, which we do not consider when evaluating the operating profitability of our core operations. Adjusted EBITDA also does not include depreciation and amortization expenses, in order to eliminate the impact of capital investments, which we evaluate by comparing capital expenditures to incremental revenue generated and as a percentage of total revenues. Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin should be considered in addition to, but not as a substitute for, other measures of financial performance reported in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“GAAP”), such as operating income, income (loss) from continuing operations, net income (loss) or cash flows from operating activities from continuing operations (as determined in accordance with GAAP). RECONCILIATION OF INCOME (LOSS) FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS TO ADJUSTED EBITDA (IN THOUSANDS): (1) Includes foreign currency transaction losses (gains), net, debt extinguishment expense and other, net. See Note 2.t. to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for additional information regarding the components of Other expense (income), net. (2) Stock-based compensation expense related to Project Summit is included within Restructuring Charges for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019. (3) Costs that are incremental and directly attributable to the COVID-19 pandemic which are not expected to recur once the pandemic ends (“COVID-19 Costs”). These costs include the purchase of personal protective equipment for our employees and incremental cleaning costs of our facilities, among other direct costs. ADJUSTED EPS During the fourth quarter of 2020, we changed our definition of Adjusted EPS to (a) exclude stock-based compensation expense and (b) include our share of adjusted losses (gains) from our unconsolidated joint ventures. We now define Adjusted EPS as reported earnings per share fully diluted from continuing operations (inclusive of our share of adjusted losses (gains) from our unconsolidated joint ventures) and excluding certain items, specifically: We do not believe these excluded items to be indicative of our ongoing operating results, and they are not considered when we are forecasting our future results. We believe Adjusted EPS is of value to our current and potential investors when comparing our results from past, present and future periods. Part II RECONCILIATION OF REPORTED EPS—FULLY DILUTED FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS TO ADJUSTED EPS—FULLY DILUTED FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS: (1) Stock-based compensation expense related to Project Summit is included within Restructuring Charges for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019. (2) These costs include the purchase of personal protective equipment for our employees and incremental cleaning costs of our facilities, among other direct costs. (3) The difference between our effective tax rate and our structural tax rate (or adjusted effective tax rate) for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018 is primarily due to (i) the reconciling items above, which impact our reported income (loss) from continuing operations before provision (benefit) for income taxes but have an insignificant impact on our reported provision (benefit) for income taxes and (ii) other discrete tax items. Our structural tax rate for purposes of the calculation of Adjusted EPS for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 was 15.1%, 17.6%, and 17.9%, respectively. (4) Columns may not foot due to rounding. FFO (NAREIT) AND FFO (NORMALIZED) Funds from operations ("FFO") is defined by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts (“Nareit”) as net income (loss) excluding depreciation on real estate assets, gains on sale of real estate, net of tax, and amortization of data center leased-based intangibles. Consistent with Nareit's definition of FFO, during the fourth quarter of 2020, we began adjusting for our share of reconciling items from our unconsolidated joint ventures from FFO ("FFO (Nareit)"). FFO (Nareit) does not give effect to real estate depreciation because these amounts are computed, under GAAP, to allocate the cost of a property over its useful life. Because values for well-maintained real estate assets have historically increased or decreased based upon prevailing market conditions, we believe that FFO (Nareit) provides investors with a clearer view of our operating performance. Our most directly comparable GAAP measure to FFO (Nareit) is net income (loss). Although Nareit has published a definition of FFO, we modify FFO (Nareit), as is common among REITs seeking to provide financial measures that most meaningfully reflect their particular business ("FFO (Normalized)"). During the fourth quarter of 2020, we changed our definition of FFO (Normalized) to exclude stock-based compensation expense and adjust for our share of FFO (Normalized) reconciling items from our unconsolidated joint ventures. Our definition of FFO (Normalized) excludes certain items included in FFO (Nareit) that we believe are not indicative of our core operating results, specifically: Part II RECONCILIATION OF NET INCOME (LOSS) TO FFO (NAREIT) AND FFO (NORMALIZED) (IN THOUSANDS): (1) Includes depreciation expense related to owned real estate assets (land improvements, buildings, building improvements, leasehold improvements and racking), excluding depreciation related to real estate financing leases. (2) Tax expense associated with the gain on sale of real estate for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019, and 2018, was $0.4 million, $5.4 million, and $8.5 million, respectively. (3) Includes amortization expense for Data Center In-Place Lease Intangible Assets and Data Center Tenant Relationship Intangible Assets as defined in Note 2.l. to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report. (4) Includes foreign currency transaction losses (gains), net, debt extinguishment expense and other, net. See Note 2.t. to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for additional information regarding the components of Other expense (income), net. (5) Stock-based compensation expense related to Project Summit is included within Restructuring Charges for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019. (6) These costs include the purchase of personal protective equipment for our employees and incremental cleaning costs of our facilities, among other direct costs. (7) Represents the tax impact of (i) the reconciling items above, which impacts our reported income (loss) from continuing operations before provision (benefit) for income taxes but has an insignificant impact on our reported provision (benefit) for income taxes and (ii) other discrete tax items. Discrete tax items resulted in a (benefit) provision for income taxes of $(16.8) million, $(1.5) million and $(27.7) million for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. (8) Net of tax (benefit) provision of $0.0 million, $0.0 million and $(0.1) million for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018, respectively. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and for the period then ended. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate the estimates used. We base our estimates on historical experience, actuarial estimates, current conditions and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. These estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities and are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates. The following should be read in conjunction with Note 2 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report, which provides a summary of our significant accounting policies. Our critical accounting estimates include the following, which are listed in no particular order: Part II REVENUE RECOGNITION Revenue is recognized when or as control of promised goods or services is transferred to the customer, in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. See Note 2.r. to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for additional details on our revenue recognition policies. Revenue for all our lines of business, with the exception of storage revenues in our Global Data Center Business (which is subject to leasing guidance), is recognized under Accounting Standards Update No. 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606) (“ASU 2014-09”), the application of which requires that we make estimates and judgements that may affect the amount and timing of revenue we recognize. We have determined that the majority of our contracts contain series performance obligations which qualify to be recognized under a practical expedient available in ASU 2014-09 known as the “right to invoice.” This determination allows variable consideration in such contracts to be allocated to and recognized in the period to which the consideration relates, which is typically the period in which it is billed, rather than requiring estimation of variable consideration at the inception of the contract. From time to time, we make payments to entities that are also customers under a revenue contract. These payments are comprised of Customer Inducements (as defined in Note 2.l. to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report). Consideration payable to a customer is reviewed as part of the transaction price. If the payment to the customer does not represent payment for a distinct service, revenue is recognized only up to the amount of consideration remaining after customer payment obligations are considered. Contract Fulfillment Costs are amortized over a three year term, which we have determined is consistent with the transfer of the underlying performance obligations to which the assets relate. Different determinations on term length would result in differences in the amount and timing of amortization expense recognized. ACCOUNTING FOR ACQUISITIONS Part of our growth strategy has been to acquire businesses. The purchase price of each acquisition has been determined after due diligence of the target business, market research, strategic planning and the forecasting of expected future results and synergies. Estimated future results and expected synergies are subject to revisions as we integrate each acquisition and attempt to leverage resources. Accounting for acquisitions of a business has resulted in the capitalization of the cost in excess of the estimated fair value of the net assets acquired in each of these acquisitions as goodwill. We estimate the fair values of the assets acquired in each acquisition as of the date of acquisition and these estimates are subject to adjustment based on the final assessments of the fair value of intangible assets (primarily customer relationship and data center lease-based intangible assets), property, plant and equipment (primarily building, building improvements, leasehold improvements, data center infrastructure and racking structures), operating leases, contingencies and income taxes (primarily deferred income taxes). See Note 3 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for a description of recent acquisitions. Determining the fair values of the net assets acquired requires management’s judgment and often involves the use of assumptions with respect to future cash inflows and outflows, discount rates and market data, among other items. As it relates to our data center acquisitions, the fair values of the net assets acquired requires management’s judgment and often involves the use of assumptions with respect to (i) certain economic costs (as described more fully in Note 2.l. to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report) avoided by acquiring a data center operation with active tenants that would have otherwise been incurred if the data center operation was purchased vacant, (ii) market rental rates and (iii) expectations of lease renewals and extensions. Due to the inherent uncertainty of future events, actual values of net assets acquired could be different from our estimated fair values and could have a material impact on our financial statements. Of the net assets acquired in our acquisitions, the fair value of owned buildings, including building improvements, customer relationship and data center lease-based intangible assets, racking structures and operating leases are generally the most common and most significant. For significant acquisitions or acquisitions involving new markets or new products, we generally use third parties to assist us in estimating the fair value of owned buildings, including building improvements, customer relationship and lease-based intangible assets and market rental rates for acquired operating leases. For acquisitions that are not significant or do not involve new markets or new products, we generally use third parties to assist us in estimating the fair value of acquired owned buildings, including building improvements, and market rental rates for acquired operating leases. When not using third party appraisals of the fair value of acquired net assets, the fair value of acquired customer relationship intangible assets, above and below market in-place operating leases, and racking structures is determined internally. The fair value of acquired racking structures is determined internally by taking current estimated replacement cost at the date of acquisition for the quantity of racking structures acquired, discounted to take into account the quality (e.g. age, material and type) of the racking structures. We use discounted cash flow models to determine the fair value of customer relationship assets, which requires a significant amount of judgment by management, including estimating expected lives of the relationships, expected future cash flows and discount rates. We determine the fair value of tangible data center assets using an estimated replacement cost at the date of acquisition, then discounting for age, economic and functional obsolescence. Part II Our estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable at that time but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable. Assumptions may be incomplete or inaccurate, and unanticipated events and circumstances may occur, which may affect the accuracy of such assumptions. Total property, plant and equipment and intangible assets acquired in our 2020 acquisitions were approximately $52.0 million and $79.1 million, respectively. IMPAIRMENT OF TANGIBLE AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS ASSETS SUBJECT TO DEPRECIATION OR AMORTIZATION We review long-lived assets and all finite-lived intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of such assets may not be recoverable. Examples of events or circumstances that may be indicative of impairment include, but are not limited to: • A significant decrease in the market price of an asset; • A significant change in the extent or manner in which a long-lived asset is being used or in its physical condition; • A significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate that could affect the value of the asset; • An accumulation of costs significantly greater than the amount originally expected for the acquisition or construction of an asset; • A current-period operating or cash flow loss combined with a history of operating or cash flow losses or a projection or forecast that demonstrates continuing losses associated with the use of a long-lived asset; and • A current expectation that, more likely than not, an asset will be sold or otherwise disposed of significantly before the end of its previously estimated useful life. If events indicate the carrying value of such assets may not be recoverable, recoverability of these assets is determined by comparing the sum of the forecasted undiscounted net cash flows of the operation to which the assets relate to their carrying amount. The operations are generally distinguished by the business segment and geographic region in which they operate. If it is determined that we are unable to recover the carrying amount of the assets, the long-lived assets are written down, on a pro rata basis, to fair value. Fair value is determined based on discounted cash flows or appraised values, depending upon the nature of the assets. GOODWILL AND OTHER INDEFINITE-LIVED INTANGIBLE ASSETS NOT SUBJECT TO AMORTIZATION Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are not amortized but are reviewed annually for impairment, or more frequently if impairment indicators arise. Other than goodwill, we currently have no intangible assets that have indefinite lives and which are not amortized. See Note 2.k. to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for additional details on our goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets policies. We have selected October 1 as our annual goodwill impairment review date. We have performed our annual goodwill impairment review as of October 1, 2020, 2019 and 2018. We concluded that as of October 1, 2020, 2019 and 2018, goodwill was not impaired. During the first quarter of 2020, we concluded that we had a triggering event related to our Fine Arts reporting unit, requiring us to perform an interim goodwill impairment test. The primary factor contributing to our conclusion was the expected impact of the COVID-19 pandemic to this particular business and its customers and revenue sources, which caused us to believe it was more likely than not that the carrying value of our Fine Arts reporting unit exceeded its fair value. Therefore, we performed an interim goodwill impairment test for our Fine Arts reporting unit utilizing a discounted cash flow model, with updated assumptions on future revenues, operating expenditures and capital expenditures. We concluded that the fair value of our Fine Arts reporting unit was less than its carrying value, and, therefore, we recorded a $23.0 million impairment charge on the goodwill associated with this reporting unit during the first quarter of 2020. Factors that may impact these assumptions include, but are not limited to: (i) our ability to maintain, or grow, storage rental and service revenues in line with current expectations and (ii) our ability to manage our fixed and variable costs in line with potential future revenue declines. Our reporting units at which level we performed our goodwill impairment analysis as of October 1, 2020 were as follows: Part II See Note 2.k. to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for a description of our reporting units. Based on our goodwill impairment analysis as of October 1, 2020, our reporting units that had estimated fair values exceeding their carrying values by greater than 20% represented approximately $4,120.6 million, or 90.4%, of our consolidated goodwill balance at December 31, 2020. Our Global Data Center reporting unit had an estimated fair value that exceeded its carrying value by less than 20%. The reporting unit represented approximately $437.0 million, or 9.6%, of our consolidated goodwill balance at December 31, 2020. The following is a summary of the Global Data Center reporting unit including the goodwill balance (in thousands), percentage by which the fair value of the reporting unit exceeded its carrying value, and certain key assumptions used by us in determining the fair value of the reporting unit as of October 1, 2020: (1) For purposes of our goodwill impairment analysis, the term “capital expenditures” includes both growth investment and recurring capital expenditures. (2) Terminal growth rates are applied in year 10 of our discounted cash flow analysis. Reporting unit valuations have generally been determined using a combined approach based on the present value of future cash flows (the “Discounted Cash Flow Model”) and market multiples (the “Market Approach"). There are inherent uncertainties and judgments involved when determining the fair value of the reporting units for purposes of our annual goodwill impairment testing. The following includes supplemental information to the table above for the Global Data Center reporting unit where the estimated fair values exceeded its carrying value by less than 20% as of October 1, 2020. The success of this business and the achievement of certain key assumptions developed by management and used in the Discounted Cash Flow Model are contingent upon various factors including, but not limited to, (i) achieving growth from existing customers, (ii) sales to new customers, (iii) increased market penetration and (iv) accurately timing the capital investments related to expansions. Our Global Data Center Business footprint spans nine markets in the United States: Denver, Colorado; Kansas City, Missouri; Boston, Massachusetts; Boyers, Pennsylvania; Manassas, Virginia; Edison, New Jersey; Columbus, Ohio; and Phoenix and Scottsdale, Arizona and four international markets: Amsterdam, London, Singapore and, through an unconsolidated joint venture, Frankfurt. We provide mission-critical data centers that are designed and operated to protect and ensure the continued operation of IT infrastructure for our customers. Data centers are highly specialized and secure assets that serve as centralized repositories of server, storage and network equipment. They are capital intensive and designed to provide the space, power, cooling and network connectivity necessary to efficiently operate mission-critical IT equipment. The demand for data center infrastructure is being driven by many factors, but most importantly by significant growth in data as well as an increased demand for outsourcing. In order to attract and retain customers, as well as sustain growth in our existing and new markets, we must have the capability to tailor our facilities and invest capital to meet the customers’ needs. Our estimate of fair value reflects the expected growth in each of our data center markets along with the corresponding capital investments required to meet demand. The business is primarily comprised of acquisitions completed in 2018 and late 2017; therefore, we would expect that the fair value of this reporting unit will closely approximate its carrying value. Key factors that could reasonably be expected to have a negative impact on the estimated fair value of these reporting units and potentially result in impairment charges include, but are not limited to: (i) a deterioration in general economic conditions, (ii) significant adverse changes in regulatory factors or in the business climate, and (iii) adverse actions or assessment by regulators, all of which could result in adverse changes to the key assumptions used in valuing the reporting units. The inability to meet the assumptions used in the Discounted Cash Flow Model and Market Approach for each of the reporting units, or future adverse market conditions not currently known, could lead to a fair value that is less than the carrying value in any one of our reporting units. Reporting unit valuations have generally been determined using a combined approach based on the Discounted Cash Flow Model and Market Approach. The Discounted Cash Flow Model incorporates significant assumptions including future revenue growth rates, operating margins, discount rates and capital expenditures. The Market Approach requires us to make assumptions related to Adjusted EBITDA multiples. Changes in economic and operating conditions impacting these assumptions or changes in multiples could result in goodwill impairments in future periods. In conjunction with our annual goodwill impairment reviews, we reconcile the sum of the valuations of all of our reporting units to our market capitalization as of such dates. Part II Although we believe we have sufficient historical and projected information available to us to test for goodwill impairment, it is possible that actual results could differ from the estimates used in our impairment tests. Of the key assumptions that impact the goodwill impairment test, the expected future cash flows and discount rate are among the most sensitive and are considered to be critical assumptions, as changes to these estimates could have an effect on the estimated fair value of each of our reporting units. We have assessed the sensitivity of these assumptions on each of our reporting units as of October 1, 2020. At December 31, 2020, no factors were identified that would alter the conclusions of our October 1, 2020 goodwill impairment analysis. In making this assessment, we considered a number of factors including operating results, business plans, anticipated future cash flows, transactions and marketplace data. There are inherent uncertainties related to these factors and our judgment in applying them to the analysis of goodwill impairment. INCOME TAXES As a REIT, we are generally permitted to deduct from our federal taxable income the dividends we pay to our stockholders. The income represented by such dividends is not subject to federal taxation at the entity level but is taxed, if at all, at the stockholder level. The income of our domestic TRSs, which hold our domestic operations that may not be REIT-compliant as currently operated and structured, is subject, as applicable, to federal and state corporate income tax. In addition, we and our subsidiaries continue to be subject to foreign income taxes in other jurisdictions in which we have business operations or a taxable presence, regardless of whether assets are held or operations are conducted through subsidiaries disregarded for federal income tax purposes or TRSs. We will also be subject to a separate corporate income tax on any gains recognized on the sale or disposition of any asset previously owned by a C corporation during a five-year period after the date we first owned the asset as a REIT asset that are attributable to "built-in gains" with respect to that asset on that date. We will also be subject to a built-in gains tax on our depreciation recapture recognized into income as a result of accounting method changes in connection with our acquisition activities. If we fail to remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, we will be subject to federal income tax at regular corporate income tax rates. Even if we remain qualified for taxation as a REIT, we may be subject to some federal, state, local and foreign taxes on our income and property in addition to taxes owed with respect to our TRS operations. In particular, while state income tax regimes often parallel the federal income tax regime for REITs, many states do not completely follow federal rules and some do not follow them at all. See Note 9 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for additional details on our tax policies. Accounting for income taxes requires the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the tax and financial reporting bases of assets and liabilities and for loss and credit carryforwards. We measure deferred tax assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates expected to be applied to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences and carryforwards are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities as a result of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that the change is enacted. Valuation allowances are provided when recovery of deferred tax assets does not meet the more likely than not standard as defined in GAAP. Valuation allowances would be reversed as a reduction to the provision for income taxes if related deferred tax assets are deemed realizable based on changes in facts and circumstances relevant to the recoverability of the asset. Part II At December 31, 2020, we have federal and state net operating loss carryforwards of which we are expecting an insignificant tax benefit to be realized. We have assets for foreign net operating losses of $92.1 million, with various expiration dates (and in some cases no expiration date), subject to a valuation allowance of approximately 43%. If actual results differ unfavorably from certain of our estimates used, we may not be able to realize all or part of our net deferred income tax assets and additional valuation allowances may be required. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, no assurance can be given that our estimates reflected in the tax provisions and accruals will equal our actual results. These differences could have a material impact on our income tax provision and operating results in the period in which such determination is made. The evaluation of an uncertain tax position is a two-step process. The first step is a recognition process whereby we determine whether it is more likely than not that a tax position will be sustained upon examination, including resolution of any related appeals or litigation processes, based on the technical merits of the position. The second step is a measurement process whereby a tax position that meets the more likely than not recognition threshold is calculated to determine the amount of benefit to recognize in the financial statements. The tax position is measured as the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. We are subject to examination by various tax authorities in jurisdictions in which we have business operations or a taxable presence. We regularly assess the likelihood of additional assessments by tax authorities and provide for these matters as appropriate. As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, we had approximately $26.0 million and $35.1 million, respectively, of reserves related to uncertain tax positions. The reversal of these reserves will be recorded as a reduction of our income tax provision if sustained. Although we believe our tax estimates are appropriate, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could result in changes in our estimates. Following our conversion to a REIT in 2014, we concluded that it was not our intent to reinvest our current and future undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries indefinitely outside the United States. As of December 31, 2016, we concluded that it is our intent to indefinitely reinvest our current and future undistributed earnings of certain of our unconverted foreign TRSs outside the United States. With the exception of certain limited instances, we no longer provide incremental foreign withholding taxes on the retained book earnings of these unconverted foreign TRSs, which was approximately $262.4 million as of December 31, 2020. As a REIT, future repatriation of incremental undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries will not be subject to federal or state income tax, with the exception of foreign withholding taxes in limited instances; however, such future repatriations will require distribution in accordance with REIT distribution rules, and any such distribution may then be taxable, as appropriate, at the stockholder level. We continue, however, to provide for incremental foreign withholding taxes on net book over outside basis differences related to the earnings of our foreign QRSs and certain other foreign TRSs (excluding unconverted foreign TRSs). RESULTS OF OPERATIONS COMPARISON OF YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2020 TO YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2019 AND COMPARISON OF YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2019 TO YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2018 (IN THOUSANDS): (1) See “Non-GAAP Measures—Adjusted EBITDA” in this Annual Report for the definitions of Adjusted EBITDA and Adjusted EBITDA Margin, reconciliation of Adjusted EBITDA to Income (Loss) from Continuing Operations and a discussion of why we believe these non-GAAP measures provide relevant and useful information to our current and potential investors. Part II REVENUES Consolidated revenues consist of the following (in thousands): (1) Constant currency growth rates are calculated by translating the 2019 results at the 2020 average exchange rates and the 2018 results at the 2019 average exchange rates. (2) Our organic revenue growth rate, which is a non-GAAP measure, represents the year-over-year growth rate of our revenues excluding the impact of business acquisitions, divestitures and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations, but including the impact of acquisitions of customer relationships. TOTAL REVENUES For the year ended December 31, 2020, the decrease in reported consolidated revenue was driven by declines in reported service revenue partially offset by reported storage rental revenue growth. Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations decreased our reported consolidated revenues by 1.0% in the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the prior year period. STORAGE RENTAL REVENUES AND SERVICE REVENUES Primary factors influencing the change in reported storage rental revenue and reported service revenue for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the year ended December 31, 2019 include the following: Part II OPERATING EXPENSES COST OF SALES Consolidated Cost of sales (excluding depreciation and amortization) consists of the following expenses (in thousands): Primary factors influencing the change in reported consolidated Cost of sales for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the year ended December 31, 2019 include the following: • a decrease in labor costs driven by cost containment actions taken in response to lower service activity levels due to the COVID-19 pandemic, partially offset by incremental labor costs associated with recent acquisitions; • a decrease in transportation costs primarily driven by lower third party carrier cost and fuel cost reflecting cost containment actions taken in response to lower service activity levels; • an increase in facilities expenses driven by increases in rent expense, in part due to recent acquisitions and the impact from our recent sale-leaseback activity (which we expect to continue in 2021 as we continue to look for future opportunities to monetize a small portion of our owned industrial real estate assets as part of our ongoing capital recycling program); and • a decrease of $23.5 million due to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. Part II SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES Consolidated Selling, general and administrative expenses consists of the following expenses (in thousands): Primary factors influencing the change in reported consolidated Selling, general and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the year ended December 31, 2019 include the following: • a decrease in general and administrative expenses, driven by decreased wages and benefit expense and other employee related costs, as well as lower professional fees, reflecting benefits from Project Summit and ongoing cost containment measures, partially offset by higher bonus compensation accruals; • a decrease in sales, marketing and account management expenses, driven by decreased compensation expense and other employee related costs, reflecting benefits from Project Summit and ongoing cost containment measures; • higher bad debt expense, primarily driven by increased collectability risk resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic; and • foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations decreased reported consolidated Selling, general and administrative expenses by $9.4 million. DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION Our depreciation and amortization charges result primarily from depreciation related to storage systems, which include racking structures, buildings, building and leasehold improvements and computer systems hardware and software. Amortization relates primarily to customer relationship intangible assets, contract fulfillment costs and data center lease-based intangible assets. Both depreciation and amortization are impacted by the timing of acquisitions. Depreciation expense decreased $8.8 million, or 1.9%, on a reported dollar basis for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. See Note 2.h. to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for additional information regarding the useful lives over which our property, plant and equipment is depreciated. Amortization expense increased $2.6 million, or 1.3%, on a reported dollar basis for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. Part II SIGNIFICANT ACQUISITION COSTS Significant Acquisition Costs for the years ended December 31, 2020, 2019 and 2018 were approximately $0.0 million, $13.3 million and $50.7 million, respectively, and primarily consisted of operating expenditures associated with (1) our acquisition of Recall that we completed on May 2, 2016 (the “Recall Transaction"), including: (i) advisory and professional fees to complete the Recall Transaction; (ii) costs associated with the divestments required in connection with receipt of regulatory approvals (including transitional services); and (iii) costs to integrate Recall with our existing operations, including moving, severance, facility upgrade, REIT integration and system upgrade costs, as well as certain costs associated with our shared service center initiative for our finance, human resources and information technology functions; and (2) the advisory and professional fees to complete the IODC Transaction (collectively, “Significant Acquisition Costs”). RESTRUCTURING CHARGES Restructuring Charges for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 were approximately $194.4 million and $48.6 million, respectively, and primarily consisted of employee severance costs and professional fees associated with Project Summit. INTANGIBLE IMPAIRMENTS The intangible impairment charge for the year ended December 31, 2020 was $23.0 million and related to the write-down of goodwill associated with our Fine Arts reporting unit in the first quarter of 2020, as discussed above. GAIN ON DISPOSAL/WRITE-DOWN OF PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT, NET OTHER EXPENSES, NET INTEREST EXPENSE, NET Consolidated Interest Expense, Net decreased $0.8 million, to $418.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2020 from $419.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. The decrease in Interest Expense, Net during the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the year ended December 31, 2019 was mainly driven by a decrease in the weighted average interest rate on our outstanding debt, partially offset by higher average debt outstanding for the year ended December 31, 2020. Our weighted average interest rate, inclusive of the commitment fee on the unused portion of our Revolving Credit Facility (as defined below) and fees associated with the letters of credit, was 4.7% and 4.8% at December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. See Note 6 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for additional information regarding our indebtedness. Part II OTHER EXPENSE (INCOME), NET Consolidated other expense (income), net consists of the following (in thousands): FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSACTION LOSSES (GAINS), NET We recorded net foreign currency transaction losses of $29.8 million in the year ended December 31, 2020, based on period-end exchange rates. These losses resulted primarily from the impact of changes in the exchange rate of the British pound sterling against the United States dollar compared to December 31, 2019 on our intercompany balances with and between certain of our subsidiaries. DEBT EXTINGUISHMENT EXPENSE Debt extinguishment expense represents the call premiums and write-off of unamortized deferred financing costs associated with the early redemption of the 6% Notes, the 4 3 / 8 % Notes, the 5 3 / 4 % Notes, the CAD Notes, the Euro Notes and the 5 3 / 8 % Notes (as defined below). OTHER, NET Other, net for the year ended December 31, 2020 consists primarily of changes in the estimated value of our mandatorily redeemable noncontrolling interests as well as losses on our equity method investments. PROVISION (BENEFIT) FOR INCOME TAXES Our effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 were 7.9% and 18.3%, respectively. Our effective tax rate is subject to variability in the future due to, among other items: (1) changes in the mix of income between our QRSs and our TRSs, as well as among the jurisdictions in which we operate; (2) tax law changes; (3) volatility in foreign exchange gains and losses; (4) the timing of the establishment and reversal of tax reserves; and (5) our ability to utilize net operating losses that we generate. The primary reconciling items between the federal statutory tax rate of 21.0% and our overall effective tax rate were: As a REIT, we are entitled to a deduction for dividends paid, resulting in a substantial reduction of federal income tax expense. As a REIT, substantially all of our income tax expense will be incurred based on the earnings generated by our foreign subsidiaries and our domestic TRSs. We are subject to income taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. We are subject to examination by various tax authorities in jurisdictions in which we have business operations or a taxable presence. We regularly assess the likelihood of additional assessments by tax authorities and provide for these matters as appropriate. Although we believe our tax estimates are appropriate, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could result in changes in our estimates. Part II INCOME (LOSS) FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS AND ADJUSTED EBITDA The following table reflects the effect of the foregoing factors on our consolidated income (loss) from continuing operations and Adjusted EBITDA (in thousands): Part II SEGMENT ANALYSIS See the discussion of Business Segments under Item I and Note 10 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, both included in this Annual Report, for a description of our reportable operating segments. GLOBAL RIM BUSINESS (IN THOUSANDS) 3-YEAR SEGMENT ANALYSIS: GLOBAL RIM BUSINESS (IN MILLIONS) Primary factors influencing the change in revenue and Adjusted EBITDA Margin in our Global RIM Business segment for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the year ended December 31, 2019 include the following: • a decline in organic service revenue mainly driven by reduced service activity levels, primarily due to the COVID-19 pandemic; • organic storage rental revenue growth driven by revenue management; • a decrease in revenue of $45.7 million due to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations; • a 2.1% increase in global records management volume due to acquisitions (excluding acquisitions, global records management volume decreased 1.1%); and • a 150 basis point increase in Adjusted EBITDA Margin primarily driven by benefits from Project Summit, revenue management, favorable revenue mix and ongoing cost containment measures, partially offset by fixed cost deleverage on lower service revenues and higher bonus compensation accruals. Part II GLOBAL DATA CENTER BUSINESS (IN THOUSANDS) 3-YEAR SEGMENT ANALYSIS: GLOBAL DATA CENTER BUSINESS (IN MILLIONS) Primary factors influencing the change in revenue and Adjusted EBITDA Margin in our Global Data Center Business segment for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the year ended December 31, 2019 include the following: • organic revenue growth from leases signed in prior periods and service revenue growth, partially offset by churn of 680 basis points; • non-recurring revenue benefits in the prior year include a previously disclosed lease modification fee of $5.4 million, while non-recurring revenue benefits in the current year were $1.8 million; and • a 200 basis point decrease in Adjusted EBITDA Margin reflecting headwinds from flow through of non-recurring revenue benefits described above and a $4.0 million prior year contractual settlement, partially offset by ongoing cost containment measures. Part II CORPORATE AND OTHER BUSINESS (IN THOUSANDS) Primary factors influencing the change in revenue and Adjusted EBITDA in our Corporate and Other Business segment for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the year ended December 31, 2019 include the following: • a decline in organic service revenue due to lower service activity levels in our Fine Arts business, primarily related to the COVID-19 pandemic; and • a decrease in Adjusted EBITDA reflecting the impact of lower service activity in our Fine Arts business, increased information technology expenses and higher bonus compensation accruals, partially offset by benefits from Project Summit. Part II LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES GENERAL We expect to meet our short-term and long-term cash flow requirements through cash generated from operations, cash on hand, borrowings under our Credit Agreement (as defined below) and proceeds from monetizing a small portion of our total industrial real estate assets in the future, as well as other potential financings (such as the issuance of debt or equity). Our cash flow requirements, both in the near and long term, include, but are not limited to, capital expenditures, the repayment of outstanding debt, shareholder dividends, Project Summit initiatives, potential and pending business acquisitions and normal business operation needs. PROJECT SUMMIT As disclosed above, in October 2019, we announced Project Summit. We estimate that the implementation of Project Summit will result in total Restructuring Charges of approximately $450.0 million. From the inception of Project Summit through December 31, 2020, we have incurred approximately $243.0 million of Restructuring Charges related to Project Summit, primarily related to employee severance costs, internal costs associated with the development and implementation of Project Summit initiatives and professional fees. From the inception of Project Summit through December 31, 2020, we have also incurred approximately $10.1 million of capital expenditures. CASH FLOWS The following is a summary of our cash balances and cash flows (in thousands) as of and for the years ended December 31, A. CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES For the year ended December 31, 2020, net cash flows provided by operating activities increased by $21.0 million compared to the prior year period primarily due to an increase in cash provided by working capital of $125.6 million, primarily related to the timing of payments associated with certain accrued expenses offset by a decrease in net income (including non-cash charges and realized foreign exchange losses) of $104.6 million. B. CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES Our significant investing activities during the year ended December 31, 2020 are highlighted below: • We paid cash for capital expenditures of $438.3 million. Additional details of our capital spending are included in the “Capital Expenditures” section below. • We paid cash for acquisitions (net of cash acquired) of $118.6 million, primarily funded by borrowings under our Revolving Credit Facility. • We received $564.7 million in proceeds from sales of property, plant and equipment, primarily related to proceeds from sale-leaseback transactions of facilities during the third quarter and fourth quarter of 2020 and proceeds received in connection with the Frankfurt JV Transaction during the fourth quarter of 2020. C. CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES Our significant financing activities for the year ended December 31, 2020 included: • Net proceeds of $2,376.0 million associated with the June 2020 Offerings (as defined below). • Net proceeds of $1,089.0 million associated with the issuance of the 4 1 / 2 % Notes (as defined below). • Payments, including call premiums, of $2,942.6 million associated with the early redemption of the 4 3 / 8 % Notes, the 6% Notes, the 5 3 / 4 % Notes, the CAD Notes, the Euro Notes and the 5 3 / 8 % Notes (each as defined below). • Net payments of $664.9 million primarily associated with the repayments on our Revolving Credit Facility and Accounts Receivable Securitization Program (as defined below). • Payment of dividends in the amount of $716.3 million on our common stock. Part II CAPITAL EXPENDITURES We present two categories of capital expenditures: (1) Growth Investment Capital Expenditures and (2) Recurring Capital Expenditures with the following sub-categories: (i) Data Center; (ii) Real Estate; (iii) Innovation and Other (for Growth Investment Capital Expenditures only); and (iv) Non-Real Estate (for Recurring Capital Expenditures only). During 2020, a portion of what was previously categorized as Non-Real Estate Growth Capital Expenditures was recategorized as Real Estate Growth Capital Expenditures and the remaining portion was recategorized as Recurring Capital Expenditures. In addition, capital expenditures associated with restructuring (including Project Summit) and integration of acquisitions, which was previously categorized as recurring capital expenditures, have been recategorized as Innovation and Other. We have reclassified the categorization of our prior year capital expenditures to conform with our current presentation. GROWTH INVESTMENT CAPITAL EXPENDITURES: • Data Center: Expenditures primarily related to investments in new construction of data center facilities (including the acquisition of land and development of facilities) or capacity expansion in existing buildings. • Real Estate: Expenditures primarily related to investments in land, buildings, building improvements, leasehold improvements and racking structures to grow our revenues or achieve operational efficiencies. • Innovation and Other: Discretionary capital expenditures for significant new products and services, restructuring (including Project Summit), and integration of acquisitions. RECURRING CAPITAL EXPENDITURES: • Real Estate: Expenditures primarily related to the replacement of components of real estate assets such as buildings, building improvements, leasehold improvements and racking structures. • Non-Real Estate: Expenditures primarily related to the replacement of containers and shred bins, warehouse equipment, fixtures, computer hardware, or third-party or internally-developed software assets that support the maintenance of existing revenues or avoidance of an increase in costs. • Data Center: Expenditures related to the upgrade or re-configuration of existing data center assets. The following table presents our capital spend for 2020, 2019 and 2018 organized by the type of the spending as described above. Excluding capital expenditures associated with potential future acquisitions, we expect total capital expenditures of approximately $550.0 million for the year ending December 31, 2021. Of this, we expect our capital expenditures for growth investment to be approximately $410.0 million, and our recurring capital expenditures to be approximately $140.0 million. Our capital expenditures for growth investment includes Global Data Center Business development spend of approximately $300.0 million. DIVIDENDS See Note 8 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for information on dividends. Part II FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND DEBT Financial instruments that potentially subject us to credit risk consist principally of cash and cash equivalents (including money market funds) and accounts receivable. The only significant concentration of liquid investments as of December 31, 2020 is related to cash and cash equivalents. See Note 2.f. to Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for information on our money market funds. Long-term debt as of December 31, 2020 is as follows (in thousands): See Note 6 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for additional information regarding our long-term debt. CREDIT AGREEMENT Our credit agreement (the "Credit Agreement") consists of a revolving credit facility (the “Revolving Credit Facility”) and a term loan (the “Term Loan A”). The Revolving Credit Facility enables IMI and certain of its United States and foreign subsidiaries to borrow in United States dollars and (subject to sublimits) a variety of other currencies (including Canadian dollars, British pounds sterling and Euros, among other currencies) in an aggregate outstanding amount not to exceed $1,750.0 million. Under the Credit Agreement, we have the option to request additional commitments of up to $1,260.0 million, in the form of term loans or through increased commitments under the Revolving Credit Facility, subject to the conditions specified in the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement is scheduled to mature on June 4, 2023, at which point all obligations become due. The original principal amount of the Term Loan A was $250.0 million and is to be paid in quarterly installments in an amount equal to $3.1 million per quarter, with the remaining balance due on June 4, 2023. IMI and the Guarantors guarantee all obligations under the Credit Agreement. The interest rate on borrowings under the Credit Agreement varies depending on our choice of interest rate and currency options, plus an applicable margin, which varies based on our consolidated leverage ratio. Additionally, the Credit Agreement requires the payment of a commitment fee on the unused portion of the Revolving Credit Facility, which fee ranges from between 0.25% to 0.4% based on our consolidated leverage ratio and fees associated with outstanding letters of credit. As of December 31, 2020, we had no outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility and $215.6 million aggregate outstanding principal amount under the Term Loan A. At December 31, 2020, we had various outstanding letters of credit totaling $3.2 million under the Revolving Credit Facility. The amount available for borrowing under the Revolving Credit Facility as of December 31, 2020, which is based on IMI’s leverage ratio, the last 12 months' earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization and rent expense (“EBITDAR”), other adjustments as defined in the Credit Agreement and current external debt, was $1,746.8 million (which amount represents the maximum availability as of such date). Available borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility are subject to compliance with our indenture covenants as discussed below. The average interest rate in effect for all outstanding borrowings under the Credit Agreement was 1.9% as of December 31, 2020. Part II IMI’s wholly owned subsidiary, Iron Mountain Information Management, LLC (“IMIM”), has an incremental term loan B with a principal amount of $700.0 million (the “Term Loan B”). The Term Loan B, which matures on January 2, 2026, was issued at 99.75% of par. The Term Loan B holders benefit from the same security and guarantees as other borrowings under the Credit Agreement. The Term Loan B holders also benefit from the same affirmative and negative covenants as other borrowings under the Credit Agreement; however, the Term Loan B holders are not generally entitled to the benefits of the financial covenants under the Credit Agreement. Principal payments on the Term Loan B are to be paid in quarterly installments of $1.8 million per quarter during the period June 30, 2018 through December 31, 2025, with the balance due on January 2, 2026. The Term Loan B may be prepaid without penalty at any time. The Term Loan B bears interest at a rate of LIBOR plus 1.75%. As of December 31, 2020, we had $679.6 million aggregate outstanding principal amount under the Term Loan B. The interest rate in effect under Term Loan B as of December 31, 2020 was 1.9%. JUNE 2020 OFFERINGS On June 22, 2020, IMI completed private offerings of (i) $500.0 million in aggregate principal amount of the 5% Notes, (ii) $1,300.0 million in aggregate principal amount of the 5 1 / 4 % Notes due 2030 and (iii) $600.0 million in aggregate principal amount of the 5 5 / 8 % Notes (collectively, the “June 2020 Offerings”). The 5% Notes, the 5 1 / 4 % Notes due 2030 and the 5 5 / 8 % Notes were issued at 100.000% of par. The total net proceeds of approximately $2,376.0 million from the June 2020 Offerings, after deducting the initial purchasers’ commissions, were used to redeem all of the 4 3 / 8 % Senior Notes due 2021 (“the 4 3 / 8 % Notes”), the 6% Senior Notes due 2023 (the “6% Notes”) and the 5 3 / 4 % Senior Subordinated Notes due 2024 (the "5 3 / 4 % Notes”) and to repay a portion of the outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility. On June 29, 2020, we redeemed all of the $500.0 million in aggregate principal outstanding of the 4 3 / 8 % Notes at 100.000% of par and all of the $600.0 million in aggregate principal outstanding of the 6% Notes at 102.000% of par, plus, in each case, accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the redemption date. We recorded a charge of approximately $17.0 million to Other expense (income), net during the second quarter of 2020 related to the early extinguishment of this debt, representing the call premium associated with the early redemption of the 6% Notes, as well as a write-off of unamortized deferred financing costs associated with the early redemption of the 4 3 / 8 % Notes and the 6% Notes. On July 2, 2020, we redeemed all of the $1,000.0 million in aggregate principal outstanding of the 5 3 / 4 % Notes at 100.958% of par, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the redemption date. We recorded a charge of approximately $15.3 million to Other expense (income), net during the third quarter of 2020 related to the early extinguishment of this debt, representing the call premium and write-off of unamortized deferred financing fees. AUGUST 2020 OFFERING On August 18, 2020, IMI completed a private offering of $1,100.0 million in aggregate principal amount of the 4 1 / 2 % Notes. The 4 1 / 2 % Notes were issued at 100.000% of par. The total net proceeds of approximately $1,089.0 million from the issuance of the 4 1 / 2 % Notes, after deducting the initial purchasers’ commissions, were used to redeem all of the 5 3 / 8 % CAD Senior Notes due 2023 (the “CAD Notes”), the 3% Euro Senior Notes due 2025 (the “Euro Notes”) and the 5 3 / 8 % Senior Notes due 2026 (the “5 3 / 8 % Notes”) and to repay a portion of the outstanding borrowings under the Revolving Credit Facility. On August 21, 2020, we redeemed all of the 250.0 million CAD in aggregate principal outstanding of the CAD Notes at 104.031% of par, 300.0 million Euro in aggregate principal outstanding of the Euro Notes at 101.500% of par and $250.0 million in aggregate principal outstanding of the 5 3 / 8 % Notes at 106.628% of par, plus, in each case accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the redemption date. We recorded a charge of approximately $36.0 million to Other expense (income), net during the third quarter of 2020 related to the early extinguishment of the CAD Notes, the Euro Notes and the 5 3 / 8 % Notes, representing the call premiums and write off unamortized deferred financing costs associated with the early redemption of these debt instruments. ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE SECURITIZATION PROGRAM We participate in an accounts receivable securitization program (the “Accounts Receivable Securitization Program”) involving several of our wholly owned subsidiaries and certain financial institutions. Under the Accounts Receivable Securitization Program, certain of our subsidiaries sell substantially all of their United States accounts receivable balances to our wholly owned special purpose entities, Iron Mountain Receivables QRS, LLC and Iron Mountain Receivables TRS, LLC (the “Accounts Receivable Securitization Special Purpose Subsidiaries”). The Accounts Receivable Securitization Special Purpose Subsidiaries use the accounts receivable balances to collateralize loans obtained from certain financial institutions. The Accounts Receivable Securitization Special Purpose Subsidiaries are consolidated subsidiaries of IMI. IMIM retains the responsibility of servicing the accounts receivable balances pledged as collateral for the Accounts Receivable Securitization Program and IMI provides a performance guaranty. The maximum availability allowed is limited by eligible accounts receivable, as defined under the terms of the Accounts Receivable Securitization Program. Part II On March 31, 2020, we amended the Accounts Receivable Securitization Program to (i) increase the maximum amount available from $275.0 million to $300.0 million and (ii) extend the maturity date from July 30, 2020 to July 30, 2021, at which point all obligations become due. The full amount outstanding under the Accounts Receivable Securitization Program is classified within the current portion of long-term debt in our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 2020. As of December 31, 2020, the maximum availability allowed and amount outstanding under the Accounts Receivable Securitization Program was $274.1 million and $85.0 million, respectively. The interest rate in effect under the Accounts Receivable Securitization Program was 1.1% as of December 31, 2020. Commitment fees at a rate of 40 basis points are charged on amounts made available but not borrowed under the Accounts Receivable Securitization Program. LETTERS OF CREDIT As of December 31, 2020, we had outstanding letters of credit totaling $36.2 million, of which $3.2 million reduce our borrowing capacity under the Revolving Credit Facility (as described above). The letters of credit expire at various dates between January 2021 and January 2033. DEBT COVENANTS The Credit Agreement (as defined in Note 6 to Notes of Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report), our bond indentures and other agreements governing our indebtedness contain certain restrictive financial and operating covenants, including covenants that restrict our ability to complete acquisitions, pay cash dividends, incur indebtedness, make investments, sell assets and take certain other corporate actions. The covenants do not contain a rating trigger. Therefore, a change in our debt rating would not trigger a default under the Credit Agreement, our bond indentures or other agreements governing our indebtedness. The Credit Agreement requires that we satisfy a fixed charge coverage ratio, a net total lease adjusted leverage ratio and a net secured debt lease adjusted leverage ratio on a quarterly basis and our bond indentures require that, among other things, we satisfy a leverage ratio (not lease adjusted) or a fixed charge coverage ratio (not lease adjusted), as a condition to taking actions such as paying dividends and incurring indebtedness. The Credit Agreement uses EBITDAR-based calculations and the bond indentures use EBITDA-based calculations as the primary measures of financial performance for purposes of calculating leverage and fixed charge coverage ratios. The bond indenture EBITDA-based calculations include our consolidated subsidiaries, other than those we have designated as “Unrestricted Subsidiaries” as defined in the bond indentures. Generally, the Credit Agreement and the bond indentures use a trailing four fiscal quarter basis for purposes of the relevant calculations and require certain adjustments and exclusions for purposes of those calculations, which make the calculation of financial performance for purposes of those calculations under the Credit Agreement and bond indentures not directly comparable to Adjusted EBITDA as presented herein. These adjustments can be significant. For example, the calculation of financial performance under the Credit Agreement and certain of our bond indentures includes (subject to specified exceptions and caps) adjustments for non-cash charges and for expected benefits associated with (i) completed acquisitions, (ii) certain executed lease agreements associated with our data center business that have yet to commence, and (iii) restructuring and other strategic initiatives, such as Project Summit. The calculation of financial performance under our other bond indentures includes, for example, adjustments for non-cash charges and for expected benefits associated with (i) completed acquisitions, and (ii) events that are extraordinary, unusual or non-recurring, such as the COVID-19 pandemic. Our leverage and fixed charge coverage ratios under the Credit Agreement and our indentures as of December 31, 2020 are as follows: (1) The maximum allowable leverage ratio under our indentures for the GBP Notes due 2025, the 4 7 / 8 % Notes due 2027, the 5 1 / 4 % Notes due 2028 and the 4 7 / 8 % Notes due 2029 is 7.0. As of December 31, 2020, we no longer have any indentures subject to a maximum leverage ratio of 6.5. The indentures for the 5% Notes, the 5 1 / 4 % Notes due 2030, the 4 1 / 2 % Notes and the 5 5 / 8 % Notes do not include a maximum leverage ratio covenant; the indentures for these notes instead require us to maintain a minimum fixed charge coverage ratio of 2.0. In certain instances as provided in our indentures, we have the ability to incur additional indebtedness that would result in our bond leverage ratio or bond fixed charge coverage ratio exceeding or falling below the maximum or minimum permitted ratio under our indentures and still remain in compliance with the applicable covenant. Noncompliance with these leverage and fixed charge coverage ratios would have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and liquidity. ___________________________________________________________________________________________________ Our ability to pay interest on or to refinance our indebtedness depends on our future performance, working capital levels and capital structure, which are subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors which may be beyond our control. There can be no assurance that we will generate sufficient cash flow from our operations or that future financings will be available on acceptable terms or in amounts sufficient to enable us to service or refinance our indebtedness or to make necessary capital expenditures. Part II DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS INTEREST RATE SWAP AGREEMENTS In March 2018, we entered into interest rate swap agreements to limit our exposure to changes in interest rates on a portion of our floating rate indebtedness. As of December 31, 2020, we had $350.0 million in notional value of interest rate swap agreements outstanding, which expire in March 2022. Under the interest rate swap agreements, we receive variable rate interest payments associated with the notional amount of each interest rate swap, based upon one-month LIBOR, in exchange for the payment of fixed interest rates as specified in the interest rate swap agreements. In July 2019, we entered into forward-starting interest rate swap agreements to limit our exposure to changes in interest rates on a portion of our floating rate indebtedness once our current interest rate swap agreements expire in March 2022. The forward-starting interest rate swap agreements have $350.0 million in notional value, commence in March 2022 and expire in March 2024. Under the swap agreements, we will receive variable rate interest payments based upon one-month LIBOR, in exchange for the payment of fixed interest rates as specified in the interest rate swap agreements. We have designated these interest rate swap agreements, including the forward-starting interest rate swap agreements, as cash flow hedges. CROSS-CURRENCY SWAP AGREEMENTS We enter into cross-currency swap agreements to hedge the variability of exchange rate impacts between the United States dollar and the Euro. The cross-currency swap agreements are designated as a hedge of net investment against certain of our Euro denominated subsidiaries and require an exchange of the notional amounts at maturity. In August 2019, we entered into cross-currency swap agreements whereby we notionally exchanged approximately $110.0 million at an interest rate of 6.0% for approximately 99.1 million Euros at a weighted average interest rate of approximately 3.65%. These cross-currency swap agreements expire in August 2023. In September 2020, we entered into cross-currency swap agreements whereby we notionally exchanged approximately $359.2 million at an interest rate of 4.5% for approximately 300.0 million Euros at a weighted average interest rate of approximately 3.4%. These cross-currency swap agreements expire in February 2026. See Note 5 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for additional information on our derivative instruments. EQUITY FINANCING In 2017, we entered into a Distribution Agreement with the Agents pursuant to which we may sell, from time to time, up to an aggregate sales price of $500.0 million of our common stock through the At The Market (ATM) Equity Program. Sales of our common stock made pursuant to the Distribution Agreement may be made in negotiated transactions or transactions that are deemed to be “at the market” offerings as defined in Rule 415 under the Securities Act, including sales made directly on the NYSE, or sales made to or through a market maker other than on an exchange, or as otherwise agreed between the applicable Agent and us. We intend to use the net proceeds from sales of our common stock pursuant to the At The Market (ATM) Equity Program for general corporate purposes, which may include acquisitions and investments, including acquisitions and investments in our Global Data Center Business, and repaying amounts outstanding from time to time under the Revolving Credit Facility. During the quarter and year ended December 31, 2020, there were no shares of common stock sold under the At The Market (ATM) Equity Program. As of December 31, 2020, the remaining aggregate sale price of shares of our common stock available for distribution under the At The Market (ATM) Equity Program was approximately $431.2 million. Part II ACQUISITIONS AND JOINT VENTURES See Note 3 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report for information regarding our 2020 acquisitions and joint ventures. OSG ACQUISITION On January 9, 2020, we completed the acquisition of OSG Records Management (Europe) Limited ("OSG" and such acquisition, the "OSG Acquisition") for cash consideration of approximately $95.5 million. The OSG Acquisition enabled us to extend our Global RIM Business in Russia, Ukraine, Kazakhstan, Belarus, and Armenia. The results of OSG are fully consolidated within our consolidated financial statements from the closing date of the OSG Acquisition. GLENBEIGH ACQUISITION On February 17, 2020, in order to enhance our existing operations in the United Arab Emirates, we acquired Glenbeigh Records Management DWC-LLC, a storage and records management company, for total cash consideration of approximately $29.1 million. MAKESPACE JV CAPITAL CONTRIBUTION In March 2019, we formed the MakeSpace JV with MakeSpace Labs, Inc. In the second quarter of 2020, we committed to participate in a round of equity funding for the MakeSpace JV whereby we agreed to contribute $36.0 million of the $45.0 million being raised in installments beginning in May 2020 through October 2021 . We account for our investment in the MakeSpace JV as an equity method investment, and the carrying value is presented as a component of Other within Other assets, net in our Consolidated Balance Sheet. At December 31, 2020, we owned approximately 39% of the outstanding equity in the MakeSpace JV and the carrying value of our investment in the MakeSpace JV at December 31, 2020 was approximately $16.9 million. FORMATION OF FRANKFURT JOINT VENTURE In October 2020, we formed a joint venture (the "Frankfurt JV") with AGC Equity Partners ("AGC") to design and develop a 280,000 square foot, 27 megawatt, hyperscale data center currently under development in Frankfurt, Germany (the “Frankfurt JV Transaction”). AGC acquired an 80% equity interest in the Frankfurt JV, while we retained a 20% equity interest (the "Frankfurt JV Investment"). The total cash consideration for the 80% equity interest sold to AGC was approximately $105.0 million. We received approximately $93.3 million (gross of certain transaction expenses) upon the closing of the Frankfurt JV, and we are entitled to receive an additional approximately $11.7 million upon the completion of development of the data center, which we expect to occur in the second quarter of 2021. As a result of the Frankfurt JV Transaction, we recognized a gain of approximately $24.1 million, representing the excess of the fair value of the consideration received over the carrying value of the assets, which consisted primarily of land and land development assets which were previously included within our Global Data Center Business segment. We account for our Frankfurt JV Investment as an equity method investment. At the closing date of the Frankfurt JV Transaction, the fair value of the Frankfurt JV Investment was approximately $23.3 million. The carrying value of our Frankfurt JV Investment at December 31, 2020 was $26.5 million, which is presented as a component of Other within Other assets, net in our Consolidated Balance Sheet. NET OPERATING LOSSES At December 31, 2020, we have federal and state net operating loss carryforwards of which we are expecting an insignificant tax benefit to be realized. We have assets for foreign net operating losses of $92.1 million, with various expiration dates (and in some cases no expiration date), subject to a valuation allowance of approximately 43%. Part II