********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

In addition to the factors outlined previously in this Form 10-K regarding forward-looking statements and other comments regarding risks and uncertainties, the following risk factors should be carefully considered when evaluating our business. Our business, financial condition or financial results could be materially and adversely affected by any of these risks. Risks Related to Our Industry Our business is significantly impacted by economic conditions, customer business cycles and seasonal factors. Our business is dependent on the freight shipping needs of our customers, which can be heavily impacted by economic conditions and other factors affecting their businesses. Recessionary economic cycles and downturns in customers’ business cycles, particularly in market segments and industries where we have a significant concentration of customers, may substantially reduce freight volumes for which our customers need transportation services and lead to excess capacity in the industry and resulting pressure on the rates we are able to obtain for our services. Adverse economic conditions may also require us to increase our reserve for bad debt losses. In addition, our results of operations may be affected by seasonal factors. Customers tend to reduce shipments after the winter holiday season, and our operating expenses tend to be higher in the winter months, primarily due to colder weather, which causes higher fuel consumption from increased idle time and higher maintenance costs. Any of these factors could have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business is significantly impacted by the effects of national or international health pandemics on general economic conditions and the operations of our customers and third-party suppliers and service providers. Our operations can be heavily impacted by the effects of a widespread outbreak of contagious disease, principally the recent outbreak of the COVID-19 virus. The effects of the COVID-19 pandemic have and may continue to disrupt or restrict the freight shipping activities of some of our customers, on which our business is dependent. In addition, adverse economic conditions caused by COVID-19 may also require us to increase our reserve for bad debt losses. Furthermore, the continuation or resumption of COVID-19 related social and economic disruptions may lead to other events which could negatively impact our operations including service limitations of our third-party purchased transportation providers, reduced availability of drivers and other key employees, disruptions in the procurement of revenue equipment, restrictions at U.S. ports of call, excess capacity or rate reductions within the intermodal or trucking industries, inability of suppliers to continue activities, or volatile financial credit markets. The extent to which the COVID-19 outbreak and any future resurgences will impact general economic and business conditions is highly uncertain and unpredictable; however, any of these factors could have a significant adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Extreme or unusual weather conditions can disrupt our operations, impact freight volumes, and increase our costs, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our business results. Certain weather conditions such as ice and snow can disrupt our operations. Increases in the cost of our operations, such as towing and other maintenance activities, frequently occur during the winter months. Natural disasters such as hurricanes and flooding can also impact freight volumes and increase our costs. 8 Our operations are subject to various environmental laws and regulations, including legislative and regulatory responses to climate change. Compliance with environmental requirements could result in significant expenditures and the violation of these regulations could result in substantial fines or penalties. We are subject to various environmental laws and regulations dealing with the handling of hazardous materials, underground fuel storage tanks, and discharge and retention of storm water. We operate in industrial areas, where truck terminals and other industrial activities are located and where groundwater or other forms of environmental contamination have occurred. Our operations involve the risks of fuel spillage or seepage, environmental damage, and hazardous waste disposal, among others. We also maintain bulk fuel storage and fuel islands at several of our facilities. If a spill or other accident involving hazardous substances occurs, or if we are found to be in violation of applicable laws or regulations, it could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. If we should fail to comply with applicable environmental regulations, we could be subject to substantial fines or penalties and to civil and criminal liability. We are also subject to existing and potential future laws and regulations with regards to public policy on climate change. If current regulatory requirements become more stringent or new environmental laws and regulations regarding climate change are introduced, we could be required to make significant expenditures or abandon certain activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. We depend on third parties in the operation of our business. Our JBI business segment utilizes railroads in the performance of its transportation services. The majority of these services are provided pursuant to contractual relationships with the railroads. While we have agreements with a number of Class I railroads, the majority of our business travels on the BNSF and the Norfolk Southern railways. The transportation services provided by these railroads have been in recent years and may from time to time in the future be impacted by contractual disagreements, labor disruptions or shortages, and other rail network inefficiencies. A material change in the relationship with, the ability to utilize or the overall service levels provided by one or more of these railroads could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. In addition, a portion of the freight we deliver is imported to the United States through ports of call that are subject to labor union contracts. Work stoppages or other disruptions at any of these ports could have a material adverse effect on our business. We regularly purchase new revenue equipment, including trucks, chassis and trailing equipment, in each of our operating segments to expand our fleets and replace aging equipment. Since the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic, equipment manufacturers have experienced production and delivery delays due to work stoppages, supply chain disruptions and high demand that have impacted the availability, cost and timing of our receipt of new equipment orders. Any continued or future delays in the availability of new revenue equipment or further increases in the cost of such equipment could have a material adverse affect on our business and profitability by reducing productivity, increasing maintenance expenses and capital expenditures, and limiting our ability to expand our business. We also utilize independent contractors and third-party carriers to complete our services. These third parties are subject to similar regulation requirements, which may have a more significant impact on their operations, causing them to exit the transportation industry. Aside from when these third parties may use our trailing equipment to fulfill loads, we do not own the revenue equipment or control the drivers delivering these loads. The inability to obtain reliable third-party carriers and independent contractors could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and business growth. Rapid changes in fuel costs could impact our periodic financial results. Fuel costs can be very volatile. We have a fuel surcharge revenue program in place with the majority of our customers, which has historically enabled us to recover the majority of higher fuel costs. Most of these programs automatically adjust weekly depending on the cost of fuel. However, there can be timing differences between a change in our fuel cost and the timing of the fuel surcharges billed to our customers. In addition, we incur additional costs when fuel price increases cannot be fully recovered due to our engines being idled during cold or warm weather and empty or out-of-route miles that cannot be billed to customers. Rapid increases in fuel costs or shortages of fuel could have a material adverse effect on our operations or future profitability. As of December 31, 2022, we had no derivative financial instruments to reduce our exposure to fuel-price fluctuations. 9 Insurance and claims expenses could significantly reduce our earnings. Our future insurance and claims expenses might exceed historical levels, which could reduce our earnings. We have experienced substantial increases in the number and severity of auto liability claims which have exceeded our insurance coverage layers, which has adversely impacted our operating results in recent periods. If the number or severity of claims for which we are self-insured continues to increase, our operating results could be further adversely affected. We have policies in place for 2023 with substantially the same terms as our 2022 policies for personal injury, property damage, workers’ compensation, and cargo loss or damage. We purchase insurance coverage for the amounts above which we are self-insured. If these expenses increase and we are unable to offset the increase with higher freight rates, our earnings could be materially and adversely affected. We operate in a regulated industry, and increased direct and indirect costs of compliance with, or liability for violation of, existing or future regulations could have a material adverse effect on our business. The DOT, FMCSA, and various state agencies exercise broad powers over our business, generally governing matters including authorization to engage in motor carrier service, equipment operation, safety, and financial reporting. We are audited periodically by the DOT to ensure that we are in compliance with various safety, hours-of-service, and other rules and regulations. If we were found to be out of compliance, the DOT could restrict or otherwise impact our operations. Our failure to comply with any applicable laws, rules or regulations to which we are subject, whether actual or alleged, could expose us to fines, penalties or potential litigation liabilities, including costs, settlements and judgments. Further, these agencies could institute new laws, rules or regulations or issue interpretation changes to existing regulations at any time. Compliance with new laws, rules or regulations could substantially impair labor and equipment productivity, increase our costs or impact our ability to offer certain services. Difficulty in attracting and retaining drivers and delivery personnel could affect our profitability and ability to grow. If we are unable to attract and retain the necessary quality and number of employees, we could be required to significantly increase our employee compensation package, let revenue equipment sit idle, dispose of the equipment altogether, or rely more on higher-cost third-party carriers, which could adversely affect our growth and profitability. In addition, our growth could be limited by an inability to attract third-party carriers upon whom we rely to provide transportation services. We operate in a competitive and highly fragmented industry. Numerous factors could impair our ability to maintain our current profitability and to compete with other carriers and private fleets. We compete with many other transportation service providers of varying sizes and, to a lesser extent, with LTL carriers and railroads, some of which have more equipment and greater capital resources than we do. Additionally, some of our competitors periodically reduce their freight rates to gain business, especially during times of reduced growth rates in the economy, which may limit our ability to maintain or increase freight rates or to maintain our profit margins. In an effort to reduce the number of carriers it uses, a customer often selects so-called “core carriers” as approved transportation service providers, and in some instances, we may not be selected. Many customers periodically accept bids from multiple carriers for their shipping needs, and this process may depress freight rates or result in the loss of some business to competitors. Also, certain customers that operate private fleets to transport their own freight could decide to expand their operations, thereby reducing their need for our services. Risks Related to Our Business We derive a significant portion of our revenue from a few major customers, the loss of one or more of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. For the calendar year ended December 31, 2022, our top 10 customers, based on revenue, accounted for approximately 38% of our revenue. One customer accounted for approximately 14% of our total revenue for the year ended December 31, 2022. Our JBI, ICS, and JBT segments typically do not have long-term contracts with their customers. While our DCS and FMS segments may involve long-term written contracts, those contracts may contain cancellation clauses, and there is no assurance that our current customers will continue to utilize our services or continue at the same levels. A reduction in or termination of our services by one or more of our major customers could have a material adverse effect on our business and operating results. 10 A determination that independent contractors are employees could expose us to various liabilities and additional costs. Federal and state legislation as well as tax and other regulatory authorities have sought to assert that independent contractors in the transportation service industry are employees rather than independent contractors. An example of such legislation has recently gone into effect in California, although a legal challenge to the law is pending. There can be no assurance that interpretations that support the independent contractor status will not change, that other federal or state legislation will not be enacted or that various authorities will not successfully assert a position that re-classifies independent contractors to be employees. If our independent contractors are determined to be our employees, that determination could materially increase our exposure under a variety of federal and state tax, workers’ compensation, unemployment benefits, labor, employment and tort laws, as well as our potential liability for employee benefits. In addition, such changes may be applied retroactively, and if so, we may be required to pay additional amounts to compensate for prior periods. Any of the above increased costs would adversely affect our business and operating results. We may be subject to litigation claims that could result in significant expenditures. We by the nature of our operations are exposed to the potential for a variety of litigation, including personal injury claims, vehicular collisions and accidents, alleged violations of federal and state labor and employment laws, such as class-action lawsuits alleging wage and hour violations and improper pay, commercial and contract disputes, cargo loss and property damage claims. While we purchase insurance coverage at levels we deem adequate, future litigation may exceed our insurance coverage or may not be covered by insurance. We accrue a provision for a litigation matter according to applicable accounting standards based on the ongoing assessment of the strengths and weaknesses of the litigation, its likelihood of success, and an evaluation of the possible range of loss. Our inability to defend ourselves against a significant litigation claim could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. We rely significantly on our information technology systems, a disruption, failure or security breach of which or an inability to keep pace with technological advances could have a material adverse effect on our business. We rely on information technology throughout all areas of our business to initiate, track, and complete customer orders; process financial and nonfinancial data; compile results of operations for internal and external reporting; and achieve operating efficiencies and growth. We have also invested significantly in the development of our Marketplace for J.B. Hunt 360 online freight matching platform, through which we are generating an increasing amount of revenue. Each of our information technology systems may be susceptible to various interruptions, including equipment or network failures, failed upgrades or replacement of software, user error, power outages, natural disasters, cyber-attacks, theft or misuse of data, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, hackers, or other security breaches. We may in the future experience security breaches and other interruptions of our information technology systems despite our best efforts to prevent them. We have mitigated our exposure to these risks through the establishment and maintenance of technology security programs and disaster recovery plans, but these mitigating activities may not be sufficient. A significant disruption, failure or security breach in our information technology systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, which could include operational disruptions, loss of confidential information, external reporting delays or errors, legal claims, or damage to our business reputation. We also could experience an inability to keep pace with technological advances, resulting in our information technology platforms becoming obsolete or our competitors developing related or similar service offerings more effective than ours. 11 Acquisitions or business combinations may disrupt or have a material adverse effect on our operations or earnings. A substantial portion of the growth of our FMS segment has resulted from strategic acquisitions, and our future growth strategy for FMS and possibly other operating segments may involve the acquisition of one or more businesses. We could have difficulty integrating acquired companies’ assets, personnel and operations with our own.  Regardless of whether we are successful in making an acquisition or completing a business combination, the negotiations could disrupt our ongoing business, distract our management and employees, and increase our operating costs.  Acquisitions and business combinations are accompanied by a number of inherent risks, including, without limitation, the difficulty of integrating acquired companies and operations; potential disruption of our ongoing businesses and distraction of our management or the management of acquired companies; difficulties in maintaining controls, procedures and policies; potential impairment of relationships with employees and partners as a result of any integration of new management personnel; potential inability to manage an increased number of locations and employees; failure to realize expected efficiencies, synergies and cost savings; or the effect of any government regulations which relate to the businesses acquired. Our business could be materially impacted if and to the extent that we are unable to succeed in addressing any of these risks or other problems encountered in connection with an acquisition or business combination involving FMS or other segments, many of which cannot be presently identified.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion of our results of operations and financial condition should be read in conjunction with our financial statements and related notes in Item 8. This discussion contains forward-looking statements. Please see “ Forward-looking Statements ” and “ Risk Factors ” for a discussion of items, uncertainties, assumptions and risks associated with these statements. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES The preparation of our financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires us to make estimates and assumptions that impact the amounts reported in our Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes. Therefore, the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and associated disclosures of contingent liabilities are affected by these estimates. We evaluate these estimates on an ongoing basis, utilizing historical experience, consultation with third parties and other methods considered reasonable in the particular circumstances. Nevertheless, actual results may differ significantly from our estimates. Any effects on our business, financial position or results of operations resulting from revisions to these estimates are recognized in the accounting period in which the facts that give rise to the revision become known. We consider our critical accounting policies and estimates to be those that require us to make more significant judgments and estimates when we prepare our financial statements and include the following: Workers ’ Compensation and Accident Costs We purchase insurance coverage for a portion of expenses related to employee injuries, vehicular collisions, accidents, and cargo damage. Certain insurance arrangements include a level of self-insurance (deductible) coverage applicable to each claim. We have umbrella policies to limit our exposure to catastrophic claim costs which may include certain coverage-layer-specific, aggregated reimbursement limits of covered excess claims. We are substantially self-insured for loss of and damage to our owned and leased revenue equipment. The amounts of self-insurance change from time to time based on measurement dates, policy expiration dates, and claim type. For 2020 through 2022, we were self-insured for $500,000 per occurrence as well as subject to coverage-layer-specific, aggregated reimbursement limits of covered excess claims for personal injury and property damage. We were fully insured for workers’ compensation claims for nearly all states. We have policies in place for 2023 with substantially the same terms as our 2022 policies for personal injury, property damage, workers’ compensation, and cargo loss or damage. Our claims accrual policy for all self-insured claims is to recognize a liability at the time of the incident based on our analysis of the nature and severity of the claims and analyses provided by third-party claims administrators, as well as legal, economic, and regulatory factors. Our safety and claims personnel work directly with representatives from the insurance companies to continually update the estimated cost of each claim. The ultimate cost of a claim develops over time as additional information regarding the nature, timing, and extent of damages claimed becomes available. Accordingly, we use an actuarial method to develop current claim information to derive an estimate of our ultimate personal injury and property damage claim liability. This process involves the use of expected loss rates, loss-development factors based on our historical claims experience, claim frequencies and severity, and contractual premium adjustment factors, if applicable. In doing so, the recorded liability considers future claims growth and provides a reserve for incurred-but-not-reported claims. We do not discount our estimated losses. At December 31, 2022, we had an accrual of approximately $427 million for estimated claims. A significant increase in the volume of claims or amount of settlements exceeding our coverage-layer specific, aggregated reimbursement limits could result in significant increase in our estimated liability for claims in future periods. In addition, we record receivables for amounts expected to be reimbursed for payments made in excess of self-insurance levels on covered claims.  At December 31, 2022, we have recorded $374 million of expected reimbursement for covered excess claims, other insurance deposits, and prepaid insurance premiums. 15 Revenue Equipment We operate a significant number of tractors, trucks, containers, chassis, and trailers in connection with our business. This equipment may be purchased or acquired under lease agreements. In addition, we may rent revenue equipment from various third parties under short-term rental arrangements. Purchased revenue equipment is depreciated on the straight-line method over the estimated useful life to an estimated salvage or trade-in value. We periodically review the useful lives and salvage values of our revenue equipment and evaluate our long-lived assets for impairment. We have not identified any impairment to our assets at December 31, 2022. We have agreements with our primary tractor suppliers for residual or trade-in values for certain new equipment. We have utilized these trade-in values, as well as other operational information such as anticipated annual miles, in accounting for depreciation expense. Revenue Recognition We record revenues on the gross basis at amounts charged to our customers because we control and are primarily responsible for the fulfillment of promised services. Accordingly, we serve as a principal in the transaction. We invoice our customers, and we maintain discretion over pricing. Additionally, we are responsible for selection of third-party transportation providers to the extent used to satisfy customer freight requirements. We recognize revenue from customer contracts based on relative transit time in each reporting period and as other performance obligations are provided, with related expenses recognized as incurred. Accordingly, a portion of the total revenue that will be billed to the customer is recognized in each reporting period based on the percentage of the freight pickup and delivery performance obligation that has been completed at the end of the reporting period. Our trade accounts receivable includes accounts receivable reduced by an allowance for uncollectible accounts. Receivables are recorded at amounts billed to customers when loads are delivered or services are performed. The allowance for uncollectible accounts is calculated over the life of the underlying receivable and is based on historical experience; any known trends or uncertainties related to customer billing and account collectability; current economic conditions; and reasonable and supportable economic forecasts, each applied to segregated risk pools based on the business segment that generated the receivable. The adequacy of our allowance is reviewed quarterly. Income Taxes We account for income taxes under the liability method. Our deferred tax assets and liabilities represent items that will result in a tax deduction or taxable income in future years for which we have already recorded the related tax expense or benefit in our statement of earnings. Deferred tax accounts arise as a result of timing differences between when items are recognized in our Consolidated Financial Statements and when they are recognized in our tax returns. We assess the likelihood that deferred tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income or the reversal of temporary timing differences. To the extent we believe recovery does not meet the more-likely-than-not threshold, a valuation allowance is established. To the extent we establish a valuation allowance, we include an expense as part of our income tax provision. Significant judgment is required in determining and assessing the impact of complex tax laws and certain tax-related contingencies on our provision for income taxes. As part of our calculation of the provision for income taxes, we assess whether the benefits of our tax positions are at least more likely than not to be sustained upon audit based on the technical merits of the tax position. For tax positions that are not more likely than not to be sustained upon audit, we accrue the largest amount of the benefit that is not more likely than not to be sustained in our Consolidated Financial Statements. Such accruals require us to make estimates and judgments, whereby actual results could vary materially from these estimates. Further, a number of years may elapse before a particular matter for which we have established an accrual is audited and resolved. See Note 6, Income Taxes, in our Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of our current tax contingencies. 16 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following table sets forth items in our Consolidated Statements of Earnings as a percentage of operating revenues and the percentage increase or decrease of those items compared with the prior year. 2022 Compared With 2021 Consolidated Operating Revenues Our total consolidated operating revenues increased 21.7% to $14.81 billion in 2022, compared to $12.17 billion in 2021. This increase was primarily due to higher revenue per load and increased load volumes within JBI and JBT, increased average revenue producing trucks and fleet productivity within DCS, and increased revenue in FMS primarily driven by a business acquisition, partially offset by decreased ICS load volume. Fuel surcharge revenues increased 94.2% to $2.43 billion in 2022, compared to $1.25 billion in 2021. If fuel surcharge revenues were excluded from both years, our 2022 revenue increased 13.4% over 2021. Consolidated Operating Expenses Our 2022 consolidated operating expenses increased 21.2% from 2021, while year-over-year revenue increased 21.7%, resulting in a 2022 operating ratio of 91.0% compared to 91.4% in 2021. Rents and purchased transportation costs increased 14.6% in 2022, primarily due to an increase in rail carrier purchased transportation costs within the JBI segment and an increase in the use of third-party truck carriers by JBT, partially offset by decreased ICS load volume. Salaries, wages and employee benefit costs increased 22.1% in 2022 from 2021. This increase was primarily related to increases in driver pay and office personnel compensation and an increase in the number of employees as well as an increase in group medical expense compared to 2021. 17 Fuel and fuel taxes expense increased 75.6% in 2022 compared with 2021, due primarily to an increase in the price of fuel during 2022 and increased road miles. We have fuel surcharge programs in place with the majority of our customers. These programs typically involve a specified computation based on the change in national, regional, or local fuel prices. While these programs may address fuel cost changes as frequently as weekly, most also reflect a specified miles-per-gallon factor and require a certain minimum change in fuel costs to trigger a change in fuel surcharge revenue. As a result, some of these programs have a time lag between when fuel costs change and when this change is reflected in revenues. Due to these programs, this lag negatively impacts operating income in times of rapidly increasing fuel costs and positively impacts operating income when fuel costs decrease rapidly. It is not meaningful to compare the amount of fuel surcharge revenue or the change in fuel surcharge revenue between reporting periods to fuel and fuel taxes expense, or the change of fuel expense between periods, as a significant portion of fuel cost is included in our payments to railroads, dray carriers and other third parties. These payments are classified as purchased transportation expense. Depreciation and amortization expense increased 15.7% in 2022, primarily due to equipment purchases related to new DCS long-term customer contracts, the addition of trailing equipment within our JBI and JBT segments and increased intangible asset amortization expense resulting from the business acquisition within FMS. Operating supplies and expenses increased 36.1% in 2022 compared with 2021, driven primarily by higher equipment maintenance costs, due to holding equipment longer, increased tire expense, increased tolls expense, and higher travel and entertainment expenses compared to 2021. Insurance and claims expense increased 92.7% in 2022, primarily due to increased cost per claim, higher insurance policy premium expense, and the inclusion of $94.0 million of expense for additional casualty claim reserves for claims subject to insurance coverage layer specific aggregated limits in 2022. General and administrative expenses increased 10.1% from 2021, primarily due to higher building rentals, higher software subscription expense, increased professional services expense, and higher bad debt expense, partially offset by higher net gains from sale or disposals of assets. Net gain from sale or disposal of assets was $25.4 million in 2022, compared to a net loss from sale or disposals of assets of $5.5 million in 2021. Net interest expense for 2022 increased by 9.7% compared with 2021, due to higher effective interest rates on our debt. Income tax expense increased 30.6% in 2022, due primarily to increased taxable earnings in 2022. Our effective income tax rate was 24.4% in 2022 and 23.9% in 2021. Segments We operated five business segments during 2022. The operation of each of these businesses is described in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The following tables summarize financial and operating data by segment: 18 Operating Data by Segment 19 JBI Segment JBI segment revenue increased 29% to $7.02 billion in 2022, from $5.45 billion in 2021. This increase in revenue was primarily a result of a 24% increase in revenue per load, which is the combination of changes in freight mix, customer rate changes, cost recovery efforts, and fuel surcharge revenue and a 4% increase in load volume. Eastern network load volumes increased 9% and transcontinental loads increased 1% compared to 2021. Revenue per load excluding fuel surcharges increased 15% compared to 2021. Operating income of the JBI segment increased to $800 million in 2022, from $603 million in 2021. The increase is primarily due to increased revenue and higher net gains from the sale of equipment during the current year, partially offset by higher rail and third-party dray purchased transportation expense, higher costs to attract and retain drivers, increased non-driver salary and wages, higher equipment-related expenses, increased insurance and claims expense, and higher costs due to rail and port network inefficiencies and customer detention of equipment. In addition, JBI incurred $33 million in expense for the segment’s portion of the additional casualty claim reserves in 2022. DCS Segment DCS segment revenue increased 31% to $3.38 billion in 2022, from $2.58 billion in 2021. Productivity, defined as revenue per truck per week, increased 11% compared to 2021. Productivity excluding fuel surcharge revenue increased 4% from 2021. The increase in productivity was primarily due to contractual index-based rate increases, partially offset by lower productivity of equipment on start-up accounts. Customer retention rates remain above 98%. Operating income of our DCS segment increased to $345 million in 2022, from $304 million in 2021. Higher revenues and higher net gains from the sale of equipment during 2022 were partially offset by increased driver and non-driver wages, benefits and recruiting costs, higher equipment-related expenses, higher costs related to the implementation of new long-term customer contracts, increased insurance and claims expense, and higher bad debt expense when compared to 2021. In addition, DCS incurred $27 million in expense for the segment’s portion of the additional casualty claim reserves in 2022. ICS Segment ICS segment revenue decreased 6% to $2.39 billion in 2022, from $2.54 billion in 2021. Overall volumes decreased 7%, while revenue per load increased 1% when compared to 2021, primarily due to higher contractual customer rates within the truckload business and changes in customer freight mix when compared to 2021. Contractual business was 56% of the total load volume and 51% of the total revenue in 2022, compared to 51% of the total load volume and 39% of the total revenue in 2021. Operating income of our ICS segment increased to $59 million in 2022, from $46 million in 2021. The increase in operating income was primarily due to higher gross profit margins, partially offset by higher personnel costs, increased technology spending, increased insurance and claims expense, and higher bad debt expense during 2022. In addition, ICS incurred $22 million in expense for the segment’s portion of the additional casualty claim reserves in 2022. Gross profit margin increased to 14.7% in the current year versus 11.8% last year. Approximately $1.52 billion of ICS revenue for 2022 was executed through the Marketplace for J.B. Hunt 360 compared to $1.58 billion in 2021. ICS’s carrier base increased 15% when compared to 2021. JBT Segment JBT segment revenue increased 36% to $1.1 billion in 2022, from $796 million in 2021. Excluding fuel surcharges, revenue for 2022 increased 28% compared to 2021, primarily due to a 12% increase in load volume and a 14% increase in revenue excluding fuel surcharge revenue per load compared to 2021. The 2022 growth in load count was primarily due to the continued expansion of J.B. Hunt 360box which leverages the J.B. Hunt 360 platform to access drop trailer capacity for customers across our transportation network. At the end of 2022, JBT operated 14,718 trailers and 2,718 tractors compared to 11,172 and 2,235 at the end of 2021. 20 Operating income of our JBT segment increased to $93 million in 2022, from $65 million in 2021. The increase in operating income was driven primarily by increased load counts and revenue per load during the current year, which were partially offset by higher purchased transportation expense, higher equipment-related expenses, increased personnel costs, increased insurance and claims expense, and increased technology spending related to the continued expansion of J.B. Hunt 360box. In addition, JBT incurred $7 million in expense for the segment’s portion of the additional casualty claim reserves in 2022. FMS Segment FMS segment revenue increased 16% to $980 million in 2022 from $842 million in 2021, primarily due to the implementation of multiple new customer contracts and the acquisition of Zenith Freight Lines, LLC (Zenith) in 2022. The increase in revenue was partially offset by the effects of internal efforts to improve revenue quality across certain accounts as well as supply-chain related constraints for goods in the primary markets served by FMS. Operating income of our FMS segment increased to $35 million in 2022, from $28 million in 2021. The increase in operating income was primarily due to increased revenues, partially offset by higher personnel salary, wages and benefits expense, higher equipment-related expenses, increased insurance and claims expense, increased driver recruiting costs, increased technology costs, and implementation costs related to new long-term contractual business. In addition, FMS incurred $5 million in expense for the segment’s portion of the additional casualty claim reserves in 2022, while 2021 included an aggregated benefit of $9 million from the net settlement of claims and the reduction of a contingent liability. 2021 Compared With 2020 Consolidated Operating Revenues Our total consolidated operating revenues increased 26.3% to $12.17 billion in 2021, compared to $9.64 billion in 2020. This increase was primarily due to increased ICS and JBT revenue, higher JBI revenue per load, increased average revenue producing trucks and fleet productivity within DCS, and increased FMS stops and revenue per stop. Fuel surcharge revenues increased 65.5% to $1.25 billion in 2021, compared to $757 million in 2020. If fuel surcharge revenues were excluded from both years, our 2021 revenue increased 22.9% over 2020. Consolidated Operating Expenses Our 2021 consolidated operating expenses increased 24.6% from 2020, while year-over-year revenue increased 26.3%, resulting in a 2021 operating ratio of 91.4% compared to 92.6% in 2020. Rents and purchased transportation costs increased 30.2% in 2021, primarily due to increased third-party rail and truck purchased transportation rates in JBI and ICS, increased ICS load volume, and an increase in the use of third-party truck carriers by JBT and FMS during 2021. Salaries, wages and employee benefit costs increased 17.6% in 2021 from 2020. This increase was primarily related to increases in driver pay and office personnel compensation due to a tighter supply of qualified drivers, a trend we anticipate continuing, and an increase in the number of employees as well as an increase in incentive compensation compared to 2020. Fuel and fuel taxes expense increased 48.4% in 2021 compared with 2020, due primarily to an increase in the price of fuel during 2021 and increased road miles. Depreciation and amortization expense increased 5.6% in 2021, primarily due to equipment purchases related to new DCS long-term customer contracts, the addition of trailing equipment and scheduled turnover of tractors within JBI, higher trailer counts in JBT, and increased capital investments in information technology. Operating supplies and expenses increased 10.5% in 2021 compared with 2020, driven primarily by higher equipment maintenance costs, increased tire expense, increased tolls expense, higher travel and entertainment expense, and higher weather-related towing costs, partially offset by reduced operating supplies and building maintenance costs in response to COVID-19 compared to 2020. Insurance and claims expense increased 22.7% in 2021, primarily due to higher incident volume and severity and increased insurance policy premium expenses, partially offset by a $3.2 million benefit from the net settlement of claims within the FMS segment. General and administrative expenses increased 8.6% from 2020, primarily due to higher advertising costs, increased technology spend, and increased driver hiring expenses, partially offset by a $5.7 million benefit from the reduction of a contingent liability in the FMS segment. Additionally, net losses from sale or disposal of assets were $5.5 million in 2021, compared to net losses of $4.4 million in 2020. 21 Net interest expense for 2021 decreased by 2.8% compared with 2020, due to lower effective interest rates on our debt. Income tax expense increased 49.4% in 2021, due primarily to increased taxable earnings in 2021. Our effective income tax rate was 23.9% in 2021 and 24.0% in 2020. JBI Segment JBI segment revenue increased 17% to $5.45 billion in 2021, from $4.68 billion in 2020. This increase in revenue was primarily a result of an 19% increase in revenue per load, which is the combination of changes in freight mix, customer rate changes, cost recovery efforts, and fuel surcharge revenue, partially offset by a 2% decrease in load volume. Eastern network load volumes increased 1% and transcontinental loads decreased 3% compared to 2020. Revenue per load excluding fuel surcharges increased 14% compared to 2020. Operating income of the JBI segment increased to $603 million in 2021, from $428 million in 2020. Benefits from increased revenue per load were partially offset by network inefficiencies caused by continued rail and customer fluidity challenges, higher rail and third-party dray purchased transportation expense, higher driver wages and recruiting costs, increased non-driver salary, wages, and incentive compensation, and higher equipment costs when compared to 2020. DCS Segment DCS segment revenue increased 17% to $2.58 billion in 2021, from $2.20 billion in 2020. Productivity, defined as revenue per truck per week, increased 8% compared to 2020. Productivity excluding fuel surcharge revenue increased 5% from 2020. The increase in productivity was primarily a result of contracted indexed-based price escalators and less unassigned idle equipment, partially offset by expected lower productivity within start-up accounts and an increase in open assigned trucks due to the tighter supply of qualified drivers and COVID-related labor disruptions. Customer retention rates remain above 98%. Operating income of our DCS segment decreased to $304 million in 2021, from $314 million in 2020. Higher revenues during the current year were more than offset by increases in driver wage and recruiting costs, increased non-driver salary, wages, and incentive compensation, increased casualty insurance and claims costs, higher group medical benefits, and additional costs related to the implementation of new, long-term customer contracts. ICS Segment ICS segment revenue increased 53% to $2.54 billion in 2021, from $1.66 billion in 2020. Revenue per load increased 46% when compared to 2020, primarily due to higher spot and contractual customer rates within the truckload business and changes in customer freight mix when compared to 2020. Overall volumes increased 5%, with truckload volumes increasing 13% when compared to 2020. Contractual business was 51% of the total load volume and 39% of the total revenue in the 2021, compared to 60% of the total load volume and 43% of the total revenue in 2020. ICS segment had operating income of $46 million in 2021, compared to an operating loss of $45 million in 2020. The increase in operating income was primarily due to increased revenue and higher gross profit margins, partially offset by higher personnel incentive compensation, and increased technology costs. Gross profit margin increased to 11.8% in the current year versus 9.9% last year. Approximately $1.58 billion of ICS revenue for 2021 was executed through the Marketplace for J.B. Hunt 360 compared to $1.14 billion in 2020. ICS’s carrier base increased 36% when compared to 2020. 22 JBT Segment JBT segment revenue increased 72% to $796 million in 2021, from $463 million in 2020. Excluding fuel surcharges, revenue for 2021 increased 70% compared to 2020, primarily due to a 10% increase in load volume and a 55% increase in revenue excluding fuel surcharge revenue per load compared to 2020. The 2021 growth in load count was primarily due to the continued expansion of J.B. Hunt 360box which leverages the J.B. Hunt 360 platform to access drop trailer capacity for customers across our transportation network. At the end of 2021, JBT operated 11,172 trailers and 2,235 tractors compared to 8,567 and 1,769 at the end of 2020. JBT segment had operating income of $65 million in 2021 compared with $17 million in 2020. The increase in operating income was driven primarily by increased load counts and revenue per load during 2021, which were partially offset by increases in purchased transportation expense, higher costs to attract and retain drivers, higher non-driver salary, wages, and incentive compensation, and additional costs from further investments in the trailer network and technology related to the continued expansion of J.B. Hunt 360box. FMS Segment FMS segment revenue increased 22% to $842 million in 2021 from $689 million in 2020, primarily due to the addition of multiple customer contracts implemented during the current year and 2020 including temporary suspension of operations at several customer sites as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Stop count for 2021 increased 11%, while productivity, defined as revenue per stop, increased 10% compared to 2020. The increase in productivity was primarily due to a shift in the mix of business between asset and asset-light operations and the implementation of higher rates. FMS segment had operating income of $28 million in 2021 compared to an operating loss of $1 million in 2020. The increase in operating income was primarily due to increased revenues, a $5.7 million benefit from the reduction of a contingent liability, and a $3.2 million benefit from the net settlement of claims. These items were partially offset by higher implementation costs related to new long-term contractual business, higher third-party contract carrier costs, lower volumes with certain customers related to product availability because of supply chain disruptions, and higher personnel salary, wages, and incentive compensation. 23 LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Net cash provided by operating activities totaled $1.78 billion in 2022, compared to $1.22 billion in 2021, due to increased earnings and the timing of general working capital activities. Net cash used in investing activities totaled $1.55 billion in 2022, compared with $877 million in 2021. The increase resulted primarily from an increase in equipment purchases, net of proceeds from the sale of equipment, and business acquisitions completed in 2022. Net cash used in financing activities was $530 million in 2022, compared with $305 million in 2021. This increase resulted primarily from an increase in treasury stock purchased, higher dividends paid, and retirement of long-term debt, partially offset by net proceeds from revolving lines of credit in 2022. Our dividend policy is subject to review and revision by the Board of Directors, and payments are dependent upon our financial condition, liquidity, earnings, capital requirements, and other factors the Board of Directors may deem relevant. We paid a $0.27 per share quarterly dividend in 2020, a $0.28 per share quarterly dividend in the first quarter of 2021, a $0.30 per share quarterly dividend in the last three quarters of 2021, and a $0.40 per share quarterly dividend in 2022. On January 19, 2023, we announced an increase in our quarterly cash dividend from $0.40 to $0.42 per share, which was paid February 24, 2023, to stockholders of record on February 10, 2023. We currently intend to continue paying cash dividends on a quarterly basis. However, no assurance can be given that future dividends will be paid. Liquidity Our need for capital has typically resulted from the acquisition of containers and chassis, trucks, tractors and trailers required to support our growth and the replacement of older equipment as well as periodic business acquisitions. We are frequently able to accelerate or postpone a portion of equipment replacements or other capital expenditures depending on market and overall economic conditions. However, we do anticipate that the current challenges related to timely delivery of ordered equipment will continue due to supply chain challenges impacting production. In recent years, we have obtained capital through cash generated from operations, revolving lines of credit and long-term debt issuances. We have also periodically utilized operating leases to acquire revenue equipment. We believe our liquid assets, cash generated from operations, and revolving line of credit will provide sufficient funds for our operating and capital requirements for the foreseeable future. In September 2022, we replaced our $750 million senior credit facility dated September 25, 2018, with a new credit facility authorizing us to borrow up to $1.5 billion through a revolving line of credit and committed term loans, which is supported by a credit agreement with a group of banks. The revolving line of credit authorizes us to borrow up to $1.0 billion under a five-year term expiring September 2027, and allows us to request an increase in the revolving line of credit total commitment by up to $300 million and to request two one-year extensions of the maturity date. The committed term loans authorize us to borrow up to an additional $500 million during the nine-month period beginning September 27, 2022, and if funded, will mature in September 2025. The applicable interest rates under this agreement are based on either the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (SOFR), or a Base Rate, depending upon the specific type of borrowing, plus an applicable margin and other fees. At December 31, 2022, we had a cash balance of $51.9 million, a $317.5 million outstanding balance on the revolving line of credit at an average interest rate of 5.32% and no outstanding balance of term loans under our senior credit facility. We continue to evaluate the possible effects of current economic conditions and reasonable and supportable economic forecasts on operational cash flows, including the risks of declines in the overall freight market and our customers' liquidity and ability to pay. We regularly monitor working capital and maintain frequent communication with our customers, suppliers and service providers. A large portion of our cost structure is variable. Purchased transportation expense represents more than half of our total costs and is heavily tied to load volumes. Our second largest cost item is salaries and wages, the largest portion of which is driver pay, which includes a large variable component. 24 Our senior notes consist of two separate issuances. The first is $250 million of 3.85% senior notes due March 2024, which was issued in March 2014. Interest payments under these notes are due semiannually in March and September of each year, beginning September 2014. The second is $700 million of 3.875% senior notes due March 2026, issued in March 2019. Interest payments under these notes are due semiannually in March and September of each year, beginning September 2019. We may redeem for cash some or all of the notes based on a redemption price set forth in the note indenture. Our $350 million of 3.30% senior notes matured in August 2022. The entire outstanding balance was paid in full at maturity. Our financing arrangements require us to maintain certain covenants and financial ratios. At December 31, 2022, we were in compliance with all covenants and financial ratios. We are currently committed to spend a total of approximately $2.37 billion, net of proceeds from sales or trade-ins, during 2023 and 2024, which is primarily related to the acquisition of tractors, containers, chassis, and other trailing equipment. We had no other off-balance sheet arrangements as of December 31, 2022.