********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this Report, the following risks and uncertainties could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial also may impair our business operations and financial condition. Risks Related to Our Business Our business is significantly impacted by general macroeconomic conditions, and accordingly, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected by further deterioration or a protracted extension of current macroeconomic challenges. Geopolitical instability, including wars and conflicts (including conflicts in Ukraine and the Middle East), actual and potential shifts in U.S. and foreign, trade, economic and other policies, as well as other global events, have significantly increased macroeconomic uncertainty at a global level. The macroeconomic environment is and has been characterized by record-high inflation, supply chain challenges, labor shortages, high interest rates, foreign currency exchange volatility, volatility in global capital markets and growing recession risk. Such economic volatility could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and future market disruptions could negatively impact us. Further, adverse macroeconomic conditions may affect our customers’ and prospective customers’ operations and financial condition and make it difficult for our customers and prospective customers to accurately forecast and plan future business activities, which may in turn cause our customers to limit their purchase orders or affect their ability to pay amounts owed to us in a timely manner or at all, or adversely affect prospective customers’ ability or willingness to purchase our products. An economic downturn or a recession or increased uncertainty may also lead to increased credit and collectability risks, higher borrowing costs or reduced availability of capital and credit markets, reduced liquidity, adverse impacts on our suppliers, failures of counterparties including financial institutions and insurers, asset impairments, and declines in the value of our financial instruments. Pandemics, epidemics or disease outbreaks, may disrupt our business, including, among other things, our supply chain and production processes, each of which could materially affect our operations, liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. The actual or perceived effects of a disease outbreak, epidemic, pandemic or similar widespread public health concern could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. The occurrence of other widespread public health concerns (including a resurgence of the COVID-19 pandemic) in some markets could lead to the implementation of restrictions and impact our ability to perform critical functions. A shutdown of one or more of our manufacturing, warehousing or distribution facilities as a result of illness, government restrictions or other workforce disruptions or absenteeism, or reductions in capacity utilization levels, could result in us incurring additional direct costs and experiencing lost revenue. Illness, travel restrictions or workforce disruptions could negatively affect our supply chain, manufacturing, distribution or other business. These disruptions or our failure to effectively respond to them, could increase product or distribution costs, or cause delays or inability to deliver products to our customers. Disruptions to our supply chain in certain markets have occurred from time to time.  Disruptions to our work force and supply chain could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Widespread public health concerns could materially impact our ability to meet the demands of our customers. The potential impact of widespread public health concerns on any of our supply, production or logistics providers could include, but is not limited to, problems with their respective businesses, finances, labor matters (including illness or absenteeism in workforce or closure due to positive testing), ability to source, import or secure ingredients and packaging, ability to transport products to our facilities, product quality issues, costs, production, insurance and reputation. Any of the foregoing could negatively affect the price and availability of our products and impact our supply chain. If disruptions caused by a widespread public health concern continue for an extended period of time, our ability to meet the demand for our products may be materially impacted. We may not realize the benefits we expect from revenue growth management . We are utilizing formal revenue growth management practices to help us realize price in a more effective way. This data-driven approach addresses price strategy, price-pack architecture, promotion strategy, mix management, and trade strategies. Revenue growth management involves changes to the way we do business and may not always be accepted by our customers, consumers or third-party providers causing us not to realize the anticipated benefits. In addition, the complexity of the execution requires a substantial amount of management and operational resources. These and related demands on our resources may divert the organization's attention from other business issues and have adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers. Any failure to execute revenue growth management in accordance with our plans, including as a result of our revenue growth management process, could adversely affect our business or financial condition. 12 Our results may be negatively impacted if consumers do not maintain their favorable perception of our brands . We have a number of iconic brands with significant value. Promoting and protecting the value of these brands is critical to the success of our business. Brand value is primarily based on consumer perceptions. Successful promotions and brand value enhancement depends in large part on our ability to provide high-quality products. Brand value could diminish significantly due to a number of factors, including consumer perception that we, or any of our employees or agents, have acted in an irresponsible manner, adverse publicity about our labor relations (whether or not valid), our products (whether or not valid), sponsorship or endorsement relationships (whether or not valid), our failure to maintain the quality of our products, the failure of our products or promotions to deliver consistently positive consumer experiences, the products becoming unavailable to consumers, or the failure to meet the nutrition expectations of our products or particular ingredients in our products (whether or not valid), including  the perception of healthfulness of our products or their ingredients. In addition, due to our varied and geographically diverse consumer base, we must be responsive to local consumers,  including when and how consumers consume food products and their desire for premium or value offerings and whether to provide an array of products that satisfy the broad spectrum of consumer preferences. Accordingly, we might fail to anticipate consumer preferences with respect to dietary trends or purchasing behaviors, invest sufficiently in maintaining, extending and expanding our brand image or achieve the desired effects of our marketing efforts or use data-driven marketing and advertising to reach consumers at the right time with the right message. The growing use of social and digital media platforms by consumers, Kellanova and third parties increases the speed and extent that information or misinformation and opinions can be shared. Negative posts or comments about Kellanova, our brands, our products, our labor relations or any of our employees or agents on social or digital media platforms could seriously damage our brands, reputation and brand loyalty, regardless of the information’s accuracy. Placement of our advertisements in digital media may also result in damage to our brands if the media itself experiences negative publicity itself. The harm may be immediate, and we may not be afforded an opportunity for redress or correction. Brand recognition and loyalty can also be impacted by the effectiveness of our advertising campaigns, marketing programs, influencers and sponsorships, as well as our use of social media. If we do not maintain the favorable perception of our brands, our results could be negatively impacted. Business disruptions could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations . We manufacture and source products and materials on a global scale. We have a complex network of suppliers, owned manufacturing locations, contract manufacturer locations, warehousing and distribution networks and information systems that support our ability to provide our products to our customers consistently. Our ability to make, move and sell products globally is critical to our success. Factors that are hard to predict or beyond our control, such as product or raw material scarcity, workforce disruptions, weather (including any potential effects of climate change), natural disasters, water availability, fires or explosions, terrorism, political unrest, government restrictions, mandates or shutdowns, tariffs and other trade restrictions, cybersecurity breaches, health pandemics, disruptions in logistics, loss or impairment of key manufacturing sites, supplier capacity constraints, or strikes, could damage or disrupt our operations or our suppliers', their suppliers or our contract manufacturers' operations. If we do not effectively prepare for and respond to disruptions in our operations, for example, by finding alternative suppliers or replacing capacity at key manufacturing or distribution locations, or cannot quickly repair damage to our information, technology, production or supply systems, we may be late in delivering or unable to deliver products to our customers. If that occurs, we may lose our customers' confidence, and long-term consumer demand for our products could decline. In addition, insurance policies that may provide coverage with regard to such events may not cover any or all of the resulting financial losses. These events could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Many of our employees are covered by collectively-bargained agreements and other employees may seek to be covered by collectively-bargained agreements. Strikes or work stoppages and interruptions have occurred and could occur in the future if we are unable to renew these agreements on satisfactory terms or enter into new agreements on satisfactory terms, which could adversely impact our operating results. In addition, we may be unable to meet the demand for our products during certain business disruptions. Short term or sustained increases in consumer demand at our retail customers may exceed our production capacity or otherwise strain our supply chain. We may face additional production disruptions in the future, which may place constraints on our ability to produce products in a timely manner or may increase our costs. Our failure to meet the demand for our products could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Our businesses rely on independent third parties for the supply of materials for, and the manufacture of, many products. Our businesses could be materially affected if we fail to develop or maintain our relationships with these third parties, if any of these third parties is unable to fulfill its obligations to us, if any of these third parties fails to comply with governmental regulations applicable to the supply of materials for or the manufacturing of our products or if any of these third parties ceases doing business with us or goes out of business. Additionally, from time to time, we experience operational difficulties with these third parties, which may include increases in costs, reductions in 13 the availability of materials or production capacity, delays in the addition of incremental capacity, failures to meet shipment or production deadlines, including as a result of public health crises (such as the COVID-19 pandemic) and related governmental restrictions or mandates and any naturally occurring or climate change induced acute (including extreme weather and natural disasters) or chronic (including prolonged temperature and weather patterns) climatic events, fire and water stress, cybersecurity incidents, errors in complying with specifications and insufficient quality control. The inability of a third-party supplier or manufacturer to ship orders in a timely manner or in desirable quantities or to meet our safety, quality and social compliance standards or regulatory requirements could have a material adverse impact on our businesses, reputation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, certain of our relationships with third-party manufacturers and suppliers require us to purchase minimum volumes, and we could incur significant penalties if we do not purchase the minimum quantities required under these commitments. We may not achieve our targeted cost savings and efficiencies from cost reduction initiatives . Our success depends in part on our ability to be an efficient producer in a highly competitive industry. We have invested a significant amount in capital expenditures to improve our operational facilities. Ongoing operational issues are likely to occur when carrying out major production, procurement, manufacturing or logistical changes and these, as well as any failure by us to achieve our planned cost savings and efficiencies, could have a material adverse effect on our business and consolidated financial position and on the consolidated results of our operations and profitability. Disruptions and uncertainties related to adverse macroeconomic conditions, including rising inflation and economic slowdowns or recessions, for a sustained period of time could result in delays or modifications to our strategic plans and other initiatives and hinder our ability to achieve our cost savings and productivity initiatives on the same timelines. Structural and Organizational Risks We may not realize the anticipated benefits from the separation of WK Kellogg Co, which could harm our business. On October 2, 2023, the Company completed the spin-off of WK Kellogg Co (the “separation”). The Company may incur significant additional expenses and challenges arising from and following the separation of the WK Kellogg Co business. The Company may not be able to achieve the full strategic, financial, operational, or other benefits that are expected to result from the separation and the anticipated benefits of the separation are based on a number of assumptions, some of which may prove incorrect. Additionally, stranded margins and a potential loss of synergies from the separation could negatively impact our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. A failure to realize all or some of the expected benefits of the spin-off, or if such benefits are delayed, could result in a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. As a separated company, our shares may not match some holders’ investment strategies or meet minimum criteria for inclusion in stock market indices or portfolios, which could cause certain investors to sell their shares, which could lead to declines in the trading price of our common stock. Further, there can be no assurance that the combined value of the shares of the two separated companies will be equal to or greater than what the value of our common stock would have been had the separation not occurred. Further, in connection with the separation, we and WK Kellogg Co entered a separation and distribution agreement and various other agreements. The separation and distribution agreement provides for cross-indemnities between the Company and WK Kellogg Co for liabilities allocated to the respective party pursuant to the terms of such agreement. If WK Kellogg Co or its successor entities are unable to satisfy their obligations under these agreements, we could incur operational difficulties or losses. In addition, the terms of the separation include licenses and other arrangements to provide for certain ongoing use of intellectual property in the operations of both businesses. For example, both the Company and WK Kellogg Co retain the ability to make ongoing use of certain brands and other intellectual property. As a result of this continuing shared use of brands and other intellectual property, there is a risk that conduct or events adversely affecting the reputation of WK Kellogg Co could also adversely affect our reputation. The separation could result in substantial tax liability to us and our stockholders. The Company received an opinion of counsel and a private letter ruling from the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (the “IRS”) regarding the qualification of the spin-off of WK Kellogg Co and certain related transactions as a transaction that is generally tax-free to the Company and the shareholders of the Company for U.S. federal income tax purposes. A tax opinion is not binding on the IRS or the courts, and there can be no assurance that the IRS or a court will not take a contrary position. In addition, the Company’s tax counsel and the IRS relied on certain assumptions, representations and undertakings, including those relating to the past and future conduct of our business, and the opinion would not be valid if such assumptions, representations and undertakings were incorrect. If the IRS ultimately determines that the spin-off is taxable, then the spin-off could be treated as a taxable dividend or capital gain to the Company’s shareholders for U.S. federal income tax purposes, and the Company could incur significant U.S. federal income tax 14 liabilities. In certain circumstances if future significant acquisitions of our stock or the stock of WK Kellogg Co are determined to be part of a plan or series of related transactions that included the spin-off, the distribution would be taxable to us (but not to the Company’s shareholders). In this event, the resulting tax liability could be substantial. In connection with the spin-off, the Company entered into a Tax Matters Agreement with WK Kellogg Co, pursuant to which WK Kellogg Co agreed to not enter into transactions that could cause the spin-off or any related transactions to be taxable to us and to indemnify us for any tax liability resulting from any such transaction. However, there can be no assurance that WK Kellogg Co would have the resources or liquidity required to indemnify the Company for any such tax liability. In addition, these potential tax liabilities may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of the Company. If we pursue strategic acquisitions, alliances, divestitures or joint ventures, we may not be able to successfully consummate favorable transactions or successfully integrate acquired businesses . From time to time, we may evaluate potential acquisitions, alliances, divestitures or joint ventures that would further our strategic objectives. With respect to acquisitions, we may not be able to identify suitable candidates, consummate a transaction on terms that are favorable to us, integrate the acquired business into our existing operations in a timely and cost-efficient manner, including implementation of enterprise-resource planning systems, or achieve expected returns, expected synergies and other benefits as a result of integration or other challenges, or may not achieve those objectives on a timely basis. Future acquisitions of foreign companies or new foreign ventures would subject us to local laws and regulations and could potentially lead to risks related to, among other things, increased exposure to foreign exchange rate changes, government price control, repatriation of profits and liabilities relating to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the “FCPA”). With respect to proposed divestitures of assets or businesses, we may encounter difficulty in finding acquirers or alternative exit strategies on terms that are favorable to us, which could delay the accomplishment of our strategic objectives, or our divestiture activities may require us to recognize impairment charges. Companies or operations acquired or joint ventures created may not be profitable or may not achieve sales levels and profitability that justify the investments made. Our corporate development activities may present financial and operational risks, including diversion of management attention from existing core businesses, integrating or separating personnel and financial and other systems, and adverse effects on existing business relationships with suppliers and customers. Future acquisitions could also result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity securities, the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities and/or amortization expenses related to certain intangible assets and increased operating expenses, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. To the extent we undertake divestitures in the future, we may face additional risks related to such activity. For example, risks related to our ability to find appropriate buyers, to execute transactions on favorable terms, to separate divested businesses from our remaining operations, and to effectively manage any transitional service arrangements. Any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. Further, our participation in joint ventures may cause our results of operations and cash flows to fluctuate for reasons unrelated to the underlying financial performance of the joint venture. The manner and extent to which the financial results of joint ventures are reflected in our consolidated financial statements depend upon how the ownership and governance of a particular joint venture is characterized under GAAP including assessing the financial and governance control of the joint venture. Changes at Kellanova unrelated to the joint venture, such as a change of control, may result in changes to how a joint venture is assessed under GAAP. If a joint venture that we currently consolidate in our financial statements becomes unconsolidated, or vice versa, this could have an adverse effect on our reported revenues, results of operations and/or cash flows. We may not be able to attract, develop and retain the highly skilled people we need to support our business. We depend on the skills and continued service of key personnel, including our experienced management team. In addition, our ability to achieve our strategic and operating goals depends on our ability to identify, recruit, hire, train and retain qualified individuals, including, for example, individuals with e-commerce, digital marketing and data analytics capabilities and skilled labor in our manufacturing facilities. We compete with other companies both within and outside of our industry for talented personnel, and we may lose key personnel or fail to attract, recruit, train, develop and retain other talented personnel. Recruiting and retention of talent has become especially challenging in the current employment market. Any such loss, failure or negative perception with respect to these individuals may adversely affect our business or financial results. In addition, activities related to identifying, recruiting, hiring and integrating qualified individuals may require significant time and expense. We may not be able to locate suitable replacements for any key employees who terminate their employment, or offer employment to potential replacements on reasonable terms, each of which may adversely affect our business and 15 financial results. Additionally, changes in regional preferences, immigration laws and policies could also make it more difficult for us to recruit or relocate skilled employees. Risks Related to Our Industry Our results may be materially and adversely impacted as a result of increases in the price of raw materials, including agricultural commodities, packaging, fuel and labor . Agricultural commodities, including vegetable oils, wheat, corn, sugar, fruits and nuts, potato flakes, rice and cocoa, are the principal raw materials used in our products. Cartonboard, corrugated, and flexible packaging are the principal packaging materials used by us. The cost of such commodities may fluctuate widely due to government policy, regulation, and/or shutdown, import and export requirements (including tariffs), global geopolitical conditions (including war and conflicts, such as the conflicts in Ukraine and the Middle East), general economic conditions (including inflationary pressures), sanctions, drought and other weather conditions (including the potential effects of climate change), a pandemic illness, environmental or other sustainability regulation, or other unforeseen circumstances. Specifically, certain ingredients, packaging and other goods and services have been impacted by an unfavorable macroeconomic environment, including as a result of (among other things) labor shortages and inflationary pressures, and although we are unable to predict the impact to our ability to source such materials and services in the future, we expect some supply pressures and market disruptions to continue into 2024. To the extent that any of the foregoing factors affect the prices of such commodities and we are unable to increase our prices or adequately hedge against such changes in prices in a manner that offsets such changes, the results of our operations could be materially and adversely affected. In addition, we use derivatives to hedge price risk associated with forecasted purchases of raw materials. Our hedged price could exceed the spot price on the date of purchase, resulting in an unfavorable impact on both gross margin and net earnings. Also, sustained price increases may lead to declines in volume as competitors may not adjust their prices, or consumers may decide not to pay the higher prices or may increasingly purchase lower-priced offerings or forego some purchases altogether during an economic downturn or a recession or instances of increased inflationary pressures, which could lead to sales declines and loss of market share. In an inflationary environment, such as the current economic environment, depending on the market conditions of the food industry and the raising of interest rates by the United States Federal Reserve, we may be unable to raise the prices of our products enough to keep up with the rate of inflation, which would reduce our profit margins, and continued inflationary pressures could impact our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Food processing equipment at our facilities is regularly fueled by natural gas or propane, as well as electricity, oil and solar, which are obtained from local utilities, other local suppliers or onsite. Short-term stand-by propane and/or oil storage exists at several plants for use in case of interruption in natural gas supplies. In addition, considerable amounts of diesel fuel are used in connection with the distribution of our products. The cost of fuel may fluctuate widely due to economic and political conditions, government policy, regulation and/or shutdown, war, or other unforeseen circumstances which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated operating results or financial condition. Our results may be adversely affected by increases in transportation costs and reduced availability of or increases in the price of oil or other fuels . We rely on trucking and railroad operators to deliver incoming ingredients to our manufacturing locations and to deliver finished products to our customers. Shortages of truck drivers and railroad workers have contributed to increased freight costs, which has had a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. In recent years, the cost of distribution generally increased due to an increase in transportation and logistics costs. Transportation costs are further increasing as a result of high levels of long-haul driver turnover and increased railroad traffic and service issues. Additionally, energy and fuel costs can fluctuate dramatically and, at times, have resulted in significant cost increases, particularly for the price of oil and gasoline. We operate in the highly competitive food industry, including with respect to retail shelf space. We face competition across our product lines, including snacks, ready-to-eat cereals and other convenience foods, from other companies that have varying abilities to withstand changes in market conditions. The principal aspects of our business where we face competition include brand recognition, taste, nutritional value, price, promotion, innovation, shelf space, navigating the growing e- commerce marketplace, convenient ordering and delivery to the consumer and customer service. Most of our competitors have substantial financial, marketing, sales and other resources, and some of our competitors may spend more aggressively on advertising and promotional activities than we do. Our competition with other companies in our various markets and product lines could cause us to reduce prices, increase capital, marketing or other expenditures, or lose category share, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results. Our ability to compete also depends upon our ability to predict, identify, and interpret the tastes and dietary habits of consumers and to offer products that appeal to those preferences. For example, certain weight loss drugs, which may suppress a person’s appetite, may cause competition in our product categories to increase, if consumers reduce purchases of certain types of foods or of food products altogether. There are inherent marketplace risks associated with new product or packaging introductions, including uncertainties about trade and consumer acceptance. If we do not succeed in offering 16 products that consumers want to buy, our sales and market share will decrease, resulting in reduced profitability. If we are unable to accurately predict which shifts in consumer preferences will be long-lasting, or are unable to introduce new and improved products to satisfy those preferences, our sales will decline. In addition, given the variety of backgrounds and identities of consumers in our consumer base, we must offer a sufficient array of products to satisfy the broad spectrum of consumer preferences. Further, if the Company does not innovate and successfully to respond to shifting consumer demands, our business may suffer. Successful innovation depends on our ability to correctly anticipate customer and consumer acceptance and respond successfully to technological advances by and intellectual property rights of our competitors, and failure to do so could compromise our competitive position and impact our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. In some cases, our competitors may be able to respond to changing business and economic conditions or consumer preferences more quickly than us. Category share and growth could also be adversely impacted if we are not successful in introducing new products, anticipating changes in consumer preferences with respect to dietary trends or purchasing behaviors or in effectively assessing, changing and setting proper pricing. In addition, in nearly all of our product categories, we compete against branded products as well as private label products. Our products must provide higher value and/or quality to our consumers than alternatives, particularly during periods of economic uncertainty. Consumers may not buy our products if relative differences in value and/or quality between our products and private label products change in favor of competitors’ products or if consumers perceive this type of change. If consumers prefer private label products, which are typically sold at lower prices, then we could lose category share or sales volumes or shift our product mix to lower margin offerings, which could have a material effect on our business and consolidated financial position and on the consolidated results of our operations and profitability. Further, our ability to compete may be limited by an inability to secure new retailers or maintain or add shelf and/or retail space for our products. There can be no assurance that retailers will provide sufficient, or any, shelf space, nor that online retailers will provide online access to, or adequate product visibility on, their platform. Unattractive placement or pricing may put our products at a disadvantage compared to those of our competitors. Even if we obtain shelf space or preferable shelf placement, our new and existing products may fail to achieve the sales expectations set by our retailers, potentially causing these retailers to remove our products from their shelves. The changing retail environment and the growing presence of alternative retail channels, could negatively impact our sales and profits . Our businesses are largely concentrated in the traditional retail grocery trade. Our largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates, accounted for approximately 15% of consolidated net sales during 2023, comprised principally of sales within the United States. No other customer accounted for greater than 10% of net sales in 2023. During 2023, our top five customers, collectively, including Wal-Mart, accounted for approximately 26% of our consolidated net sales and approximately 46% of U.S. net sales. There can be no assurances that our largest customers will continue to purchase our products in the same mix or quantities or on the same terms as in the past. As the retail grocery trade continues to consolidate and retailers become larger, our large retail customers have sought, and may continue to seek in the future, to use their position to improve their profitability through improved efficiency, lower pricing, increased promotional programs funded by their suppliers and more favorable terms. Such consolidation can continue to adversely impact our smaller customers’ ability to compete effectively, resulting in an inability on their part to pay for our products or reduced or canceled orders of our products. In addition, larger retailers have the scale to develop supply chains that permit them to operate with reduced inventories or to develop and market their own private label products. If we are unable to use our scale, marketing expertise, product innovation and category leadership positions to respond, our profitability or volume growth could be negatively affected. As a result of the consolidated nature of the retail environment, the loss of any large customer or severe adverse impact on the business operations of any large customer for an extended length of time could negatively impact our sales and profits. Additionally, alternative retail channels, such as e-commerce retailers (including as a result of the integration of traditional and digital operations at key retailers), subscription services, discount and dollar stores, direct-to-consumer brands, drug stores and club stores, have continued to grow. This trend away from traditional retail grocery, and towards such channels, is expected to continue in the future. If we are not successful in expanding sales in alternative retail channels, our business or financial results may be negatively impacted. In particular, substantial growth in e-commerce has encouraged the entry of new competitors and business models, intensifying competition by simplifying distribution and lowering barriers to entry. The expanding presence of e-commerce retailers has impacted, and may continue to impact, consumer preferences and market dynamics, which in turn may negatively affect our sales or profits. In addition, these alternative retail channels may create consumer price deflation, affecting our large retail and wholesale customer relationships and presenting additional challenges to 17 increasing prices in response to commodity or other cost increases. Also, if these alternative retail channels, such as e-commerce retailers were to take significant share away from traditional retailers that could have a flow over effect on our business and our financial results could be negatively impacted. Our consolidated financial results and demand for our products are dependent on the successful development of new products and processes, identification of changing consumer and customer preferences and behaviors, and meeting these preferences and behaviors. There are a number of trends in consumer preferences which may impact us and the industry as a whole. These include changing consumer dietary trends and consumer concerns regarding the health effects of ingredients such as sodium, trans fats, genetically modified organisms, sugar, or other product ingredients or attributes, and the availability of substitute products.  Our success is dependent on anticipating changes in consumer preferences and on successful new product and process development and product relaunches in response to such changes. Trends within the food industry change often, and failure to identify and react to changes in these trends could lead to, among other things, reduced loyalty, reduced demand and price reductions for our brands and products.  Additionally, certain weight loss drugs, which may suppress a person’s appetite, may impact demand for our products.  We aim to introduce products or new or improved production processes on a timely basis in order to counteract obsolescence and decreases in sales of existing products. While we devote significant focus to the development of new products and to the research, development and technology process functions of our business, we may not be successful in developing new products or our new products may not be commercially successful. In addition, if sales generated by new products cause a decline in sales of the Company's existing products, the Company's financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Our future results and our ability to maintain or improve our competitive position will depend on our capacity to gauge the direction of our key markets and upon our ability to successfully identify, develop, manufacture, market and sell new or improved products in these changing markets, including through the expansion into complementary product categories. Adverse changes in the global climate or extreme weather conditions could adversely affect our business or operations. As set forth in the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Fifth Assessment Report, there is continuing scientific evidence, as well as concern from members of the general public, that emissions of greenhouse gases and contributing human activities have caused and will continue to cause significant changes in global temperatures and weather patterns and increase the frequency or severity of weather events, wildfires and flooding. As the pressures from climate change and global population growth lead to increased demand, the food system and global supply chain is becoming increasingly vulnerable to acute shocks, leading to increased prices and volatility, especially in the energy and commodity markets. Adverse changes such as these could (i) unfavorably impact the cost or availability of raw or packaging materials, especially if such events have a negative impact on agricultural productivity or on the supply of water, (ii) disrupt production schedules and our ability, or the ability of our suppliers or contract manufacturers, to manufacture or distribute our products, (iii) reduce crop size or quality, (iv) disrupt the retail operations of our customers, or (v) unfavorably impact the demand for, or the consumer's ability to purchase, our products. Additionally, we face climate-related transition risks, including new legislation and regulation aimed at addressing climate change and shifts in market preferences for more sustainable products and services. There is an increased focus by foreign, federal, state and local regulatory and legislative bodies regarding environmental policies relating to climate change, regulating greenhouse gas emissions, energy policies and sustainability, including single use plastics. This new or increased focus may result in new or increasingly stringent laws and regulations that could increase the risk that we are subject to litigation or government enforcement actions and require us to incur increased legal, accounting and financial compliance costs, make some activities more difficult, time-consuming and costly, and place strain on our personnel, systems and resources. In particular, increasing regulation of fuel emissions could substantially increase the distribution and supply chain costs associated with our products. In addition, consumers and customers may put an increased priority on purchasing products that are sustainably grown and made, requiring us to incur increased costs for additional transparency, due diligence and reporting. Our business may face increased scrutiny from the investment community, customers, consumers, employees, activists, media, regulators and other stakeholders related to our sustainability initiatives, including the goals, targets and objectives that we announce, and our methodologies and timelines for pursuing them. Any failure to meet or delay in meeting, or perceived failure to meet or delay in meeting, stakeholder expectations on environmental or sustainability matters or any perception of a failure to act responsibly with respect to the environment could lead to adverse publicity, which could damage our reputation, which in turn could adversely impact our financial results or our ability to raise capital, as well as expose us to regulatory and legal risks. As a result, climate change as well as actions taken to mitigate climate change could negatively affect our business and operations. 18 Risks Related to Our Operations A shortage in the labor pool, failure to successfully negotiate collectively bargained agreements, or other general inflationary pressures or changes in applicable laws and regulations could increase labor cost, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated operating results or financial condition . Our labor costs include the cost of providing benefits for employees. We sponsor a number of benefit plans for employees in the United States and various foreign locations, including pension, retiree health and welfare, active health care, severance and other post-employment benefits. We also participate in multiemployer pension plans for certain of our manufacturing locations. Our major pension plans and U.S. collectively bargained retiree health and welfare plans are funded with trust assets invested in a globally diversified portfolio of equity securities with smaller holdings of bonds, real estate and other investments. The annual cost of benefits can vary significantly from year to year and is materially affected by such factors as changes in the assumed or actual rate of return on major plan assets, a change in the weighted-average discount rate used to measure obligations, the rate or trend of health care cost inflation, and the outcome of collectively-bargained wage and benefit agreements. Many of our employees are covered by collectively-bargained agreements and other employees may seek to be covered by collectively-bargained agreements. Strikes or work stoppages and interruptions have occurred and could occur in the future at any collectively-bargained location if we are unable to renew our current collective bargaining agreements on satisfactory terms or enter into new agreements on satisfactory terms, which could adversely impact our operating results. The terms and conditions of existing, renegotiated or new agreements could also increase our costs or otherwise affect our ability to fully implement future operational changes to enhance our efficiency. Furthermore, we rely on access to competitive, local labor supply, including skilled and unskilled positions, to operate our business consistently and reliably. We may encounter difficulty recruiting sufficient numbers of personnel at acceptable wage and benefit levels due to the competitive labor market. Our inability to attract, develop and retain the personnel necessary for the efficient operation of our business could result in higher costs and decreased productivity and efficiency, which may have a material adverse effect on our performance. Multiemployer pension plans could adversely affect our business . We participate in “multiemployer” pension plans administered by labor unions representing some of our U.S. based employees. We make periodic contributions to these plans to allow them to meet their pension benefit obligations to their participants. Our required contributions to these funds could increase because of a shrinking contribution base as a result of the insolvency or withdrawal of other companies that currently contribute to these funds, inability or failure of withdrawing companies to pay their withdrawal liability, lower than expected returns on pension fund assets or other funding deficiencies. In the event that we withdraw from participation in one of these plans, then applicable law could require us to make withdrawal liability payments, and we would have to reflect that as an expense in our consolidated statement of operations and as a liability on our consolidated balance sheet. Our withdrawal liability obligation to a multiemployer plan would depend, in part, on the extent of the plan’s funding of vested benefits. In the ordinary course of our renegotiation of collective bargaining agreements with labor unions that maintain these plans, we may decide to discontinue participation in a plan, and in that event, we could face a withdrawal liability. One of the multiemployer plans in which we participate is reported to have significant underfunded liabilities. Such underfunding could impact the size of our potential withdrawal liability. Our postretirement benefit-related costs and funding requirements could increase as a result of volatility in the financial markets, changes in interest rates and actuarial assumptions . Increases in the costs of postretirement medical and pension benefits may continue and could negatively affect our business as a result of increased usage of medical benefits by retired employees and medical cost inflation, an increase in participants enrolled, the effect of potential declines in the stock and bond markets on the performance of our pension and post-retirement plan assets, potential reductions in the discount rate used to determine the present value of our benefit obligations, and changes to our investment strategy that may impact our expected return on pension and post-retirement plan assets assumptions. U.S. generally accepted accounting principles require that we calculate income or expense for the plans using actuarial valuations. These valuations reflect assumptions about financial markets and interest rates, which may change based on economic conditions. The Company’s accounting policy for defined benefit plans may subject earnings to volatility due to the recognition of actuarial gains and losses, particularly those due to the change in the fair value of pension and post-retirement plan assets and interest rates. In addition, funding requirements for our plans may become more significant. However, the ultimate amounts to be contributed are dependent upon, among other things, interest rates, underlying asset returns, and the impact of legislative or regulatory changes related to pension and post-retirement funding obligations. We use available borrowings under the credit facilities and other available debt financing for cash to operate our business, which subjects us to market and counter-party risk, some of which is beyond our control. In addition to cash we generate from our business, our principal existing sources of cash are borrowings available under our credit facilities and other available debt financing. If our access to such financing was 19 unavailable or reduced, or if such financing were to become significantly more expensive for any reason, we may not be able to fund daily operations, which would cause material harm to our business or could affect our ability to operate our business as a going concern. In addition, if certain of our lenders experience difficulties that render them unable to fund future draws on the facilities, we may not be able to access all or a portion of these funds, which could have similar adverse consequences. We utilize extended payment terms for customers supplemented with receivable sales programs (or “monetization programs”). We also utilize accounts payable tracking systems, which facilitate participating suppliers’ ability to monitor and, if elected at their discretion, sell payment obligations from the Company to designated third-party financial institutions. Together, these programs assist in helping to effectively managing our core working capital.  If the extension of customer payment terms is reversed, if we shorten supplier payment terms through negotiation or due to regulation, or if financial institutions terminate their participation in these programs, our ability to maintain current levels of core working capital could be adversely impacted. Our principal source of liquidity is operating cash flows supplemented by borrowings for major acquisitions and other significant transactions. In order to mitigate the net working capital impact of offering extended customer payment terms, we entered into agreements to sell, on a revolving basis, certain trade accounts receivable balances to third party financial institutions (Monetization Programs).  In addition, we have agreements with third parties (Accounts Payable Tracking Systems) to offer structured payables programs to our suppliers. Participating suppliers may, if elected at their discretion, make offers to sell one or more payment obligations of the Company prior to their scheduled due dates at a discounted price to participating financial institutions. If financial institutions were to terminate their participation in the Monetization Programs and we are not able to modify related customer payment terms, working capital could be negatively impacted. Additionally, working capital could be negatively impacted if we shorten our supplier payment terms as a result of supplier negotiations or as a result of regulations regarding payment terms. For suppliers participating in the Accounts Payable Tracking Systems, financial institutions may terminate their participation or we could experience a downgrade in our credit rating that could result in higher costs to suppliers. If working capital is negatively impacted as a result of these events and we were unable to secure alternative programs, we may have to utilize our various financing arrangements for short-term liquidity or increase our long-term borrowings. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness. We have indebtedness that is substantial in relation to our shareholders’ equity, and we may incur additional indebtedness in the future, or enter into off-balance sheet financing, which would increase our leverage risks. As of December 30, 2023, we had total debt of approximately $5.9 billion and total Kellanova equity of $3.2 billion. Our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences, including (i) impairing the ability to access global capital markets to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures or general corporate purposes, particularly if the ratings assigned to our debt securities by rating organizations were revised downward or if a rating organization announces that our ratings are under review for a potential downgrade, (ii) a downgrade in our credit ratings, particularly our short-term credit rating, would likely reduce the amount of commercial paper we could issue, increase our commercial paper borrowing costs, or both, (iii) restricting our flexibility in responding to changing market conditions or making us more vulnerable in the event of a general downturn in economic conditions or our business, (iv) requiring a substantial portion of the cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our debt, reducing the funds available to us for other purposes such as expansion through acquisitions, paying dividends, repurchasing shares, marketing and other spending and expansion of our product offerings, (v) and causing us to be more leveraged than some of our competitors, which may place us at a competitive disadvantage. Our ability to make scheduled payments or to refinance our obligations with respect to indebtedness or incur new indebtedness will depend on our financial and operating performance, which in turn, is subject to prevailing economic conditions, the availability of, and interest rates on, short-term financing, and financial, business and other factors beyond our control. An impairment of the carrying value of goodwill or other acquired intangibles could negatively affect our consolidated operating results and net worth. The carrying value of goodwill represents the fair value of acquired businesses in excess of identifiable assets and liabilities as of the acquisition date. The carrying value of other intangibles represents the fair value of trademarks, trade names, and other acquired intangibles as of the acquisition date. Goodwill and other acquired intangibles expected to contribute indefinitely to our cash flows are not amortized, but must be evaluated by management at least annually for impairment. If carrying value exceeds current fair value, the intangible is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value via a charge to earnings. Factors which could result in an impairment include, but are not limited to: (i) reduced demand for our products; (ii) higher commodity prices; (iii) lower prices for our products or increased marketing as a result of increased competition; and (iv) significant disruptions to our operations as a result of both internal and external events. Should the value of one or more of the acquired intangibles become impaired, our consolidated earnings and net worth may 20 be materially adversely affected. For example, as a result of the annual impairment testing in 2023 the Company recognized a non-cash impairment of $34 million in selling, general and administrative expense related to a brand in the North America operating segment that relates to snack category products. Any significant sustained adverse change in consumer purchasing behaviors, government restrictions, financial results, or macroeconomic conditions could result in future impairments. As of December 30, 2023, the carrying value of intangible assets totaled approximately $7.0 billion, of which $5.2 billion was goodwill and $1.8 billion represented trademarks, tradenames, and other acquired intangibles compared to total assets of $15.6 billion and total Kellanova equity of $3.2 billion. Risks Related to Regulations and Litigation We face risks related to tax matters, including changes in tax rates, disagreements with taxing authorities and imposition of new taxes . The Company is subject to taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions where the Company’s subsidiaries are organized. Due to economic and political conditions (including shifts in the geopolitical landscape), tax rates in the U.S. and various foreign jurisdictions have been and may be subject to significant change. The future effective tax rate could be effected by changes in mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in valuation of deferred tax asset and liabilities, or changes in tax laws or their interpretation which includes the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the “U.S. Tax Reform”) and contemplated changes in other countries of long-standing tax principles if finalized and adopted could have a material impact on our income tax expense and deferred tax balances. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) has introduced a framework to implement a global minimum corporate income tax. Several countries in which we operate have adopted, and others are in the process of introducing and finalizing legislation to implement the global minimum corporate income tax.  Many aspects of the framework will be effective for tax years beginning in January 2024, with certain remaining impacts to be effective in 2025. While we do not expect the global minimum corporate income tax to have a material impact to our effective tax rate in 2024, as the OECD releases additional guidance and countries implement legislation, we will continue to analyze any potential impacts. To the extent that additional OECD and legislative changes take place in countries we operate, it is possible the changes may adversely impact our effective tax rate. We are also subject to regular reviews, examinations and audits by the Internal Revenue Service and other taxing authorities with respect to taxes inside and outside of the U.S. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, if a taxing authority disagrees with the positions we have taken, we could face additional tax liability, including interest and penalties. There can be no assurance that payment of such additional amounts upon final adjudication of any disputes will not have a material impact on our results of operations and financial position. We also need to comply with new, evolving or revised tax laws and regulations. The enactment of or increases in tariffs, including value added tax, or other changes in the application of existing taxes, in markets in which we are currently active, or may be active in the future, or on specific products that we sell or with which our products compete, may have an adverse effect on our business or on our results of operations. If our food products become adulterated, misbranded or mislabeled, we might need to recall those items and may experience regulatory enforcement and product liability claims if consumers are injured or damaged as a result. Selling food products involves a number of legal, regulatory and other risks, including product contamination, foreign objects, food-borne illnesses, spoilage, product tampering, allergens, or other adulteration, which could result in product liability claims. We may need to recall some of our products if they become adulterated or misbranded. We may also be liable if the consumption of any of our products causes injury, illness or death. A widespread product recall or market withdrawal could result in significant losses due to their costs, the destruction of product inventory, and lost sales due to the unavailability of product for a period of time. We could also suffer losses from a significant product liability or consumer fraud judgment against us. In addition, we could be the target of claims that our advertising is false or deceptive under U.S. federal and state laws as well as foreign laws, including federal and state consumer protection statutes. Allegations of consumer fraud may result in fines, settlements and litigation expenses. A significant product recall, product liability or consumer fraud case could also result in adverse publicity, damage to our reputation, and a loss of consumer confidence in our food products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business results and the value of our brands. Moreover, even if a product liability or consumer fraud claim is meritless, does not prevail or is not pursued, the negative publicity surrounding assertions against our company and our products or processes could adversely affect our reputation or brands. We could also be adversely affected if consumers lose confidence in the safety and quality of certain food products or ingredients, or the food safety system generally. If another company recalls or experiences negative publicity related to a product in a category in which we compete, consumers might reduce their overall consumption of products in this category. Adverse publicity about these types of concerns, whether or not valid, may discourage consumers from buying our products or cause production and delivery disruptions. Evolving tax, advertising, environmental, licensing, labeling, trade, food quality and safety, intellectual property, data privacy, artificial intelligence, or other regulations or failure to comply with existing regulations and laws could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition. Our 21 activities and products, including our operation of our manufacturing facilities, both in and outside of the United States, are subject to regulation by various federal, state, provincial and local laws, regulations and government agencies, including the U.S. Food and Drug Administration, U.S. Federal Trade Commission, the U.S. Departments of Agriculture, Commerce and Labor, U.S. Customs and Border Protection, as well as similar and other authorities outside of the United States, International Accords and Treaties and others, including voluntary regulation by other bodies. Legal and regulatory systems can change quickly. In addition, legal and regulatory systems in emerging and developing markets may be less developed, and less certain. These laws and regulations and interpretations thereof may change, sometimes dramatically, as a result of a variety of factors, including political, economic, regulatory or social events. In addition, the enforcement of remedies in certain foreign jurisdictions may be less certain, resulting in varying abilities to enforce intellectual property and contractual rights. The manufacturing, marketing and distribution of food products are subject to governmental regulations that impose additional regulatory requirements. Those regulations control such matters as food quality and safety (including the condition and operation of our manufacturing facilities where food is processed), ingredients, advertising and marketing (including, among other limitations, restricting the age of consumers to whom products are marketed and data privacy requirements), product or production requirements, labeling, sustainability of packaging (including plastics), import or export of our products or ingredients, relations with distributors and retailers, health and safety, the environment, and restrictions on the use of government programs, such as Supplemental Nutritional Assistance Program and the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants and Children, to purchase certain of our products. The marketing of food products has come under increased regulatory scrutiny in recent years, and the food industry has been subject to an increasing number of proceedings and claims relating to alleged false or deceptive labeling and marketing under federal, state and foreign laws or regulations. We are also regulated with respect to matters such as licensing requirements, trade and pricing practices, tax, anti-corruption standards, advertising and claims, data privacy, and environmental matters. The need to comply with new, evolving or revised tax, environmental, food quality and safety, labeling, data privacy, or other laws or regulations, or new, evolving or changed interpretations or enforcement of existing laws or regulations, may have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Governmental and administrative bodies within the U.S. are considering a variety of trade and other regulatory reforms. Changes in legal or regulatory requirements (such as new food safety requirements and revised nutrition facts labeling, including front of pack labeling, and serving size regulations, and new corporate sustainability reporting requirements in the EU and elsewhere), or evolving interpretations of existing legal or regulatory requirements, may result in increased compliance costs, capital expenditures and other financial obligations that could adversely affect our business or financial results. If we are found to be out of compliance with applicable laws and regulations in these areas, we could be subject to civil remedies, including fines, injunctions, termination of necessary licenses or permits, or recalls, as well as potential criminal sanctions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Even if regulatory review does not result in these types of determinations, it could potentially create negative publicity or perceptions which could harm our business or reputation. Modifications to international trade policy, including the ratification of the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement, changes in the European Union (such as Brexit), or the imposition of increased or new tariffs, quotas or trade barriers on key commodities with other countries could have a negative impact on us or the industries we serve, including as a result of related uncertainty, and could materially and adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Higher duties on existing tariffs or additional tariffs imposed by the United States on a broader range of imports, or further retaliatory trade measures taken by China or other countries in response, could result in an increase in supply chain costs that we are not able to offset. Our operations in certain emerging markets expose us to political, economic and regulatory risks. Our growth strategy depends in part on our ability to expand our operations in emerging markets. However, some emerging markets have greater political, economic and currency volatility and greater vulnerability to infrastructure and labor disruptions than more established markets. In many countries outside of the United States, particularly those with emerging economies, it may be common for others to engage in business practices prohibited by laws and regulations with extraterritorial reach, such as the FCPA and the UKBA, or local anti-bribery laws. These laws generally prohibit companies and their employees, contractors or agents from making improper payments to government officials, including in connection with obtaining permits or engaging in other actions necessary to do business. Failure to comply with these laws could subject us to civil and criminal penalties that could materially and adversely affect our reputation, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, competition in emerging markets is increasing as our competitors grow their global operations and low cost local manufacturers expand and improve their production capacities. Our success in emerging markets is critical to our growth strategy. If we cannot 22 successfully increase our business in emerging markets and manage associated political, economic and regulatory risks, our product sales, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. Risks Related to Our Intellectual Property and Technology Technology failures, cyber incidents, security incidents, privacy breaches or data breaches could disrupt our operations or reputation and negatively impact our business. We increasingly rely on information technology systems and third-party service providers, including through the internet, to process, transmit, and store electronic information. For example, our production and distribution facilities and inventory management utilize information technology to increase efficiencies and limit costs. Information technology systems are also integral to the reporting of our results of operations. Furthermore, a significant portion of the communications between, and storage of personal information of, our personnel, customers, consumers and suppliers depends on information technology. Our information technology systems, and the systems of the parties we communicate and collaborate with, may be vulnerable to a variety of interruptions, such as a result of our employees working remotely, the updating of our enterprise platform or due to events beyond our or their control, including, but not limited to, network or hardware failures, malicious or disruptive software, unintentional or malicious actions of employees or contractors, cyberattacks by common hackers, criminal groups or nation-state organizations or social-activist (hacktivist) organizations, geopolitical events, natural disasters, a pandemic illness, failures or impairments of telecommunications networks, or other catastrophic events. Moreover, our computer systems have been, and will likely continue to be subjected to computer viruses, malware, ransomware or other malicious codes, social engineering attacks, unauthorized access attempts, password theft, physical breaches, employee or inside error, malfeasance and cyber- or phishing-attacks. Cyber threats are constantly evolving, are becoming more sophisticated and are being made by groups and individuals with a wide range of expertise and motives, and this increases the difficulty of detecting and successfully defending against them. While we have implemented physical, administrative, and technical controls and taken other preventive actions, such as the maintenance of an information security program that includes updating our technology and security policies, insurance, employee training, and monitoring and routinely testing our information technology systems to reduce the risk of cyber incidents and protect our information technology; however, these measures may be insufficient to prevent physical and electronic break-ins, cyber-attacks or other security breaches to our computer systems. Further, the Company (or third parties it relies on) may not be able to fully, continuously, and effectively implement security controls as intended. We utilize a risk-based approach and judgment to determine the security controls to implement and it is possible we may not implement appropriate controls if we do not recognize or underestimate a particular risk.  In addition, security controls, no matter how well designed or implemented, may only mitigate and not fully eliminate risks. Moreover, events detected by security tools or third parties may not always be immediately understood or acted upon. These events could compromise our confidential information, impede or interrupt our business operations, and may result in other negative consequences, including remediation costs, loss of revenue, litigation and reputational damage. If a security incident, breach or other breakdown results in disclosure of confidential or personal information, we may suffer reputational, competitive and/or business harm. To date, we have not experienced a material breach of cyber security. For more information regarding the Company's cybersecurity activities, see Item 1C of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Company offers promotions, rebates, customer loyalty and other programs through which it may receive personal information, and it or its vendors could experience cyber incidents, security incidents, privacy breaches, data breaches, security breaches or other incidents that result in unauthorized disclosure of consumer, customer, employee or Company information. The Company must also successfully integrate the technology systems of acquired companies into the Company’s existing and future technology systems. In addition, we must comply with increasingly complex and rigorous regulatory standards enacted to protect business and personal information in the United States and other jurisdictions regarding privacy, data protection, and data security, including those related to the collection, storage, handling, use, disclosure, transfer, and security of personal information. There continues to be significant uncertainty with respect to compliance with such privacy and data protection laws and regulations, including with respect to the European Union General Data Protection Regulation (the “GDPR”) and the California Consumer Privacy Act of 2018 (the “CCPA”) and the California Privacy Rights Act because these laws are continuously evolving and developing and may be interpreted and applied differently from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and may create inconsistent or conflicting requirements. In the United States, several other states have introduced or passed similar privacy legislation, which may impose varying standards and requirements on our data collection, use and processing activities. Our efforts to comply with privacy and data protection laws, including the GDPR, CCPA and CPRA, may impose significant costs and challenges that are likely to increase over time. If the Company suffers a loss as a result of a breach or other breakdown in its technology, including such cyber incidents, security incidents, privacy breaches, data breaches, security breaches, issues with or errors in system 23 maintenance or security, migration of applications to the cloud, power outages, hardware or software failures, denial of service, telecommunication or other incident involving one of the Company's vendors, that result in unauthorized disclosure or significant unavailability of business, financial, personal or stakeholder information, the Company may suffer reputational, competitive and/or business harm and may be exposed to legal liability and government investigations, which may adversely affect the Company's results of operations and/or financial condition. The misuse, leakage or falsification of information could result in violations of data privacy laws and the Company may become subject to legal action and increased regulatory oversight. The Company could also be required to spend significant financial and other resources to remedy the damage caused by a security incident or security breach or to repair or replace networks and information systems. In addition, if the Company's suppliers or customers experience such a security incident, security breach or unauthorized disclosure or system failure, their businesses could be disrupted or otherwise negatively affected, which may result in a disruption in the Company's supply chain or reduced customer orders, which would adversely affect the Company's business operations. We have also outsourced several information technology support services and administrative functions to third-party service providers, including cloud-based service providers, and may outsource other functions in the future to achieve cost savings and efficiencies. If these service providers do not perform effectively due to breach or system failure, we may not be able to achieve the expected benefits and our business may be disrupted. Our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products and brands. Our intellectual property rights are a significant and valuable aspect of our business and include trademarks, patents, trade secrets, and copyrights owned or licensed under certain licensing agreements. We attempt to protect these intellectual property rights using the appropriate laws and agreements including licenses, development agreements, nondisclosure agreements, and assignments. We also police third party misuses of our intellectual property in traditional retail and digital environments. Our failure to obtain or adequately protect our intellectual property rights may diminish our competitiveness and could materially harm our business. Similarly, changes in applicable laws or other changes that serve to lessen or remove the current legal protections of our intellectual property, may also diminish our competitiveness and could materially harm our business. We may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our technology, brands or products or operations. In addition, if, in the course of developing new products or improving the quality of existing products, we are found to have infringed the intellectual property rights of others, directly or indirectly, such finding could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations and may limit our ability to introduce new products or improve the quality of existing products. Any litigation regarding intellectual property rights could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. Third party claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into costly license agreements. We also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of certain products. General Risk Factors We are subject to risks generally associated with companies that operate globally . We are a global company and generated almost half of our net sales for both 2023 and 2022 outside the United States. We manufacture our products in 21 countries and have operations in more than 180 countries, so we are subject to risks inherent in multinational operations. Those risks include (i) compliance with U.S. laws affecting operations outside of the United States, such as OFAC trade sanction regulations and Anti-Boycott regulations, (ii) compliance with anti-corruption laws, including the FCPA and UK Bribery Act (the “UKBA”), (iii) compliance with antitrust and competition laws, data privacy laws, and a variety of other local, national and multi-national regulations and laws in multiple regimes, (iv) changes in tax laws, interpretation of tax laws and tax audit outcomes, (v) fluctuations or devaluations in currency values, especially in emerging markets, (vi) changes in capital controls, including currency exchange controls, government currency policies or other limits on our ability to import raw materials or finished product or repatriate cash from outside the United States, (vii) changes in local regulations and laws, the lack of well-established, reliable and/or impartial legal systems in certain countries in which we operate and the uncertainty of enforcement of remedies in such jurisdictions, and foreign ownership restrictions and the potential for nationalization or expropriation of property or other resources, (viii) laws relating to information security, privacy (including the GDPR), cashless payments, and consumer protection, (ix) the ongoing longer-term impact of changes in international trade policies (including Brexit) on the local and international markets, the flow of goods and materials across borders, and political environments, (x) discriminatory or conflicting fiscal policies, (xi) challenges associated with cross-border product distribution, (xii) increased sovereign risk, such as default by or deterioration in the economies and credit worthiness of local governments, (xiii) varying abilities to enforce intellectual property, contractual, and other legal rights, (xiv) greater risk of uncollectible accounts and longer collection cycles, (xv) loss of ability to manage our operations in certain markets which could result in the deconsolidation of such businesses, (xvi) design and implementation of effective control environment processes across our diverse operations and employee base, (xvii) imposition of more or new tariffs, quotas, trade barriers, price controls, and similar restrictions in the countries in which we or our suppliers or manufacturers operate or regulations, taxes or policies that might negatively affect our 24 sales, (xviii) changes in trade policies and trade relations, (xix) greater risk of uncollectible accounts or trade receivables and longer collection cycles, and (xx) political sentiment impacting global trade, including the willingness of non-U.S. consumers to purchase from U.S. corporations. In addition, political and economic changes or volatility, geopolitical regional conflicts, terrorist activity, political unrest and government shutdowns, civil strife, acts of war, public corruption, expropriation and other economic or political or social uncertainties could interrupt and negatively affect our business operations or customer demand. The slowdown in economic growth or high unemployment in some emerging markets could constrain consumer spending, and declining consumer purchasing power could adversely impact our profitability. Dynamics associated with the federal and state debt and budget challenges in the United States could adversely affect us. All of these factors could result in increased costs or decreased revenues, and could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition and results of operations. There may be uncertainty as a result of key global events during 2023 that are expected to continue throughout 2024. For example, rising interest rates and inflation, recessionary pressures, geopolitical uncertainty, including wars and conflicts, fiscal and monetary policy uncertainty, international trade disputes, as well as ongoing terrorist activity, may adversely impact global stock markets (including The New York Stock Exchange on which our common shares are traded) and general global economic conditions. All of these factors are outside of our control but may nonetheless cause us to adjust our strategy in order to compete effectively in global markets. Our performance is affected by general economic, political and social conditions and taxation policies . C ustomer and consumer demand for our products may be impacted by the negative impacts caused by pandemics and public health crises, recession, financial and credit market disruptions, government shutdowns or other economic downturns in the United States or other nations. Our results in the past have been, and in the future may continue to be, materially affected by changes in general economic, political and social conditions in the United States and other countries, including the interest rate environment in which we conduct business, the financial markets through which we access capital and currency, trade policy, political and social unrest and terrorist acts in the United States or other countries in which we carry on business. Deteriorating economic conditions in our major markets, such as inflation, economic slowdowns or recessions, increased unemployment, decreases in disposable income, declines in consumer confidence, could result in reductions in sales of our products, reduced acceptance of innovations, and increased price competition. Such deterioration in any of the countries in which we do business could also cause slower collections on accounts receivable which may adversely impact our liquidity and financial condition. Financial institutions may be negatively impacted by economic conditions, including rising inflation and interest rates, and may consolidate or cease to do business which could result in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and increased volatility in fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets. Adverse macroeconomic conditions have increased volatility and pricing in the capital markets and as a result, we may not have access to preferred sources of liquidity when needed or on terms we find acceptable, causing our borrowing costs could increase. An economic or credit crisis could impair credit availability and our ability to raise capital when needed. A disruption in the financial markets may have a negative effect on our derivative counterparties and could impair our banking or other business partners, on whom we rely for access to capital and as counterparties to our derivative contracts. Any of these events would likely harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our operations face significant foreign currency exchange rate exposure and currency restrictions which could negatively impact our operating results . We hold assets and incur liabilities, earn revenue and pay expenses in a variety of currencies other than the U.S. dollar, including the euro, British pound, Australian dollar, Canadian dollar, Mexican peso, Brazilian real, and Nigerian naira. Because our consolidated financial statements are presented in U.S. dollars, we must translate our assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses into U.S. dollars at then-applicable exchange rates and face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. For example, during the second quarter of 2023, the Nigerian government removed certain currency restrictions over the Nigerian Naira leading to a significant decline in the exchange rate of the Naira to the U.S. dollar on the official market in Nigeria. As a result of this decline in the exchange rate, the U.S. dollar value of the assets, liabilities, expenses and revenues of our Nigerian business in our consolidated financial statements decreased significantly compared to prior periods. Geopolitical and international regulatory events, uncertainty or other factors may have a negative effect on global economic conditions, financial markets and our business. Global political uncertainties, disruptions or major regulatory or policy changes, and/or the enforcement thereof may affect our business, financial performance, operations or products, including the ongoing impact of changes in international trade policies (for example, the United Kingdom’s exit from the European Union). While trading through Brexit has become normal course of business, we continue to closely monitor and manage our inventory levels of imported raw materials, packaging and 25 finished goods in the UK. We have made investments in resources, systems and processes to meet the new ongoing requirements and we work to mitigate disruptions to our local supply chain and distribution to reduce the impact on our input and distribution costs. As the EU and U.K. amend legislation and regulation post-Brexit, there is a risk of increased divergence between the EU and U.K. regulatory regimes and we continue to monitor for divergence in regulatory rules which could impact our supply chain operations. Despite our efforts to control costs, we have continued to see inflationary cost pressures rise in our UK business this year, as we have also experienced in other markets. If the UK’s exit from, or new trade arrangements with, the EU negatively impact the UK economy or result in disagreements on trade terms then the impact to our operations, financial condition and cash flows could be material. Potential liabilities and costs from litigation could adversely affect our business. There is no guarantee that we will be successful in defending our self in civil, criminal or regulatory actions (inclusive of class action lawsuits and foreign litigation), including under general, commercial, employment, environmental, data privacy or security, intellectual property, food quality and safety, anti-trust and trade, advertising and claims, and environmental laws and regulations, or in asserting our rights under various laws. For example, our marketing or claims could face allegations of false or deceptive advertising or other criticisms which could end up in litigation and result in potential liabilities or costs. As a result, we could incur substantial costs and fees in defending our self or in asserting our rights in these actions or meeting new legal requirements. The costs and other effects of potential and pending litigation and administrative actions against us, and new legal requirements, cannot be determined with certainty and may differ from expectations. In addition, we may be impacted by litigation trends, including class action lawsuits involving consumers, employees, and shareholders, which could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, the market price of our common stock, results of operations and financial condition.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

Kellanova and Subsidiaries RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Business overview The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A) is intended to help the reader understand Kellanova, our operations and our present business environment. MD&A is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying notes thereto contained in Item 8 of this Report. For more than 115 years, consumers have counted on Kellanova for great-tasting, high-quality and nutritious foods. These foods include snacks, such as crackers, savory snacks, toaster pastries, cereal bars and bites; and convenience foods, such as ready-to-eat cereals, frozen waffles, veggie foods and noodles. Kellanova products are manufactured and marketed globally.  Our MD&A references consumption and net sales in discussing our sales trends for certain categories and brands.  We record net sales upon delivery of shipments to our customers. Consumption and share data noted within is based on Nielsen x-AOC or other comparable source, for the applicable period. Consumption refers to consumer purchases of our products from our customers. Unless otherwise noted, consumption and shipment trends are materially consistent. Separation transaction On June 21, 2022, the Company announced its intent to separate its North American cereal business, via tax-free spin-off. The transaction was completed on October 2, 2023, resulting in two independent public companies, Kellanova and WK Kellogg Co. In accordance with applicable accounting guidance, the results of WK Kellogg Co are presented as discontinued operations in the Kellanova consolidated statement of income and, as such, have been excluded from both continuing operations and segment results for all periods presented. The recast operating profit includes certain costs that are reported in continuing operations but relate to items that will be reimbursed by the transition services agreement (“TSA”) with WK Kellogg Co. We expect that the costs for such services will be fully reimbursed under the TSA for the applicable future periods. Following the end of the TSA period, we expect that such costs will no longer be incurred by Kellanova. Further, the Company reclassified the assets and liabilities of WK Kellogg Co as assets and liabilities of discontinued operations in the consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2022. The consolidated statements of cash flows are presented on a consolidated basis for both continuing operations and discontinued operations. Nigerian Naira During the second quarter of 2023, the Nigerian government removed certain currency restrictions over the Nigerian Naira leading to a significant decline in the exchange rate of the Naira to the U.S. dollar on the official market in Nigeria. As a result of this decline in the exchange rate, the U.S. dollar value of the assets, liabilities, expenses and revenues of our Nigerian business in our consolidated financial statements has decreased significantly compared to prior periods. The consolidated assets of our Nigerian business represented approximately 5% of our consolidated assets as of December 30, 2023, compared to 8% as of December 31, 2022. Net sales of our Nigerian business were 8% of our consolidated net sales for the year ended December 30, 2023 but could become a smaller percentage of our overall sales if exchange rates as of the end of the year persist or decline further in 2024. In addition to our consolidated Nigerian business, the Company also has an investment in an unconsolidated entity, Tolaram Africa Foods PTE LTD (TAF), that holds an investment in a Nigerian food manufacturer. This investment is accounted for under the equity method of accounting and is evaluated for indicators of other than temporary impairment. During 2023, the Company recorded significant foreign currency translation adjustments related to its investment in TAF due to the devaluation of the Nigerian Naira. The Company, following its accounting practice of recording the operations of its subsidiary, TAF, on a one-month lag basis has recognized these adjustments based on the foreign currency exchange rates as of the end of November 2023. The aggregate effect of these adjustments for the year resulted in translation losses of approximately $141 million, which have been recognized in other comprehensive income. 29 War in Ukraine The war in Ukraine and the related sanctions imposed have increased global economic and geopolitical uncertainty. In March 2022, we suspended all new investments and shipments of all products to Russia. We have no employees or direct operations in Ukraine. Our business in Russia consisted of three manufacturing facilities. In December 2022 the Company entered into an agreement to sell our Russian business to a third party, pending a number of local government regulatory approvals. In July 2023 the Company completed the sale of the Russian business. As a result of completing the transaction, the Company derecognized net assets of approximately $65 million and recorded a non-cash loss on the transaction of approximately $113 million, primarily related to the release of historical currency translation adjustments. The business was part of the Europe reportable segment and the sale resulted in a complete exit from the Russian market. The business in Russia represented approximately 1% of consolidated Kellanova net sales. Impacts of the war to our net sales, earnings, and cash flows extends beyond our business in Russia. Regional or global economic recessions, inflation, and supply chain challenges as a result of the war or further escalation could have a material impact on our results. Inflationary pressures Geopolitical instability, including wars and conflicts (including conflicts in Ukraine and the Middle East), as well as other global events have resulted in certain impacts to the global economy, including market disruptions, supply chain challenges, and inflationary pressures. During the year ended December 30, 2023 we continued to experience elevated commodity and supply chain costs, including procurement and manufacturing costs, although certain supply chain challenges have eased. We continue to mitigate the dollar impact of this input cost inflation through the execution of productivity initiatives and revenue growth management actions. Additionally, from time to time we may enter into a combination of fixed price contracts with suppliers and commodity derivative instruments to manage the impact of volatility in the price of raw materials. We continue to expect input cost inflation to be flat during 2024. Segments We manage our operations through four operating segments that are based on geographic location – North America which includes the U.S. businesses and Canada; Europe which consists principally of European countries; Latin America which consists of Central and South America and includes Mexico; and AMEA (Asia Middle East Africa) which consists of Africa, Middle East, Australia and other Asian and Pacific markets.  These operating segments also represent our reportable segments Non-GAAP Financial Measures This filing includes non-GAAP financial measures that we provide to management and investors that exclude certain items that we do not consider part of on-going operations. Reported results were prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, include all net sales and expenses recognized during the periods. Items excluded from our non-GAAP financial measures are discussed in the "Significant items impacting comparability" section of this filing. Our management team consistently utilizes a combination of GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures to evaluate business results, to make decisions regarding the future direction of our business, and for resource allocation decisions, including incentive compensation. As a result, we believe the presentation of both GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures provides investors with increased transparency into financial measures used by our management team and improves investors’ understanding of our underlying operating performance and in their analysis of ongoing operating trends. All historic non-GAAP financial measures have been reconciled with the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Non-GAAP financial measures used for evaluation of performance include currency-neutral and organic net sales, adjusted and currency-neutral adjusted operating profit, adjusted and currency-neutral adjusted diluted earnings per share (EPS), adjusted and currency-neutral adjusted gross profit, adjusted and currency neutral adjusted gross margin, net debt and cash flow. We determine currency-neutral results by dividing or multiplying, as appropriate, the current-period local currency operating results by the currency exchange rates used to translate our financial statements in the comparable prior-year period to determine what the current period U.S. dollar operating results would have been if the currency exchange rate had not changed from the comparable prior-year period.  These non-GAAP financial measures may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies. 30 • Currency-neutral net sales and organic net sales : We adjust the GAAP financial measure to exclude the impact of foreign currency, resulting in currency-neutral net sales. In addition, we exclude the impact of acquisitions, divestitures, and foreign currency, resulting in organic net sales. We excluded the items which we believe may obscure trends in our underlying net sales performance. By providing these non-GAAP net sales measures, management intends to provide investors with a meaningful, consistent comparison of net sales performance for the Company and each of our reportable segments for the periods presented. Management uses these non-GAAP measures to evaluate the effectiveness of initiatives behind net sales growth, pricing realization, and the impact of mix on our business results. These non-GAAP measures are also used to make decisions regarding the future direction of our business, and for resource allocation decisions. • Adjusted: gross profit, gross margin, operating profit, operating margin, and diluted EPS : We adjust the GAAP financial measures to exclude the effect of restructuring programs, costs of the separation transaction , mark-to-market adjustments for pension plans (service cost, interest cost, expected return on plan assets, and other net periodic pension costs are not excluded), commodity contracts, certain equity investments and certain foreign currency contracts, a gain on interest rate swaps, and other costs impacting comparability resulting in adjusted. We excluded the items which we believe may obscure trends in our underlying profitability. By providing these non-GAAP profitability measures, management intends to provide investors with a meaningful, consistent comparison of the Company's profitability measures for the periods presented. Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures to evaluate the effectiveness of initiatives intended to improve profitability, as well as to evaluate the impacts of inflationary pressures and decisions to invest in new initiatives within each of our segments. • Currency-neutral adjusted: gross profit, gross margin, operating profit, operating margin, and diluted EPS : We adjust the GAAP financial measures to exclude the effect of restructuring programs, costs of the separation transaction, mark-to-market adjustments for pension plans (service cost, interest cost, expected return on plan assets, and other net periodic pension costs are not excluded), commodity contracts, certain equity investments and certain foreign currency contracts, a gain on interest rate swaps, other costs impacting comparability, and foreign currency, resulting in currency-neutral adjusted. We excluded the items which we believe may obscure trends in our underlying profitability. By providing these non-GAAP profitability measures, management intends to provide investors with a meaningful, consistent comparison of the Company's profitability measures for the periods presented. Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures to evaluate the effectiveness of initiatives intended to improve profitability, as well as to evaluate the impacts of inflationary pressures and decisions to invest in new initiatives within each of our segments. • Adjusted other income (expense): We adjust the GAAP financial measure to exclude the effect of restructuring programs, mark-to-market adjustments for pension plans (service cost, interest cost, expected return on plan assets, and other net periodic pension costs are not excluded) and certain equity investments, losses resulting from divestitures, and other costs impacting comparability. We excluded the items which we believe may obscure trends in our underlying profitability. By providing this non-GAAP measure, management intends to provide investors with a meaningful, consistent comparison of the Company's other income (expense), excluding the impact of the items noted above, for the periods presented. Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures to evaluate the effectiveness of initiatives intended to improve profitability. • Adjusted effective income tax rate: We adjust the GAAP financial measures to exclude the effect of restructuring programs, costs of the separation transaction, mark-to-market adjustments for pension plans (service cost, interest cost, expected return on plan assets, and other net periodic pension costs are not excluded), commodity contracts, certain equity investments, and certain foreign currency contracts, a gain on interest rate swaps, and other costs impacting comparability . We excluded the items which we believe may obscure trends in our pre-tax income and the related tax effect of those items on our adjusted effective income tax rate, and other impacts to tax expense. By providing this non-GAAP measure, management intends to provide investors with a meaningful, consistent comparison of the Company's effective tax rate, excluding the pre-tax income and tax effect of the items noted above, for the periods presented.  Management uses this non-GAAP measure to monitor the effectiveness of initiatives in place to optimize our global tax rate. 31 • Net debt : Defined as the sum of long-term debt, current maturities of long-term debt and notes payable, less cash and cash equivalents, and marketable securities. With respect to net debt, cash and cash equivalents, and marketable securities are subtracted from the GAAP measure, total debt liabilities, because they could be used to reduce the Company’s debt obligations. Company management and investors use this non-GAAP measure to evaluate changes to the Company's capital structure and credit quality assessment. • Free cash flow : Defined as net cash provided by operating activities reduced by expenditures for property additions. Free cash flow does not represent the residual cash flow available for discretionary expenditures. We use this non-GAAP financial measure of free cash flow to focus management and investors on the amount of cash available for debt repayment, dividend distributions, acquisition opportunities, and share repurchases once all of the Company’s business needs and obligations are met. Additionally, certain performance-based compensation includes a component of this non-GAAP measure. These measures have not been calculated in accordance with GAAP and should not be viewed as a substitute for GAAP reporting measures. Significant items impacting comparability Mark-to-market We recognize mark-to-market adjustments for pension and postretirement benefit plans, commodity contracts, and certain foreign currency contracts as incurred. Actuarial gains/losses for pension plans were recognized in the year they occur. Mark-to-market gains/losses for certain equity investments are recorded based on observable price changes. Changes between contract and market prices for commodities contracts and certain foreign currency contracts result in gains/losses that were recognized in the quarter they occur. We recorded a pre-tax mark-to-market loss of $163 million for 2023, a pre-tax mark-to-market loss of  $369 million for 2022, and a pre-tax mark-to-market gain of $100 million in 2021. Included within the aforementioned totals was a pre-tax mark-to-market loss for pension plans of $146 million for 2023,  a pre-tax mark-to-market loss for pension plans of $229 million for 2022, and a pre-tax mark-to-market gain for pension plans of $98 million for 2021. Separation costs The Company successfully completed the separation of its North America cereal business on October 2, 2023. As a result, we incurred pre-tax charges related to the separation, primarily related to legal and consulting costs, of $60 million for 2023 and $8 million for 2022. Business and portfolio realignment One-time costs related to reorganizations in support of our Deploy for Growth priorities and a reshaped portfolio; investments in enhancing capabilities prioritized by our Deploy for Growth strategy; and completed and prospective divestitures and acquisitions. As a result, we incurred pre-tax charges, primarily related to reorganizations of $2 million in 2023,  $15 million in 2022, and 31 million in 2021. Intangible Asset Impairment During the fourth quarter of 2023, the Company completed its annual impairment testing and determined the fair value of an intangible asset did not exceed its carrying value. As a result, we incurred pre-tax charges related to the impairment of $34 million for 2023. Loss related to divestiture During the third quarter of 2023, the Company completed the sale of the Russian business. As a result of completing the transaction, the Company recorded a non-cash loss on the transaction of approximately $113 million, primarily related to the release of historical currency translation adjustments. Gain related to interest rate swaps During the third quarter of 2022, the Company recognized a pre-tax gain of $18 million in interest expense related to a portion of certain forward-starting interest rate swaps no longer designated as cash flow hedges due to changes in forecasted debt issuance. Valuation allowance During the fourth quarter of 2023, the Company recorded a valuation allowance on deferred tax assets of $21 million in conjunction with the separation of our North America cereal business. 32 Foreign valuation allowance During the third quarter of 2021, the Company determined that certain foreign deferred tax assets were no longer more likely than not to be realized in the future and a full valuation allowance of $20 million was recorded. UK tax rate change During the second quarter of 2021, the Company recorded tax expense of $23 million as a result of tax legislation enacted in the UK in June of 2021, which increased the statutory UK tax rate from 19 percent to 25 percent and required us to re-value our net UK deferred tax liability balance to reflect this higher rate. Foreign currency translation We evaluate the operating results of our business on a currency-neutral basis. We determine currency-neutral operating results by dividing or multiplying, as appropriate, the current period local currency operating results by the currency exchange rates used to translate our financial statements in the comparable prior year period to determine what the current period U.S. dollar operating results would have been if the currency exchange rate had not changed from the comparable prior-year period. Organic net sales exclude the impact of acquisitions, including the foreign currency impact calculated by applying the prior year foreign currency rates to current period results. 33 Financial results For the full year ended December 30, 2023, our reported net sales increased 3.7% versus the prior year on positive price/mix across all regions which more than offset the impacts of price elasticity on volume and adverse foreign currency translation. Growth was led by Snacks across all four regions and consolidated net sales grew in cereal and noodles and other. Organic net sales increased 8.3% from the prior year after excluding the impact of foreign currency. Reported operating profit increased 24.3% versus the prior year due primarily to less unfavorable mark-to-market impacts, higher net sales, and recovery of gross margins, partially offset by loss on divestiture and higher costs related to the separation of our North America cereal business . Currency-neutral adjusted operating profit increased 18.4%, after excluding the impact of mark-to-market, separation costs, intangible asset impairment, and foreign currency. Reported diluted EPS of $2.25 for the year increased 6.1% compared to the prior year EPS of $2.12 due primarily to less unfavorable mark-to-market impacts partially offset by higher costs related to the separation of our North America cereal business. Currency-neutral adjusted diluted EPS of $3.18 for the year increased 7.4% compared to prior year EPS of $2.96, after excluding the impact of significant items impacting comparability. Reconciliation of certain non-GAAP Financial Measures Note: Tables may not foot due to rounding. For more information on reconciling items in the table above, please refer to the Significant items impacting comparability section. * Represents the estimated income tax effect on the reconciling items, using weighted-average statutory tax rates, depending upon the applicable jurisdiction. 34 Net sales and operating profit 2023 compared to 2022 The following tables provide an analysis of net sales and operating profit performance for 2023 versus 2022: Note: Tables may not foot due to rounding. For more information on reconciling items in the table above, please refer to the Significant items impacting comparability section. 35 Note: Tables may not foot due to rounding. For more information on reconciling items in the table above, please refer to the Significant items impacting comparability section. North America Reported net sales increased 3.8% versus the prior year as a result of price/mix growth that more than offset rising price elasticity. Organic net sales increased 4.0% after excluding the impact of foreign currency. North America snacks net sales increased 4.6% on price/mix growth in crackers, salty snacks, and portable wholesome snacks. 36 North America frozen foods net sales decreased 0.4%, as rising price elasticities offset price/mix growth. North America operating profit increased 12.8% compared to the prior year due to higher net sales, recovery of gross margin, and reimbursement for transition services provided to WK Kellogg Co.  These impacts were partially offset by a $34 million impairment charge taken on an intangible asset during the fourth quarter. Currency-neutral adjusted operating profit increased 18.7%, after excluding the impact of separation costs, intangible asset impairment, and business and portfolio realignment. Europe Reported net sales increased 8.3% due primarily to favorable price/mix, momentum in snacks, and favorable foreign currency translation.  Organic net sales increased 9.2% after excluding the impact of the divestiture of our business in Russia and foreign currency. Snacks net sales growth was led by sustained momentum in Pringles , with growth across key markets. Cereal net sales declined slightly on a reported basis primarily due to unfavorable foreign currency. Reported operating profit increased 8.5% due primarily to higher net sales and favorable foreign currency.  Currency-neutral adjusted operating profit increased 5.9% after excluding the impact of foreign currency. Latin America Reported net sales increased 16.3% driven by strong price/mix growth and favorable foreign currency translation, with growth in snacks and cereal. Organic net sales increased 8.4%, after excluding the impact of foreign currency. Snacks net sales growth was led by double-digit consumption growth in key markets for salty snacks, including Mexico and Brazil. Cereal net sales increased due to share gains in key markets, notably Mexico. Reported operating profit increased 12.0% due to higher net sales and favorable foreign currency translation. Currency-neutral adjusted operating profit increased 8.0% after excluding the impact of mark-to-market and foreign currency. AMEA Reported net sales decreased 5.1% driven by unfavorable foreign currency primarily due to the devaluation of the Nigerian Naira, which more than offset growth in volume and price/mix.  Organic net sales increased 16.9% after excluding foreign currency. 37 Snacks net sales increased due primarily to strong growth in Pringles across the region. Cereal net sales declined on a reported basis, as unfavorable foreign currency more than offset higher price/mix. Noodles and other net sales decreased due to unfavorable foreign currency that more than offset higher volume and price/mix growth. Reported operating profit increased 7.1% due primarily to the recovery of gross margins partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency. Currency-neutral adjusted operating profit increased 19.9%, after excluding the impact of foreign currency. Corporate Reported operating profit increased significantly versus the prior year due primarily to less unfavorable mark-to-market impacts.  Currency-neutral adjusted operating profit increased $1 million from the prior year after excluding the impact of mark-to-market and separation costs. 38 Net sales and operating profit 2022 compared to 2021 The following tables provide an analysis of net sales and operating profit performance for 2022 versus 2021: Note: Tables may not foot due to rounding. For more information on reconciling items in the table above, please refer to the Significant items impacting comparability section. 39 Note: Tables may not foot due to rounding. For more information on reconciling items in the table above, please refer to the Significant items impacting comparability section. North America Reported net sales increased 9.6% versus the prior year as a result of revenue growth management actions and sustained momentum in snacks. Organic net sales increased 9.8% after excluding the impact of foreign currency. North America snacks net sales increased 11.9% supported by consumption dollar growth in each of our three major categories, crackers, salty snacks, and portable wholesome snacks. North America frozen foods net sales decreased 1.1% due primarily to supply constraints. 40 North America operating profit decreased 2.7% compared to the prior year due primarily to accelerating input cost inflation. Currency-neutral adjusted operating profit decreased 2.3%, after excluding the impact of business and portfolio realignment and separation costs. Europe Reported net sales decreased 3.6% reflecting the impact of unfavorable foreign currency, despite favorable price/mix and continued growth in snacks. Organic net sales increased 6.6% after excluding the impact of foreign currency. Cereal net sales declined on a reported basis primarily due to unfavorable foreign currency. Snacks net sales growth was led by sustained momentum in Pringles , driven by innovation, effective advertising, and successful consumer promotions. Reported operating profit decreased 5.9% due primarily to unfavorable foreign currency and high cost inflation. Currency-neutral adjusted operating profit increased 3.3% after excluding the impact of foreign currency and charges related to business and portfolio realignment. Latin America Reported net sales increased 13.2% driven by strong price/mix growth and modestly favorable foreign currency translation, with growth in snacks and cereal. Organic net sales increased 12.4%, after excluding the impact of foreign currency. Snacks net sales growth was led by sustained consumption growth and share gains in key markets for salty snacks. Cereal net sales increased due to share gains in key markets, including Mexico and Brazil. Reported operating profit increased 16.3% due to higher net sales and favorable foreign currency translation partially offset by input cost inflation. Currency-neutral adjusted operating profit increased 16.2% after excluding the impact of mark-to-market and foreign currency. AMEA Reported net sales increased 12.2% driven by favorable price/mix partially offset by unfavorable foreign currency. Organic net sales also increased 21.0% after excluding foreign currency. 41 Snacks net sales increased due primarily to strong growth in Pringles across the region. Cereal net sales declined on a reported basis due to unfavorable foreign currency. Noodles and other net sales increased lead by strong growth from Multipro as well as our Kellogg's branded noodles business. Reported operating profit increased 2.7% due primarily to higher net sales more than offsetting high cost inflation and unfavorable foreign currency. Currency-neutral adjusted operating profit increased 10.9%, after excluding the impact of foreign currency. Corporate Reported operating profit decreased significantly versus the prior year due primarily to unfavorable mark-to-market impacts. Currency-neutral adjusted operating profit decreased $16 million from the prior year after excluding the impact of mark-to-market. Margin performance 2023 versus 2022 gross margin performance was as follows: Note: Tables may not foot due to rounding. For information on the reconciling items in the table above, please refer to the Significant items impacting comparability section. (a) Reported gross margin as a percentage of net sales. Gross margin is equal to net sales less cost of goods sold. Reported gross margin increased 250 basis points versus the prior year due primarily to less unfavorable mark-to-market impacts, higher service levels, and revenue growth management initiatives that were partially offset by high input cost inflation. Currency-neutral adjusted gross margin increased 60 basis points compared to 2022. 42 Our 2023 and 2022 currency-neutral adjusted gross profit  is reconciled to the most comparable U.S. GAAP measures as follows: Note: Tables may not foot due to rounding. For more information on the reconciling items in the table above, please refer to the Significant items impacting comparability section. (a) Gross profit is equal to net sales less cost of goods sold. 2022 versus 2021 gross margin performance was as follows: Note: Tables may not foot due to rounding. For information on the reconciling items in the table above, please refer to the Significant items impacting comparability section. (a) Reported gross margin as a percentage of net sales. Gross margin is equal to net sales less cost of goods sold. Reported gross margin decreased 240 basis points versus the prior year as the impact of productivity improvements and revenue growth management initiatives was more than offset by cost inflation, inefficiencies from worldwide supply bottlenecks and shortages, a mix shift towards emerging markets and unfavorable mark-to-market. Currency-neutral adjusted gross margin decreased 150 basis points compared to 2021. Our 2022 and 2021 currency-neutral adjusted gross profit is reconciled to the most comparable U.S. GAAP measures as follows: Note: Tables may not foot due to rounding. For more information on the reconciling items in the table above, please refer to the Significant items impacting comparability section. (a) Gross profit is equal to net sales less cost of goods sold. Foreign currency translation The reporting currency for our financial statements is the U.S. dollar. Certain of our assets, liabilities, expenses and revenues are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, primarily in the euro, British pound, Mexican peso, Australian dollar, Canadian dollar, Brazilian Real, Nigerian Naira, Russian ruble, Polish zloty, and Egyptian pound. To prepare our consolidated financial statements, we must translate those assets, liabilities, expenses and revenues into U.S. dollars at the applicable exchange rates. As a result, increases and decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar against these other currencies will affect the amount of these items in our consolidated financial statements, even if their value has not changed in their original currency. This could have significant impact on our results if such increase or decrease in the value of the U.S. dollar is substantial. 43 Interest expense and interest income Interest expense was $303 million and $201 million for the years ended December 30, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively.  The increase from the prior year is due primarily to higher interest rates on commercial paper and floating rate debt versus the prior year as well as an $18 million gain in the prior year related to a portion of certain forward-starting interest rate swaps no longer designated as cash flow hedges due to changes in forecasted debt issuance. Interest income (recorded in other income (expense), net) was $101 million and $33 million for the years ended December 30, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively. The increase from the prior year is due to higher interest rates on cash deposits. Income taxes Our reported effective tax rate for 2023 and 2022 was 24.8% and 20.0%, respectively. The higher effective tax rate for the year ended December 30, 2023, compared to the prior year, was due primarily to a valuation allowance recorded in the fourth quarter of 2023 in conjunction with the separation of our North America cereal business. Adjusted effective tax rates for 2023 and 2022 were 20.7% and 20.8%, respectively. The following table provides a reconciliation of reported to adjusted income taxes and effective income tax rate for 2023 and 2022. Note: Tables may not foot due to rounding. For more information on reconciling items in the table above, please refer to the Significant items impacting comparability section. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could impact the expected effective income tax rate as it is dependent upon U.S. dollar earnings of foreign subsidiaries doing business in various countries with differing statutory rates. Additionally, the rate could be impacted by tax legislation and if pending uncertain tax matters, including tax positions that could be affected by planning initiatives, are resolved more or less favorably than we currently expect. 44 LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES At this time we anticipate current cash and marketable security balances, operating cash flows, together with our credit facilities and other financing sources including commercial paper, credit and bond markets, will be adequate to meet our operating, investing and financing needs. We expect cash provided by operating activities of $1.7 billion and capital expenditures of approximately $700 million in 2024.  We currently have $2.5 billion of unused revolving credit agreements, including $1.5 billion effective through 2026 and $1.0 billion effective through December 2024, as well as continued access to the commercial paper markets.  We are currently in compliance with all debt covenants and do not have material uncertainty about our ability to maintain compliance in future periods. We continue to utilize available capacity within the Monetization Programs to maintain financial flexibility without negatively impacting working capital. Our principal source of liquidity is operating cash flows supplemented by borrowings for major acquisitions and other significant transactions. Our cash-generating capability is one of our fundamental strengths and provides us with substantial financial flexibility in meeting operating and investing needs. We have historically reported negative working capital primarily as the result of our focus to improve core working capital by reducing our levels of trade receivables and inventory while establishing competitive market-based terms with suppliers. The impacts of the extended customer terms programs and of the monetization programs are included in our calculation of core working capital and are largely offsetting. These programs are all part of our ongoing working capital management. We periodically monitor our supplier payment terms to assess whether our terms are competitive and in line with local market terms. To the extent that such assessment indicates that our supplier payment terms are not aligned with local market terms, we may seek to adjust our terms, including extending or shortening our payment due dates as appropriate. Supplier payment term modifications did not have a material impact on our cash flows during 2023, and are not expected to have a material impact in 2024. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness which results in current maturities of long-term debt and notes payable which can have a significant impact on working capital as a result of the timing of these required payments. These factors, coupled with the use of our ongoing cash flows from operations to service our debt obligations, pay dividends, fund acquisition opportunities, and repurchase our common stock, reduce our working capital amounts. We had negative working capital of $1.7 billion and $2.2 billion as of December 30, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively. We believe that our operating cash flows, together with our credit facilities and other available debt financing, including commercial paper, will be adequate to meet our operating, investing and financing needs in the foreseeable future. However, there can be no assurance that volatility and/or disruption in the global capital and credit markets will not impair our ability to access these markets on terms acceptable to us, or at all. The following table sets forth a summary of our cash flows: Operating activities The principal source of our operating cash flows is net earnings, primarily cash receipts from the sale of our products, net of costs to manufacture and market our products. Net cash provided by our operating activities for 2023 totaled $1,645 million compared to $1,651 million in the prior year.  Net sales increase as well as profit margin recovery allowed us to generate cash to offset incremental cash costs related to separation activities as well as the absence of North America cereal's cash flow in the fourth quarter.  This resulted in similar year-over-year net cash provided by operating activities. 45 Our total pension and postretirement benefit plan funding amounted to $42 million and $23 million for the years ended December 30, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively. The Pension Protection Act (PPA), and subsequent regulations, determines defined benefit plan minimum funding requirements in the United States. We believe that we will not be required to make any contributions under PPA requirements until 2024 or beyond. Our projections concerning timing of PPA funding requirements are subject to change primarily based on general market conditions affecting trust asset performance, future discount rates based on average yields of high quality corporate bonds and our decisions regarding certain elective provisions of the PPA. We currently project that we will make total U.S. and foreign benefit plan contributions in 2024 of approximately $64 million. Actual 2024 contributions could be different from our current projections, as influenced by our decision to undertake discretionary funding of our benefit trusts versus other competing investment priorities, future changes in government requirements, trust asset performance, renewals of union contracts, or higher-than-expected health care claims cost experience. We measure free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities reduced by expenditures for property additions. We use this non-GAAP financial measure of free cash flow to focus management and investors on the amount of cash available over time for debt repayment, dividend distributions, acquisition opportunities, and share repurchases. Our free cash flow metric is reconciled to the most comparable GAAP measure, as follows: Investing activities Our net cash used in investing activities for 2023 totaled $562 million compared to $448 million in 2022 due primarily to higher capital expenditures in preparation of the separation transaction as well as phasing of capital expenditures over the two preceding years. Capital spending in 2023 included investments in our supply chain infrastructure, including manufacturing capacity expansions in multiple markets as well as investments in conjunction with the separation transaction. Cash paid for additions to properties as a percentage of net sales was 5.1% and 3.9% in 2023 and 2022, respectively. Financing activities Our net cash used in financing activities totaled $1,110 million compared to $1,081 million during the prior year.  During 2023, the net distribution received from WK Kellogg Co and proceeds from the $400 million ten-year U.S. Dollar Notes issuance were utilized to repay commercial paper and $550 million, seven-year U.S. Dollar Notes upon maturity. Total debt was $5.9 billion and $6.6 billion at year-end 2023 and 2022, respectively. The following table reflects net debt amounts: 46 In November 2023, we repaid $550 million, seven-year 2.65% U.S. Dollar Notes due 2023, upon maturity. During the first quarter of 2023, the Company issued $400 million of ten-year 5.25% Notes due 2033, resulting in net proceeds after discount and underwriting commissions of $396 million. The proceeds from these notes were used for general corporate purposes, including the payment of offering related fees and expenses, repayment of the $210 million 2.75% Notes when they matured on March 1, 2023, and repayment of a portion of commercial paper borrowings. The Notes contain customary covenants that limit the ability of the Company and its restricted subsidiaries (as defined) to incur certain liens or enter into certain sale and lease-back transactions, as well as a change of control provision. In November 2022, we repaid €600 million, five-year 0.80% Euro Notes due 2022, upon maturity. We paid quarterly dividends to shareholders totaling $2.34 per share in 2023 versus $2.34 per share in 2022.  On February 16, 2024, the Board of Directors declared a dividend of $.56 per common share, payable on March 15, 2024 to shareholders of record at the close of business on March 1, 2024. We entered into an unsecured Five-Year Credit Agreement in December 2021, allowing us to borrow, on a revolving credit basis, up to $1.5 billion and expiring in December 2026. In December 2023, we entered into an unsecured 364-Day Credit Agreement to borrow, on a revolving credit basis, up to $1.0 billion at any time outstanding, to replace the $1.0 billion 364-day facility that was set to expire in December 2023. The Five-Year and 364 Day Credit Agreements which had no outstanding borrowings as December 30, 2023, contain customary covenants and warranties, including specified restrictions on indebtedness, liens and a specified interest expense coverage ratio. If an event of default occurs, then, to the extent permitted, the administrative agents may terminate the commitments under the credit facilities, accelerate any outstanding loans under the agreements, and demand the deposit of cash collateral equal to the lender's letter of credit exposure plus interest. The Company was in compliance with all financial covenants contained in these agreements at December 30, 2023. Our Notes contain customary covenants that limit the ability of the Company and its restricted subsidiaries (as defined) to incur certain liens or enter into certain sale and lease-back transactions and also contain a change of control provision. There are no significant restrictions on the payment of dividends. We were in compliance with all covenants as of December 30, 2023. The Notes do not contain acceleration of maturity clauses that are dependent on credit ratings. A change in our credit ratings could limit our access to the U.S. short-term debt market and/or increase the cost of refinancing long-term debt in the future. However, even under these circumstances, we would continue to have access to our 364-Day Credit Facility, which expires in December 2024, as well as our Five-Year Credit Agreement, which expires in December 2026. This source of liquidity is unused and available on an unsecured basis, although we do not currently plan to use it. We monitor the financial strength of our third-party financial institutions, including those that hold our cash and cash equivalents as well as those who serve as counterparties to our credit facilities, our derivative financial instruments, and other arrangements. We continue to believe that we will be able to meet our interest and principal repayment obligations and maintain our debt covenants for the foreseeable future, while still meeting our operational needs, including the pursuit of select acquisitions. This will be accomplished through our strong cash flow, our short-term borrowings, and our maintenance of credit facilities on a global basis. Monetization and Accounts Payable Tracking Systems We have a program in which customers could extend their payment terms in exchange for the elimination of early payment discounts (Extended Terms Program). In order to mitigate the net working capital impact of the Extended Terms Program for discrete customers, we entered into agreements to sell, on a revolving basis, certain trade accounts receivable balances to third party financial institutions (Monetization Programs). Transfers under the Monetization Programs are accounted for as sales of receivables resulting in the receivables being de-recognized from our Consolidated Balance Sheet. The Monetization Programs provide for the continuing sale of certain 47 receivables on a revolving basis until terminated by either party; however the maximum funding from receivables that may be sold at any time is currently $975 million, but may be increased or decreased as customers move in or out of the Extended Terms Program and as additional financial institutions move in or out of the Monetization Programs. Accounts receivable sold of $697 million and $609 million remained outstanding under this arrangement as of December 30, 2023 and December 31, 2022, respectively. The Monetization Programs are designed to directly offset the impact the Extended Terms Program would have on the days-sales-outstanding (DSO) metric that is critical to the effective management of the Company's accounts receivable balance and overall working capital. Current DSO levels within North America are consistent with DSO levels prior to the execution of the Extended Term Program and Monetization Programs. Refer to Note 3 within Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information related to the sale of accounts receivable. We have agreements with third parties to provide accounts payable tracking systems which facilitate participating suppliers’ ability to monitor and, if elected at their discretion, make offers to sell one or more of our payment obligations prior to their scheduled due dates at a discounted price to participating financial institutions. We have no economic interest in the sale of these suppliers’ receivables and no direct financial relationship with the financial institutions concerning these services. Our obligations to our suppliers, including amounts due and scheduled payment dates, are not impacted by suppliers’ decisions to sell amounts under the arrangements. However, our right to offset balances due from suppliers against payment obligations is restricted by the agreements for those payment obligations that have been sold by suppliers. Refer to Note 1 within Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information related to accounts payable. If financial institutions were to terminate their participation in the Monetization Programs and we are not able to modify related customer payment terms, working capital could be negatively impacted. Additionally, working capital could be negatively impacted if we shorten our supplier payment terms as a result of supplier negotiations. For suppliers participating in the Accounts Payable Tracking Systems, financial institutions may terminate their participation or we could experience a downgrade in our credit rating that could result in higher costs to suppliers. If working capital is negatively impacted as a result of these events and we were unable to secure alternative programs, we may have to utilize our various financing arrangements for short-term liquidity or increase our long-term borrowings. CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS We have material contractual obligations that arise in the normal course of business and we believe cash flow from operations will be adequate to meet our liquidity and capital needs for at least the next 12 months. In addition to principal and interest payments on our outstanding long-term debt and notes payable balances, our contractual obligations primarily consist of lease payments, income taxes, pension and postretirement benefits and unconditional purchase obligations. A summary of our operating and finance lease obligations as of December 30, 2023 can be found in Note 8 “Leases and Other Commitments”, to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this report. A summary of principal payments for long-term debt as of December 30, 2023 can be found in Note 9 “Debt”, to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this report. Interest payments will be approximately $142 million per year from 2024 through 2028 and approximately $646 million in total from 2029 through the last debt maturity date. A summary of our pension and postretirement benefit obligations as of December 30, 2023 can be found in Notes 11 “Pension Benefits” and Note 12 “Nonpension Postretirement and Postemployment Benefits”, to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this report. See Note 14 “Income Taxes”, to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in this report for discussion of uncertain tax positions. 48 Our unconditional purchase obligations consist primarily of fixed commitments for raw materials to be utilized in the normal course of business and for marketing, advertising and other services.  As of December 30, 2023, unconditional purchase obligations totaled approximately $1.5 billion.  Approximately $1.3 billion of these unconditional purchase obligations will be settled in the ordinary course of business in the next 12 months. As of December 30, 2023, we did not have any material off-balance sheet arrangements. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES Promotional expenditures Our promotional activities are conducted either through the retail trade or directly with consumers and include activities such as in-store displays and events, feature price discounts, consumer coupons, contests and loyalty programs. The costs of these activities are generally recognized at the time the related revenue is recorded, which normally precedes the actual cash expenditure. The recognition of these costs therefore requires management judgment regarding the volume of promotional offers that will be redeemed by either the retail trade or consumer. These estimates are made using various techniques including historical data on performance of similar promotional programs. Differences between estimated expense and actual redemptions are normally immaterial and recognized as a change in management estimate in a subsequent period. On a full-year basis, these subsequent period adjustments represent less than 1% of our company’s net sales. However, our company’s total promotional expenditures (including amounts classified as a revenue reduction) are significant, so it is likely our results would be materially different if different assumptions or conditions were to prevail. Goodwill and other intangible assets We review our operating segment and reporting unit structure annually or as significant changes in the organization occur and assess goodwill impairment risk throughout the year by performing a qualitative review of entity-specific, industry, market and general economic factors affecting our reporting units with goodwill. Annually during the fourth quarter, in conjunction with our annual budgeting process, we may perform qualitative testing, or depending on factors such as prior-year test results, current year developments, current risk evaluations and other practical considerations, we may instead perform a quantitative impairment test. In our quantitative testing, we compare a reporting unit’s estimated fair value with its carrying value. The reporting unit’s fair value is estimated using a combination of a market multiples and discounted cash flow methodologies. The market multiples approach is based on either sales or earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization for companies that are comparable to our reporting units. The discounted cash flow approach incorporates assumptions surrounding planned growth rates, market-based discount rates and estimates of residual value. The assumptions used for the impairment test are consistent with those utilized by a market participant performing similar valuations for our reporting units.  These estimates are made using various inputs including historical data, current and anticipated market conditions, management plans, and market comparables. If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, we consider the reporting unit impaired and reduce its carrying value of goodwill such that the reporting unit’s new carrying value is the estimated fair value. Similarly, we assess indefinite-life intangible assets impairment risk throughout the year by performing a qualitative review and assessing events and circumstances that could affect the fair value or carrying value of these intangible assets. Annually during the fourth quarter, in conjunction with our annual budgeting process, we may perform qualitative testing, or depending on factors such as prior-year test results, current year developments, current risk evaluations and other practical considerations, we may instead perform a quantitative impairment test. In the quantitative testing, we compare an intangible asset’s estimated fair value with its carrying value with the intangible asset’s fair value being determined using estimates of future cash flows to be generated from that asset based on estimates of future sales, as well as assumptions surrounding earnings growth rates, royalty rates and discount rates consistent with rates used by market participants. These estimates are made using various inputs including historical data, current and anticipated market conditions, management plans, and market comparables.  If the carrying value of the asset exceeds its fair value, we consider the asset impaired and reduce its carrying value to the estimated fair value. We also evaluate the useful life over which a non-goodwill intangible asset with a finite life is expected to contribute directly or indirectly to our cash flows. Reaching a determination on useful life requires significant judgments and assumptions regarding the future effects of obsolescence, demand, competition, other economic factors (such as the stability of the industry, known technological advances, legislative action that results in an uncertain or changing regulatory environment, and expected changes in distribution channels), the level of required maintenance expenditures, and the expected lives of other related groups of assets. 49 At December 30, 2023, goodwill and other intangible assets amounted to $7.0 billion, consisting primarily of goodwill and brands. Within this total, approximately $1.8 billion of non-goodwill intangible assets were classified as indefinite-lived, including $1.6 billion related to trademarks, comprised principally of Pringles and cracker-related trademarks. The majority of all goodwill and other intangible assets are recorded in our North America operating segment. The Company's annual reporting unit goodwill impairment testing, performed through the fourth quarter of 2023, consisted of quantitative testing due primarily to the passage of time since the last quantitative test. No heightened risk or qualitative indicators of impairment of any reporting units was identified. The Company's annual intangible asset impairment testing was also performed through the fourth quarter of 2023 consisting of qualitative or quantitative testing for all significant intangible assets. As a result of the annual impairment testing the Company recognized a non-cash impairment of $34 million related to a brand in the North America operating segment that relates to snack category products. In performing the quantitative test of this brand, fair value was determined using a relief from royalty valuation method that includes estimates, and significant assumptions, of future cash flows to be generated from that asset based on estimates of future sales, royalty rate and discount rate consistent with rates used by market participants. After the impairment, the carrying value of this brand was $150 million at December 30, 2023. No other heightened risk or qualitative indicators of impairment of any other intangible assets was identified. Fair value determinations used in the annual testing require considerable judgment and are sensitive to changes in underlying assumptions, estimates, and market factors. Estimating the fair value of individual reporting units or indefinite-lived intangible assets requires making assumptions and estimates regarding the Company’s future plans, as well as industry, economic, and regulatory conditions. If current expectations of future growth rates and margins are not met, if market factors outside of the Company’s control, such as market comparables, rising discount rates, income tax rates, foreign currency exchange rate volatility, or inflation, change, or if management’s expectations or plans otherwise change, then one or more of our reporting units or indefinite-lived assets might become impaired in the future. Retirement benefits Our company sponsors a number of U.S. and foreign defined benefit employee pension plans and also provides retiree health care and other welfare benefits in the United States and Canada. Plan funding strategies are influenced by tax regulations and asset return performance. A majority of plan assets are invested in a globally diversified portfolio of debt and equity securities with smaller holdings of other investments. We recognize the cost of benefits provided during retirement over the employees’ active working life to determine the obligations and expense related to our retiree benefit plans. Inherent in this concept is the requirement to use various actuarial assumptions to predict and measure costs and obligations many years prior to the settlement date. Major actuarial assumptions that require significant management judgment and have a material impact on the measurement of our consolidated benefits expense and accumulated obligation include the long-term rates of return on plan assets, the health care cost trend rates, the mortality table and improvement scale, and the interest rates used to discount the obligations for our major plans, which cover employees in the United States, United Kingdom and Canada. Our expense recognition policy for pension and nonpension postretirement benefits is to immediately recognize actuarial gains and losses in our results in the year in which they occur. Actuarial gains and losses are recognized annually as of our measurement date, which is our fiscal year-end, or when remeasurement is otherwise required under generally accepted accounting principles. Additionally, for purposes of calculating the expected return on plan assets related to pension and nonpension postretirement benefits we use the fair value of plan assets. To conduct our annual review of the long-term rate of return on plan assets, we model expected returns over a 20-year investment horizon with respect to the specific investment mix of each of our major plans. The return assumptions used reflect a combination of rigorous historical performance analysis and forward-looking views of the financial markets including consideration of current yields on long-term bonds, price-earnings ratios of the major stock market indices, and long-term inflation. Our U.S. plan model, corresponding to approximately 56% of our trust assets globally, currently incorporates a long-term inflation assumption of 2.5% and a 2023 weighted-average active management premium of 0.84% for the pension plans and 0.93% for the retiree medical plan, (net of fees) validated by historical analysis and future return expectations. Although we review our expected long-term rates of return annually, our benefit trust investment performance for one particular year does not, by itself, significantly influence 50 our evaluation. Our expected rates of return have generally not been revised, provided these rates continue to fall within a “more likely than not” corridor of between the 25th and 75th percentile of expected long-term returns, as determined by our modeling process. Because of a change in the asset mixes between the US pension and retiree medical trusts, separate rate of return assumptions were used in 2023. Our assumed rate of return for U.S. plans in 2023 was 7.75% for the pension plans and 8.00% for the retiree medical plan, which equated to approximately the 55th and 53rd percentile expectations of our model, respectively. Similar methods are used for various foreign plans with invested assets, reflecting local economic conditions. Foreign trust investments represent approximately 44% of our global benefit plan assets. Based on consolidated benefit plan assets at December 30, 2023, a 100 basis point increase or decrease in the assumed rate of return would correspondingly decrease or increase 2024 benefits expense by approximately $23 million. For the years ended December 30, 2023 and December 31, 2022, our actual return on plan assets was more than the recognized assumed return by $52 million and less than the recognized by $1.5 billion, respectively. Pension assets include a level 3 investment comprising 32% of total plan assets as of December 30, 2023.  The investment, a buy-in annuity contract, is valued based on the estimated cost to enter an equivalent contract at the balance sheet date. Our initial health care cost trend rate is reviewed annually and adjusted as necessary to remain consistent with recent historical experience and our expectations regarding short-term future trends. Our initial trend rate for 2024 of 6.50% reflects the recognition of increased short-term inflation and the health care provisions of the Inflation Reduction Act. Our initial rate remains flat through 2025 before trending downward by 0.25% per year, until the ultimate trend rate of 4.5% is reached. The ultimate trend rate is adjusted annually, as necessary, to approximate the current economic view on the rate of long-term inflation plus an appropriate health care cost premium. Any arising health care claims cost-related experience gain or loss is recognized in the year in which they occur. The experience gain arising from recognition of 2023 claims experience was approximately $4 million. Assumed mortality rates of plan participants are a critical estimate in measuring the expected payments a participant will receive over their lifetime and the amount of expense we recognize. In 2019, the Society of Actuaries (SOA) published updated mortality tables and an updated improvement scale. In 2021, the SOA released an improvement scale that incorporated an additional year of data. In 2022 and 2023, the SOA did not release an updated improvement scale. In determining the appropriate mortality assumptions as of 2023 fiscal year-end, we used the 2019 SOA tables with collar adjustments based on Kellanova’s current population, consistent with the prior year. In addition, our assumption for future mortality improvement continues to be based on mortality information available from the Social Security Administration and other sources, consistent with the prior year and in line with our expectations for future experience. There were no changes to the year-end pension and postretirement benefit obligations due to mortality assumption changes. To conduct our annual review of discount rates, we selected the discount rate based on a cash-flow matching analysis using Willis Towers Watson’s proprietary RATE:Link tool and projections of the future benefit payments constituting the projected benefit obligation for the plans. RATE:Link establishes the uniform discount rate that produces the same present value of the estimated future benefit payments, as is generated by discounting each year’s benefit payments by a spot rate applicable to that year. The spot rates used in this process are derived from a yield curve created from yields on the 40th to 90th percentile of U.S. high quality bonds. A similar methodology is applied in Canada and Europe.  The projected benefit obligation for the plan in the United Kingdom is set equal to the fair value of the buy-in annuity contracts. We use a December 31 measurement date for our defined benefit plans. Accordingly, we select yield curves to measure our benefit obligations that are consistent with market indices during December of each year. Based on consolidated obligations at December 30, 2023, a 25 basis point decline in the yield curve used for benefit plan measurement purposes would decrease 2024 benefits expense by approximately $2 million and would result in an immediate loss recognition of $174 million. All obligation-related actuarial gains and losses are recognized immediately in the year in which they occur. Despite the previously-described policies for selecting major actuarial assumptions, we periodically experience material actuarial gains or losses due to differences between assumed and actual experience and due to changing economic conditions. During 2023, we recognized a net actuarial loss of approximately $142 million compared to a net actuarial loss of approximately $228 million in 2022. The total net loss recognized in 2023 was driven by a loss of approximately $184 million from assumption changes, including decreases in the discount rate and from the UK 51 buy-in of annuities for existing scheme participants, and a loss of approximately $10 million from plan experience, partially offset by a gain of approximately $52 million from higher than expected asset returns. During 2023, we made contributions in the amount of $25 million to Kellanova’s global tax-qualified pension programs.  This amount was mostly non-discretionary.  Additionally, we contributed $10 million to our retiree medical programs. Income taxes Our consolidated effective income tax rate is influenced by tax planning opportunities available to us in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. The calculation of our income tax provision and deferred income tax assets and liabilities is complex and requires the use of estimates and judgment. We recognize tax benefits associated with uncertain tax positions when, in our judgment, it is more likely than not that the positions will be sustained upon examination by a taxing authority. For tax positions that meet the more likely than not recognition threshold, we initially and subsequently measure the tax benefits as the largest amount that we judge to have a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement. Our liability associated with unrecognized tax benefits is adjusted periodically due to changing circumstances, such as the progress of tax audits, new or emerging legislation and tax planning. The tax position will be de-recognized when it is no longer more likely than not of being sustained. Significant adjustments to our liability for unrecognized tax benefits impacting our effective tax rate are separately presented in the rate reconciliation table of Note 14 within Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Management monitors the Company’s ability to utilize certain future tax deductions, operating losses and tax credit carryforwards, prior to expiration as well as the reinvestment assertion regarding our undistributed foreign earnings. Changes resulting from management’s assessment will result in impacts to deferred tax assets and the corresponding impacts on the effective income tax rate. Valuation allowances were recorded to reduce deferred tax assets to an amount that will, more likely than not, be realized in the future. FUTURE OUTLOOK The Company affirmed the financial guidance for 2024 that it had first provided in August, 2023, at its Day@K investor event. The Company is projecting: • Organic-basis net sales growth of approximately 3% or better against a recast 2023. • Adjusted-basis operating profit of approximately $1,850-1,900 million. • Adjusted-basis earnings per share of approximately $3.55-3.65. • Net cash provided by operating activities of approximately $1.7 billion, with capital expenditure of about $0.7 billion, which is elevated this year for the expansion of Pringles capacity in emerging markets.  As a result, free cash flow is expected to be approximately $1.0 billion. Reconciliation of non-GAAP guidance measures We are unable to reasonably estimate the potential full-year financial impact of mark-to-market adjustments because these impacts are dependent on future changes in market conditions (interest rates, return on assets, and commodity prices).  Similarly, because of volatility in foreign exchange rates and shifts in country mix of our international earnings, we are unable to reasonably estimate the potential full-year financial impact of foreign currency translation. The adjusted-basis dollar range guidance shown below incorporates an impact from foreign currency based solely on prevailing exchange rates as of December 30, 2023. As a result, these impacts are not included in the guidance provided. Therefore, we are unable to provide a full reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures used in our guidance without unreasonable effort as certain information necessary to calculate such measure on a GAAP basis is unavailable, dependent on future events outside of our control and cannot be predicted without unreasonable efforts by the Company. 52 See the table below that outlines the projected impact of certain other items that are excluded from non-GAAP guidance for 2024: * 2024 full year guidance for net sales, operating profit, and earnings per share are provided on a non-GAAP basis only because certain information necessary to calculate such measures on a GAAP basis is unavailable, dependent on future events outside of our control and cannot be predicted without unreasonable efforts by the Company. These items for 2024 include impacts of mark-to-market adjustments for pension plans (service cost, interest cost, expected return on plan assets, and other net periodic pension costs are not excluded), commodity contracts, certain equity investments, and certain foreign currency contracts. The Company is providing quantification of known adjustment items where available. ** Represents the estimated income tax effect on the reconciling items, using weighted-average statutory tax rates, depending upon the applicable jurisdiction.