********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Risks, Uncertainties and Other Factors That May Affect Future Results Risks Related to Our Business Uncertainty in general economic conditions may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Our business is sensitive to negative changes in general economic conditions, both inside and outside the United States. Global and regional economic uncertainty, inflation and potential recession has and may continue to impact our business, resulting in: • increased cost to manufacture products or deliver solutions; • reduced customer purchasing power; • reduced demand for our solutions and services and reduced, delayed or canceled orders; • increased risk of excess and obsolete inventory; • increased price pressure on our solutions and services; and • greater risk of impairment to the value, and a detriment to the liquidity, of our future investment portfolio. In addition, global and regional macroeconomic developments, such as increased unemployment, uncertainty related to future economic activity, volatility in financial markets, reduced access to credit, changing interest rates, volatility in capital markets, decreased liquidity, uncertain or destabilizing national elections and reactions to national election results, political violence and unrest in the U.S., the U.K., Europe, and Asia, and negative changes or volatility in general economic conditions in the U.S., Europe, and Asia could negatively affect our ability to conduct business in those territories. Financial difficulties experienced by our suppliers and customers due to economic volatility could result in product delays, reduced purchasing power, delays in payment or inability to pay us, and inventory issues. Economic risks related to accounts receivable could result in delays in collection and greater bad debt expense. Economic, political, and other risks associated with international sales and operations could adversely affect our results of operations. Because we operate our businesses and sell our solutions worldwide, our businesses are subject to risks associated with doing business internationally. We anticipate that revenue from international operations will continue to represent a majority of our total revenue. However, there can be no assurances that our international sales will continue at existing levels or grow in accordance with our effort to increase foreign market penetration. In addition, many of our employees, contract manufacturers, suppliers and manufacturing facilities are located outside the United States. Accordingly, our future results could be harmed by a variety of factors, including, but not limited to: • inability to conduct business in certain countries or regions or with certain customers due to U.S. sanctions or trade restrictions; • inability to sell certain products, technologies, or services to countries, regions, facilities, or customers due to sanctions or trade restrictions; • changes in a specific country's or region's political, economic or other conditions, including but not limited to changes that favor national interests and economic volatility; • negative consequences from changes in tax laws; • difficulty in protecting intellectual property; • injunctions or exclusion orders related to intellectual property disputes; • interruptions to transportation flows for delivery of parts to us and finished goods to our customers; • changes in foreign currency exchange rates; • difficulty in staffing and managing foreign operations; • local competition; 16 • differing labor regulations; • unexpected changes in regulatory requirements; • conflicting regulatory requirements within the jurisdictions in which we operate; • inadequate local infrastructure; • potential incidences of corruption and fraudulent business practices; and • volatile geopolitical turmoil, including popular uprisings, regional conflicts, terrorism, and war. We centralize most of our accounting processes at two locations: India and Malaysia. If conditions change in those countries, it may adversely affect operations, including impairing our ability to pay our suppliers. Our results of operations, as well as our liquidity, may be adversely affected and possible delays may occur in reporting financial results. Further, even if we are able to successfully manage the risks of international operations, our business may be adversely affected if our business partners are not able to successfully manage similar risks. Economic and political policies favoring national interests could adversely affect our results of operations. Nationalistic economic policies and political trends such as opposition to globalization and free trade, sanctions or trade restrictions, including those on advanced computing and semiconductor manufacturing, withdrawal from or re-negotiation of global trade agreements, tax policies that favor domestic industries and interests, and other similar actions may result in conflicting local or regional requirements, increased transaction costs, reduced ability to hire employees, reduced access to supplies and materials, reduced demand or access to customers, and inability to conduct our operations as they have been conducted historically. Each of these factors may adversely affect our business. International trade disputes and increased tariffs between the United States and the United Kingdom, the European Union, Singapore, Malaysia and China, among other countries could substantially change our expectations and ability to operate in such jurisdictions as we have done historically. Many of our suppliers, vendors, customers, partners, and other entities with whom we do business have strong ties to doing business in China. Their ability to supply materials to us, buy products or services from us, or otherwise work with us is affected by their ability to do business in China. If the U.S.’s relationship with China results in additional trade disputes, trade protection measures, retaliatory actions, tariffs and increased barriers, policies that favor domestic industries, or increased import or export licensing requirements or restrictions, then our deployment of resources in jurisdictions affected by such measures could be misaligned and our operations may be adversely affected due to such changes in the economic and political ecosystem in which our suppliers, vendors, customers, partners, and other entities with whom we do business operate. Volatile geopolitical turmoil, including popular uprisings, regional conflicts, terrorism and war could result in market instability, which could negatively impact our business results. We are a global company with international operations, and we sell our products and solutions in countries throughout the world. Regional conflicts, including the Russian invasion of Ukraine, which resulted in economic sanctions and the decision to discontinue our operations in Russia, the war between Israel and Hamas, and the risk of increased tensions between China and Taiwan, could limit or prohibit our ability to transfer certain technologies, to sell our products and solutions, and could result in additional closure of facilities in sanctioned countries. In addition, international conflict could further result in global or regional market instability; increased energy costs, which could increase the cost of manufacturing, selling and delivering products and solutions; and increased risk of cybersecurity attacks, which could adversely impact our financial results. Our operating results and financial condition could be harmed if the markets into which we sell our solutions decline or do not grow as anticipated. Visibility into our markets is limited. Our quarterly sales and operating results are highly dependent on the volume and timing of technology-related spending and orders received during the fiscal quarter, which are difficult to forecast and may be cancelled by our customers. In addition, our revenues and earnings forecasts for future fiscal quarters are often based on the expected seasonality or cyclicality of our markets. However, due to factors such as inflation, the potential for recession, increased geopolitical tensions, including regional conflict and war, the markets we serve may experience increased volatility and may not experience the seasonality or cyclicality that we expect. Our customers’ markets may also be affected by changes in the legal regulatory regime. If our customers’ markets decline, orders may decline, may be delayed or cancelled, and we may not be able to collect on outstanding amounts due to us. Such declines could harm our financial position, results of operations, cash flows and stock price, and could limit our profitability. In such an environment, pricing pressures could intensify. Since a significant portion of our operating expenses is relatively fixed in nature due to sales, R&D and manufacturing costs, if we were unable to respond quickly enough, these pricing pressures could further reduce our operating margins. 17 A decreased demand for our customers’ products or trade restrictions could adversely affect our results of operations. Our business depends on our customers’ ability to manufacture, design, and sell their products in the marketplace. International trade disputes affecting our customers could adversely affect our business. Tariffs on imports to or from China could increase the cost of our customers’ components and raw materials, which could make our customers’ products and services more expensive and could reduce demand for our customers’ products. Protectionist and retaliatory trade measures by either China or the United States could limit our customers’ ability to sell their products and services and could reduce demand for our customers’ products. Our customers and other entities in our customer chain could decide to take actions in response to international trade disputes that we could not foresee. A decrease in demand or significant change in operations from our customers due to international trade disputes could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. Our customers and suppliers have at times become subject to U.S. export restrictions and sanctions, such as being added to the U.S. Department of Commerce’s “Lists of Parties of Concern” and having U.S. export privileges denied or suspended. When a customer or supplier of ours becomes subject to such sanctions, we suspend our business with such customer or supplier. Because of the continued tense political and economic relationship between the U.S. and China and between the U.S. and Russia, new restrictions or sanctions have been imposed with little notice, which could leave us without an adequate alternative solution to compensate for our inability to continue to do business with such customer or supplier. Some of our suppliers and customers in the supply chain are working on unique solutions and products in the market, and it may be difficult if not impossible to replace them, especially with short notice. We cannot predict what impact future sanctions could have on our customers or suppliers, and therefore, our business. Any export restrictions or sanctions and any tariffs or other trade restriction imposed on our customers or suppliers could adversely affect our financial condition and business. Failure to introduce successful new solutions and services in a timely manner to address increased competition, rapid technological changes, and changing industry standards could result in our solutions and services becoming obsolete. We generally sell our solutions in industries that are characterized by increased competition through frequent new solution and service introductions, rapid technological changes and innovations and changing industry standards. In addition, many of the markets in which we operate are seasonal and cyclical. Without the timely introduction of new solutions, services and enhancements, our solutions and services will become technologically obsolete over time, in which case our revenue and operating results would suffer. Our ability to offer new solutions and services and to deploy them in a timely manner depend on several factors, including, but not limited to, our ability to: • properly identify and assess customer needs; • innovate and develop new technologies, applications and solutions; • successfully commercialize new technologies in a timely manner; • manufacture and deliver our solutions in sufficient volumes and on time; • differentiate our offerings from our competitors' offerings; • price our solutions competitively; • anticipate our competitors' development of new solutions, services or technological innovations; and • control product quality in our manufacturing process. Our future operating results may fluctuate significantly if our investments in innovative technologies are not as profitable as we anticipate. On a regular basis, we review the existing technologies available in the market and identify strategic new technologies to develop and invest in. We devote significant resources to develop new technologies in the communications, aerospace and defense, automotive and Internet of Things. We invest in R&D, grow and deepen relationships with customers and suppliers, and direct our corporate and operational resources to develop innovative technologies. Our financial results could be harmed if we fail to expand our customer base, if demand for our solutions is lower than we expect, or if our revenue related to our innovative technologies is lower than we anticipate. We provide solutions for the design, development, and manufacturing stages of our customers’ workflow. Our customers who currently use our solutions in one stage of their workflow may not use our solutions in other aspects of their manufacturing process. Failure to adjust our purchases due to changing market conditions or failure to estimate our customers ’ demand could adversely affect our income. Our income could be harmed if we are unable to adjust our purchases to address market fluctuations, including those caused by volatile global economic conditions, geopolitical conflict, or the seasonal or cyclical nature of the markets in which 18 we operate. The sale of our solutions and services are dependent, to a large degree, on customers whose industries are subject to seasonal or cyclical trends in the demand for their products. For example, the consumer electronics market is particularly volatile, making demand difficult to anticipate. Making such estimations in an economic climate affected by inflation or potential recession, fluctuations in global currency, geopolitical tension and war is particularly difficult as increased volatility may impact seasonal trends making it more difficult to anticipate demand fluctuations. Supply chain fluctuations could impact our ability to purchase parts and components. Some parts require custom design and may not be readily available from alternate suppliers due to their unique design or the length of time necessary for design work. Should a supplier cease manufacturing such a component, we would be forced to re-engineer our solution. In addition to discontinuing parts, suppliers may also extend lead times, limit supplies or increase prices due to capacity constraints or other factors. In order to secure components for the production of products, we may continue to enter into non-cancellable purchase commitments with vendors, or at times make advance payments to suppliers, which could impact our ability to adjust our inventory to declining market demands. Prior commitments of this type have resulted in an excess of parts when demand for electronic products has decreased. If demand for our solutions is less than we expect, we may experience additional excess and obsolete inventories and be forced to incur additional charges. Dependence on contract manufacturing and outsourcing other portions of our supply chain may adversely affect our ability to bring solutions to market and damage our reputation. Dependence on outsourced information technology and other administrative functions may impair our ability to operate effectively. As part of our efforts to streamline operations and to cut costs, we outsource aspects of our manufacturing processes and other functions and continue to evaluate additional outsourcing. If our contract manufacturers or other outsourcers fail to perform their obligations in a timely manner or at satisfactory quality levels, our ability to bring solutions to market and our reputation could suffer. For example, during a market upturn, our contract manufacturers may be unable to meet our demand requirements, which may preclude us from fulfilling our customers’ orders on a timely basis. The ability of these manufacturers to perform is largely outside of our control. Additionally, changing or replacing our contract manufacturers or other outsourced vendors could cause disruptions or delays. We outsource significant portions of our information technology (“IT”) and other administrative functions. Since IT is critical to our operations, any failure of our IT providers to perform could impair our ability to operate effectively. Problems with manufacturing or IT outsourcing could result in lower revenues and unrealized efficiencies and could impact our results of operations and stock price. Much of our outsourcing takes place in developing countries and, as a result, may be subject to heightened geopolitical uncertainty. Our operating results may suffer if our manufacturing capacity does not match the demand for our solutions. Because we cannot immediately adapt our production capacity and related cost structures to rapidly changing market conditions, when demand is lower than our expectations, our manufacturing capacity will likely exceed our production requirements. During a general market upturn or an upturn in our business, if we cannot increase our manufacturing capacity to meet product demand, we will not be able to fulfill orders in a timely manner, which could lead to order cancellations, contract breaches or indemnification obligations. This inability could materially and adversely limit our ability to improve our income, margins and operating results. By contrast, if, during an economic downturn, we had excess manufacturing capacity, then our fixed costs associated with excess manufacturing capacity would adversely affect our income, margins and operating results. Key customers or large orders may expose us to additional business and legal risks that could have a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition . As a global company, we have key customers all over the world, although no one customer makes up more than 10 percent of our revenue. Sales to those customers could be reduced or eliminated as a result of failure to respond to customer needs, reduced customer demand, increased sales to our competitors, inability to manufacture or ship products and solutions, supply chain constraints, trade restrictions, sanctions and embargoes. We have experienced forced reductions in sales and been prevented from selling large orders to certain key customers due to trade restrictions, which we have been able to mitigate with the addition of new customers and new business. If we have future reductions in sales or lose key customers, there is no guarantee that we will be able to mitigate the impact of such reductions or losses, which could negatively impact our income, operating results and financial condition. Certain key customers have substantial purchasing power and leverage in negotiating contractual arrangements with us. These customers may demand contract terms that differ considerably from our standard terms and conditions. Large orders may also include severe contractual liabilities if we fail to provide the quantity and quality of product at the required delivery times or fail to meet other obligations. While we attempt to contractually limit our potential liability, we may agree to some or all of these provisions to secure these orders and grow our business. Such actions expose us to significant additional risks, which could result in a material adverse impact on our operating results and financial condition. 19 Industry consolidation and consolidation among our customer base may lead to increased competition and may harm our operating results. There is potential for industry consolidation in our markets. As companies attempt to expand, strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving industry, companies could be acquired or may be unable to continue operations. Companies that are strategic alliance partners in some areas of our business may acquire or form alliances with our competitors, thereby reducing their business with us. Industry consolidation may result in stronger competitors and could lead to more variability in our operating results and could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Furthermore, particularly in the communications market, rapid consolidation would lead to fewer customers, with the effect that loss of a major customer could have a material impact on results not anticipated in a customer marketplace composed of more numerous participants. Additionally, if there is consolidation among our customer base, our customers may be able to command increased leverage in negotiating prices and other terms of sale, which could adversely affect our profitability. If, as a result of increased leverage, customer pressures require us to reduce our pricing such that our gross margins are diminished, we could decide not to sell our solutions under such less favorable terms, which would decrease our revenue. Consolidation among our customer base may also lead to reduced demand for our solutions, replacement of our products by the combined entity with those of our competitors and cancellations of orders, each of which could harm our operating results. Our acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures, internal reorganizations and divestitures may result in financial results that are different than expected. In the normal course of business, we may engage in discussions with third parties relating to possible acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures and divestitures. Additionally, we occasionally make changes to our internal structure to align business products, services and solutions with market demands and to obtain cost synergies and operational efficiencies. As a result of such transactions, our financial results may differ from our own or the investment community’s expectations in a given fiscal quarter, or over the long-term. If market conditions or other factors lead us to change our strategic direction, we may not realize the expected value from such transactions or reorganizations. Further, such third-party transactions often have post-closing arrangements, including, but not limited to, post-closing adjustments, transition services, escrows or indemnifications, the financial results of which can be difficult to predict. Acquisitions and strategic alliances may require us to integrate a different company culture, management team, employees and business infrastructure into our existing operations without impacting the business operations of the newly acquired company. We may have difficulty developing, manufacturing and marketing the products of a newly acquired company in a way that enhances performance and expands the markets of the newly acquired company. The acquired company may not enhance the performance of our businesses or product lines such that we do not realize the value from expected synergies. Depending on the size and complexity of an acquisition, the successful integration of the entity depends on a variety of factors, including but not limited to: • the achievement of anticipated cost savings, synergies, business opportunities and growth prospects from combining the acquired company; • the scalability of production, manufacturing and marketing of products of a newly acquired company to broader adjacent markets; • the ability to cohesively integrate operations, product definitions, price lists, contract terms and conditions, delivery, and technical support for products and solutions of a newly acquired company into our existing operations; • the compatibility of our infrastructure, operations, policies and organizations with those of the acquired company; • the retention of key employees and/or customers; • the management of facilities and employees in different geographic areas; and • the management of relationships with our strategic partners, suppliers, and customer base. If we do not realize the expected benefits or synergies of such transactions, our consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows and stock price could be negatively impacted. Additionally, we may record significant goodwill and other assets as a result of acquisitions or investments, and we may be required to incur impairment charges, which could adversely affect our consolidated financial position and results of operations. Any inability to complete acquisitions on acceptable terms could negatively impact our growth rate and financial performance. Our ability to grow revenues, earnings and cash flow depends in part upon our ability to identify and successfully acquire and integrate businesses at appropriate prices and realize anticipated synergies and business performance. Appropriate targets for acquisition are difficult to identify and complete for a variety of reasons, including, but not limited to, limited due 20 diligence, high valuations, difficulty obtaining business and intellectual property evaluations, other interested parties, negotiations of the definitive documentation, satisfaction of closing conditions, the need to obtain antitrust or other regulatory approvals on acceptable terms, and availability of funding. The inability to close appropriate acquisitions on acceptable terms could adversely impact our growth rate, revenue, and financial performance. We may need additional financing in the future to meet our capital needs or to make opportunistic acquisitions, and such financing may not be available on terms favorable to us, if at all, and may be dilutive to existing shareholders. We may need to seek additional financing for our general corporate purposes. For example, we may need to increase our investment in R&D activities or need funds to make acquisitions. We may be unable to obtain any desired additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to fund our expansion, successfully develop or enhance solutions or respond to competitive pressures, any of which could negatively affect our business. If we raise additional funds through the issuance of equity securities, our shareholders will experience dilution of their ownership interest. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt, we may be subject to further limitations on our operations and ability to pay dividends due to restrictive covenants. We have outstanding debt and may incur other debt in the future, which could adversely affect our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations. We currently have outstanding debt as well as availability to borrow under a revolving credit facility. We may borrow additional amounts in the future and use the proceeds from any future borrowing for general corporate purposes, future acquisitions, expansion of our business or repurchases of our outstanding shares of common stock. Our incurrence of debt, and increases in our aggregate levels of debt, may adversely affect our operating results and financial condition by, among other things: • requiring a portion of our cash flow from operations to make interest payments on outstanding debt; • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • reducing the cash flow available to fund capital expenditures and other corporate purposes and to grow our business; and • limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the industry. Our current revolving credit facility imposes restrictions on us, including restrictions on our ability to create liens on our assets and the ability of our subsidiaries to incur indebtedness, and requires us to maintain compliance with specified financial ratios. Our ability to comply with these ratios may be affected by events beyond our control. In addition, the indenture governing our senior notes contains covenants that may adversely affect our ability to incur certain liens. If we breach any of the covenants and do not obtain a waiver from the lenders, then, subject to applicable cure periods, our outstanding indebtedness could be declared immediately due and payable. Volatility in currency exchange rates could adversely impact our financial results. A substantial amount of our solutions are priced and paid for in U.S. Dollars, although many of our solutions are priced in local currencies and a significant amount of certain types of expenses, such as payroll, utilities, tax and marketing expenses, are paid in local currencies and could be impacted by significant currency exchange rate fluctuations. Our hedging programs are designed to reduce, but not entirely eliminate, within any given 12-month period, the impact of currency exchange rate movements, including those caused by currency controls, which could impact our business, operating results and financial condition by resulting in lower revenue or increased expenses. However, for expenses beyond a 12-month period, our hedging strategy will not mitigate our exchange rate risk. In addition, our currency hedging programs involve third-party financial institutions as counterparties. The weakening or failure of these counterparties may adversely affect our hedging programs and our financial condition through, among other things, a reduction in the number of available counterparties, increasingly unfavorable terms or the failure of counterparties to perform under hedging contracts. We are or will be subject to ongoing tax examinations of our tax returns by the IRS and other tax authorities. An adverse outcome of any such audit or examination by the IRS or other tax authority could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. We are or will be subject to ongoing tax examinations of our tax returns by the IRS and other tax authorities in various jurisdictions. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from ongoing tax examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. These assessments can require considerable estimates and judgments. Intercompany transactions associated with the sale of inventory, services, intellectual property and cost sharing arrangements are complex and affect our tax liabilities. The calculation of our tax liabilities involves uncertainties in the application of complex tax laws and regulations in multiple jurisdictions. The outcomes of these tax examinations could have an adverse 21 effect on our operating results and financial condition. Due to the complexity of tax contingencies, the ultimate resolution of any tax matters related to operations may result in payments greater or less than amounts accrued. Our effective tax rate may be adversely impacted by changes in our business mix or changes in the tax legislative landscape. Our effective tax rate may be adversely impacted by, among other things, changes in the mix of our earnings among countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation allowance of deferred tax assets, and changes in tax laws. We cannot give any assurance as to what our effective tax rate will be in the future because, among other things, there is uncertainty regarding the tax policies of the jurisdictions where we operate. Changes in tax laws, such as tax reform in the United States or changes in tax laws resulting from the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development’s (“OECD”) multi-jurisdictional plan of action to address “base erosion and profit shifting” and the taxation of the “Digital Economy,” could impact our effective tax rate. On June 14, 2019, the U.S. Department of the Treasury (“Treasury”) issued final regulations relating to Global Intangible Low Taxed Income (“GILTI”) under IRC § 951A (the “tax regulations”). The tax regulations contained language which disallowed GILTI tax deductions for intangible asset amortization resulting from the Singapore restructuring completed in 2018. During the third quarter of fiscal year 2024, the company concluded, in response to recent U.S. Supreme Court decisions on a number of relevant cases, the evolving global tax landscape and other changes in circumstances, that Treasury exceeded regulatory authority and the intangible asset amortization should be deductible. The company amended its U.S. federal income tax returns for the open tax years to claim the deduction and recognized the discrete benefit in the consolidated financial statements. The GILTI tax benefit for the fiscal year 2024 amortization is included in the annual effective tax rate, and the Singapore intangible assets will continue to be amortized for GILTI tax purposes until 2033. The company believes the position meets the more likely than not recognition threshold. The company intends to vigorously defend its position. The outcome cannot be predicted with certainty. If we are ultimately unsuccessful in defending our position, we may be required to reverse the benefit previously recorded, which may impact our financial statements and our profitability in the quarter in which such a reversal is required. If tax laws or incentives change or cease to be in effect, our income taxes could increase significantly. We are subject to federal, state, and local taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. We devote significant resources to evaluating our tax positions and our worldwide provision for taxes. Any changes to the positions we have taken could result in an impact to our financial statements. Our financial results and tax treatment are susceptible to changes in tax, accounting, and other laws, including the Inflation Reduction Act and The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act in the U.S, regulations, principles, and interpretations in the United States and in other jurisdictions where we do business. With the existence of economic and political policies that favor domestic interests, it is possible that more countries will enact tax laws that either increase the tax rates, or reduce or change the tax incentives available to multinational companies. Upon a change in tax laws in any territory where we do significant business, we may not be able to maintain our current tax rate or qualify for or maintain the benefits of any tax incentives offered, to the extent such incentives are offered. Keysight benefits from tax incentives in several jurisdictions, most significantly in Singapore and Malaysia. The Malaysia tax incentive expires October 31, 2025. The former Singapore tax incentive expired July 31, 2024. We entered into a new Singapore tax incentive agreement effective August 1, 2024. The tax incentives provide lower rates of taxation on certain classes of income and require thresholds of investments and employment in those jurisdictions. If we cannot or do not wish to satisfy all or portions of the tax incentives conditions, we will lose the related tax incentives and could be required to refund the benefits that the tax incentives previously provided. We believe that we will satisfy such conditions, but cannot guarantee that the tax environment will not change or that such conditions will be satisfied. Our taxes could increase if the existing Malaysia incentive is revoked or not renewed upon expiration. We cannot guarantee that we will qualify for any new incentive regime that may exist going forward. As a result, our effective tax rate could be higher than it would have been had we renewed the tax incentive and could harm our operating results after tax. If we suffer a loss to our factories, facilities or distribution system due to a catastrophic event, including events caused by the effects of climate change, our operations could be significantly harmed. Our factories, facilities and distribution system are vulnerable to catastrophic loss due to natural or man-made disasters. Volatile changes in weather conditions, including extreme heat or cold, could increase the risk of wildfires, floods, blizzards, hurricanes and other weather-related disasters, which can cause power outages and network disruptions that may impact operations and our ability to manufacture and ship products, which may negatively impact revenue. In addition, several of our facilities could be subject to a catastrophic loss caused by earthquake or other natural disasters due to their locations. For example, our production facilities, headquarters and laboratories in California and our production facilities in Japan are all located in areas with above-average seismic activity. If any of these facilities were to experience a catastrophic loss, it could disrupt our operations, delay production, shipments and revenue and result in large expenses to repair or replace the facility. Since we have consolidated our manufacturing facilities, we are more likely to experience an interruption to our operations in 22 the event of a catastrophe in any one location. Although we carry insurance for property damage and business interruption, we do not carry insurance or financial reserves for interruptions or potential losses arising from earthquakes or terrorism. Even where insured, there is a risk that an insurer may deny or limit coverage or may become financially incapable of covering claims. Also, our third-party insurance coverage will vary from time to time in both type and amount depending on availability, cost and our decisions with respect to risk retention. Economic conditions and uncertainties in global markets may adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which we are able to obtain third-party insurance. If our third-party insurance coverage is adversely affected, or to the extent we have elected to self-insure, we may be at a greater risk that our operations will be harmed by a catastrophic loss. Our commitment to net zero emissions in company operations by fiscal year 2040 will be subject to significant costs and regulations, which could impact business operations, processes, revenue, and reputation. In May 2021, the company disclosed its commitment to achieving net zero Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions by the end of fiscal year 2040. The company plans to meet this commitment by reducing energy consumption through efficiency and conservation measures, investments in renewable energy and selective purchase of certified offsets for residual emissions. The company also committed in September 2021 to developing approved science-based targets in line with limiting global warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius above pre-industrial levels. In addition to Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions defined by our net zero goal, the company has developed Scope 3 reduction and engagement targets across relevant categories as part of our commitment to science-based targets, which were approved by Science Based Target Initiative (“SBTi”) on October 27, 2023. The development and implementation of goals and targets may require significant and expensive capital improvements, changes in product development, manufacturing processes and shipping methods. These changes may materially increase the cost to manufacture and ship products and solutions, result in price increases to customers, reduce product or solution performance, and create customer dissatisfaction, potentially adversely impacting our revenue and profitability. Achieving net zero emissions goals and targets may entail compliance with evolving laws and regulatory requirements, which may cause us to change or reconfigure facilities and operations to meet regulatory standards. If operations are out of compliance, we may be subject to civil or criminal actions, fines and penalties and be required to make significant changes to facilities and operations and temporarily or permanently shut down non-compliant operations, which could result in business disruption and significant unexpected expense, delays in or inability to develop, manufacture and ship products and solutions, customer dissatisfaction, loss of revenue and damage to our reputation. If we are unable to sufficiently reduce Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions through energy reduction measures or our investments in renewable energy are not successful, we may fail to achieve our net zero emission commitment by fiscal year 2040. If we are unable to achieve Scope 3 reduction and engagement targets, we may fail to achieve our commitment to science-based targets. Failing to achieve the company’s net zero or science-based targets commitments could result in regulatory non-compliance, criminal or civil actions against us, assessment of fees and penalties, inability to develop, manufacture and ship products, customer dissatisfaction with our products and solutions, reduced revenue and profitability, shareholder lawsuits and damage to our reputation. Third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights, and we could suffer significant litigation or licensing expenses or be prevented from selling solutions or services. From time to time parties have claimed that one or more of our solutions or services infringe their intellectual property rights. We analyze and take action in response to such claims on a case-by-case basis. On January 1, 2022, Centripetal Networks filed a lawsuit in Federal District Court in Virginia, alleging that certain Keysight products infringe certain of Centripetal’s patents. In addition, in February 2022, Centripetal filed complaints in Germany alleging infringement of certain of Centripetal’s German patents, and in April 2022, Centripetal filed a complaint with the International Trade Commission (“ITC”) requesting that they investigate whether Keysight violated Section 337 of the Tariff Act (“Section 337”) and should be enjoined from importing certain products that are manufactured outside of the U.S. which are alleged to infringe Centripetal patents. On December 5, 2023, the ITC issued its Notice of Determination that Keysight did not unfairly import products in violation of Section 337 and the investigation was terminated. Centripetal has appealed this determination. On August 21, 2024, Keysight was served in Germany with a complaint filed in the Unified Patent Court alleging that certain Keysight products sold in Germany, France, Italy and the Netherlands infringe a European Centripetal patent. Although we deny the allegations and are aggressively defending each case, the outcome of existing proceedings, lawsuits and claims may differ from our expectations because the outcomes of litigation are often difficult to reliably predict. Disputes and litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property are costly and time-consuming due to the complexity of our technology and the uncertainty of intellectual property litigation and could divert our management and key personnel from business operations. Claims of intellectual property infringement could cause us to enter into a costly or restrictive license agreement (which may not be available under acceptable terms, or at all), require us to redesign certain of our solutions (which would be costly and time-consuming) and/or subject us to significant damages or an injunction against the development, sale and importation of certain solutions or services. In certain of our businesses, we rely on third-party 23 intellectual property licenses, and we cannot ensure that these licenses will be available to us in the future on terms favorable to us or at all. Third parties may infringe our intellectual property rights, and we may suffer competitive injury or expend significant resources enforcing our intellectual property rights. Our success depends in part on our proprietary technology, including technology we obtained through acquisitions. We rely on various intellectual property rights, including patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets, as well as confidentiality provisions and licensing arrangements, to establish our proprietary rights. If we do not enforce our intellectual property rights successfully, our competitive position may suffer, which could harm our operating results. Our pending patent, copyright and trademark registration applications may not be allowed or competitors may challenge the validity or scope of our patents, copyrights or trademarks. In addition, our patents, copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual property rights may not provide us with a significant competitive advantage. Different jurisdictions vary widely in the level of protection and priority they give to trademark and other intellectual property rights. We may be required to spend significant resources monitoring our intellectual property rights, and we may or may not be able to detect infringement of such rights by third parties. Our competitive position may be harmed if we cannot detect infringement and enforce our intellectual property rights in a timely manner, or at all. Intellectual property rights and our ability to enforce them may be unavailable or limited in some countries, which could make it easier for competitors to infringe our intellectual property rights and could result in lost revenues to the company. Furthermore, some of our intellectual property is licensed to others, which allows them to compete with us using that intellectual property. If we experience a significant cybersecurity attack or disruption in our IT systems or our products, our business, reputation, and operating results could be adversely affected. We rely on several centralized IT systems as well as cloud-based service providers to provide solutions and services, maintain financial records, retain sensitive data such as intellectual property, proprietary business information, and data related to customers, suppliers, and business partners, process orders, manage inventory, process shipments to customers and operate other critical functions. The ongoing maintenance and security of this information is pertinent to the success of our business operations and our strategic goals. Despite the implementation of network security measures by us and our third-party service providers, our network and our data may be vulnerable to cybersecurity attacks, computer viruses, break-ins and similar disruptions. Our network security measures include, but are not limited to, the implementation of firewalls, antivirus protection, patches, log monitors, routine backups, offsite storage, network audits, employee training and routine updates and modifications. Despite our efforts and those of our service providers to create these security barriers, as new threats emerge it is virtually impossible to entirely eliminate this risk. Cybersecurity attacks are evolving and include, but are not limited to, ransomware attacks, malicious software, attempts to gain unauthorized access to data, and other electronic security breaches that could lead to disruptions in systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and corruption of data. Any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, reputation, operating results and financial condition, and no assurance can be given that efforts to reduce the risk of such attacks will be successful. Our products may contain vulnerabilities that could be exploited by cybersecurity attackers, allowing them to introduce malicious code into our products to gain access to customer networks. Such attacks could lead to disruptions to our customers’ operations or processes, system downtime, financial loss, loss of their intellectual property, business information and proprietary data, or corruption of data, which could impact Keysight’s reputation, and result in loss of confidence in our products, loss of orders, and loss in revenue, which could materially impact our financial results. We proactively scan for vulnerabilities in our product lines. When vulnerabilities are discovered, we respond with a predefined Product Security Response Process to address the vulnerability, but we cannot eliminate the possibility of a successful cybersecurity attack or exploitation of undiscovered vulnerabilities. In an effort to improve information security, governments may enact rules, regulations, standards and attestation requirements. These requirements may be unclear, onerous, and compliance may be burdensome and costly. Additionally, the requirements may vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction and may include differing or conflicting requirements. Compliance with the requirements could impact both the order availability of existing products as well as the introduction timing of new products, which could cause customers to stop purchasing our solutions and could impact our revenue and profits. The failure to comply with such requirements, once enacted, may result in lost orders, reduced revenue, fines, penalties and damage to our reputation. In addition, our IT systems and those of our service providers may be susceptible to damage, disruptions, instability, or shutdowns due to power outages, hardware failures, telecommunication failures, user errors, implementation of new operational systems or software or upgrades to existing systems and software, catastrophes, or other unforeseen events. Such events could result in the disruption of business processes, network degradation and system downtime, along with the potential that a third 24 party will exploit our critical assets, such as intellectual property, proprietary business information and data related to our customers, suppliers and business partners. Further, such events could result in loss of revenue, loss of or reduction in purchase orders, inability to report financial information, litigation, regulatory fines and penalties, and other damage that could have a material impact on our business operations. To the extent that such disruptions occur, our customers and partners may lose confidence in our solutions, and we may lose business or brand reputation, resulting in a material and adverse effect on our business operating results and financial condition. Our business will suffer if we are not able to retain and hire key personnel. Our future success depends partly on the continued service of our key research, engineering, sales, marketing, manufacturing, executive and administrative personnel, including personnel joining our company through acquisitions. The markets in which we operate are dynamic, and from time to time we may need to respond with reorganizations, reductions in workforce, salary freezes or reductions, or site closings. We believe our compensation packages are competitive within the regions in which we operate. If we fail to retain key personnel and are unable to hire highly qualified replacements, we may not be able to meet key objectives, such as launching effective product innovations, meeting financial goals and maintaining or expanding our business. If we fail to maintain satisfactory compliance with certain regulations, we may be subject to substantial negative financial consequences and civil or criminal penalties. We and our customers are subject to various significant international, federal, state and local regulations, including, but not limited to, export regulations, sanctions and embargoes, packaging, data privacy, product content, environmental, health and safety and labor. These regulations are complex, change frequently and may become more stringent over time. We have been required to incur significant expenses to comply with these regulations and to remedy violations of certain import/export regulations. Any future failure by us to comply with applicable government regulations could also result in cessation of our operations or portions of our operations, high financial penalties, product recalls or impositions of fines, and restrictions on our ability to carry on or expand our operations. If demand for our solutions is adversely affected or our costs increase, our business would suffer. Our R&D, manufacturing and distribution operations involve the use of hazardous substances and are regulated under international, federal, state and local laws governing health and safety and the environment. We are also regulated under a number of international, federal, state and local laws regarding recycling, product packaging and product content requirements. We apply strict standards for protection of the environment and occupational health and safety inside and outside the United States, even where not subject to regulation imposed by foreign governments. We believe that our properties and operations at our facilities comply in all material respects with applicable environmental and occupational health and safety laws. In spite of these efforts, no assurance can be given that we will be compliant with all applicable environmental and workplace health and safety laws and regulations and violations could result in civil or criminal sanctions, fines and penalties. We have developed internal data handling policies and practices to comply with the General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”) in the European Union and data privacy regulations similar to GDPR in other jurisdictions. Our existing business strategy does not rely on aggregating or selling personally identifiable information, and as a general matter Keysight does not process personally identifiable information on behalf of our customers. We devote resources to keep up with the changing regulatory environment on data privacy in the jurisdictions where we do business. Despite our efforts, no assurance can be given that we will be compliant with data privacy regulations. New laws, amendments, or interpretations of regulations, industry standards, and contractual obligations relating to data privacy may require us to incur additional costs and restrict our business operations. If we fail to comply with GDPR or other data privacy regulation, we may be subject to significant financial fines and civil or criminal penalties, and may suffer damage to our reputation or brand, which could adversely affect our business and financial results. In addition, our products and operations are also often subject to the rules of industrial standards bodies, like the International Standards Organization, as well as regulation by other agencies such as the U.S. Federal Communications Commission. We also must comply with work safety rules. If we fail to adequately address any of these regulations, our businesses could be harmed. Failure to comply with anti-corruption laws could adversely affect our business and result in financial penalties. Because we have extensive international operations, we must comply with complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the U.K. Bribery Act and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials, and anti-competition regulations. Although we actively maintain policies and procedures designed to ensure ongoing compliance with these laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate these policies and procedures. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions, restrictions on our business conduct and on our ability to offer our solutions in one or more 25 countries, and could also materially affect our brand, ability to attract and retain employees, international operations, business and operating results. Our business and financial results may be adversely affected by various legal and regulatory proceedings. We are subject to legal proceedings, lawsuits and other claims in the normal course of business and could become subject to additional claims in the future, some of which could be material. On January 1, 2022, Centripetal Networks filed a lawsuit in Federal District Court in Virginia, alleging that certain Keysight products infringe certain of Centripetal’s patents. In addition, in February 2022, Centripetal filed complaints in Germany alleging infringement of certain of Centripetal’s German patents, and in April 2022, Centripetal filed a complaint with the International Trade Commission (“ITC”) requesting that they investigate whether Keysight violated Section 377 of the Tariff Act and should be enjoined from importing certain products that are manufactured outside of the U.S. and alleged to infringe Centripetal patents. On December 5, 2023, the ITC issued its Notice of Determination that Keysight did not unfairly import products in violation of Section 337 and the investigation was terminated. Centripetal has appealed this determination. On August 21, 2024, Keysight was served in Germany with a complaint filed in the Unified Patent Court alleging that certain Keysight products sold in Germany, France, Italy and the Netherlands infringe a European Centripetal patent. Although we deny the allegations and are aggressively defending each case, the outcome of existing proceedings, lawsuits and claims may differ from our expectations because the outcomes of litigation are often difficult to reliably predict. Various factors or developments can lead us to change current estimates of liabilities and related insurance receivables where applicable, or permit us to make such estimates for matters previously not susceptible to reasonable estimates, such as a significant judicial ruling or judgment, a significant settlement, significant regulatory developments or changes in applicable law. A future adverse ruling, settlement or unfavorable development could result in charges that could adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. Our internal controls may be determined to be ineffective, which may adversely affect investor confidence in our company, the value of our stock, and our access to capital. We devote significant resources and time to comply with various internal control over financial reporting requirements, including the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002. However, we cannot be certain that these measures will ensure that we design, implement and maintain adequate control over our financial processes and reporting in the future, especially in the context of acquisitions of other businesses. Any difficulties in the assimilation of acquired businesses into our control system could harm our operating results or cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations. Ineffective internal controls could also cause investors to lose confidence in our reported financial information, which could have a negative effect on the trading price of our stock or on our access to capital, or cause us to be subject to investigation or sanctions by the SEC. Adverse conditions in the global banking industry and credit markets may adversely impact the value of our cash investments or impair our liquidity. Our cash and cash equivalents are invested or held in a mix of money market funds, time deposit accounts and bank demand deposit accounts. Disruptions in the financial markets may, in some cases, result in an inability to access assets such as money market funds that traditionally have been viewed as highly liquid. Any failure of our counterparty financial institutions or funds in which we have invested may adversely impact our cash and cash equivalent positions and, in turn, our results and financial condition. Future investment returns on pension assets may be lower than expected or interest rates may decline, requiring us to make significant additional cash contributions to our future plans. We sponsor several defined benefit pension plans that cover many of our employees. The Federal Pension Protection Act of 2006 requires that certain capitalization levels be maintained in each of the U.S. plans, and there may be similar funding requirements in the plans outside the United States. Because it is unknown what the investment return on and the fair value of our pension assets will be in future years or what interest rates and discount rates may be at any point in time, no assurances can be given that applicable law will not require us to make future material plan contributions. Any such contributions could adversely affect our financial condition. Environmental contamination from past operations could subject us to unreimbursed costs and could harm on-site operations and the future use and value of the properties involved, and environmental contamination caused by ongoing operations could subject us to substantial liabilities in the future. Some of our properties have been the subject of remediation by HP Inc. (“HP”) for subsurface contaminations that were known at the time of Agilent's separation from HP in 1999. In connection with Agilent's separation from HP, HP and Agilent entered into an agreement pursuant to which HP agreed to retain the liability for this subsurface contamination, perform the required remediation and indemnify Agilent with respect to claims arising out of that contamination. Agilent has assigned its rights and obligations under this agreement to Keysight in respect to facilities transferred to us in the separation. As a result, HP 26 will have access to a limited number of our properties to perform remediation. Although HP agreed to minimize interference with on-site operations at such properties, remediation activities and subsurface contamination may require us to incur unreimbursed costs and could harm on-site operations and the future use and value of the properties. In connection with the separation, Agilent will indemnify us directly for any liabilities related thereto. We cannot be sure that HP will continue to fulfill its remediation obligations or that Agilent will continue to fulfill its indemnification obligations. On December 17, 2021, Keysight and HP signed a restrictive covenant related to our Santa Rosa facility that prohibits certain uses of the property (such as running a daycare facility, hospital or school) and terminates HP’s remediation obligation related to that facility. HP’s remediation obligations relating to Keysight’s Colorado Springs facility are ongoing. Our current manufacturing processes involve the use of substances regulated under various international, federal, state and local laws governing the environment. As a result, we may become subject to liabilities for environmental contamination, and these liabilities may be substantial. Although our policy is to apply strict standards for environmental protection at our sites inside and outside the United States, even if the sites outside the United States are not subject to regulations imposed by foreign governments, we may not be aware of all conditions that could subject us to liability. Risks Related to Our Common Stock Our share price may fluctuate significantly. Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (“NYSE”) under the ticker symbol “KEYS.” The market price of our common stock may fluctuate widely, depending on many factors, some of which may be beyond our control, including, but not limited to: • actual or anticipated fluctuations in our operating results due to factors related to our business; • success or failure of our business strategy; • our quarterly or annual earnings, or those of other companies in our industry; • our ability to obtain third-party financing as needed; • announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions or dispositions; • changes in accounting standards, policies, guidance, interpretations or principles; • the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock; • changes in earnings estimates by securities analysts or our ability to meet those estimates; • the operating and share price performance of other comparable companies; • investor perception of our company; • natural or other disasters that investors believe may affect us; • overall market fluctuations; • results from any material litigation or government investigations; • changes in laws or regulations affecting our business; • changes to our tax rate that may affect our profitability; • new or expanded trade restrictions; • economic conditions such as inflation or recession; • geopolitical conflicts; and • other external factors. Stock markets in general have experienced volatility that has often been unrelated to the operating performance of a particular company. These broad market fluctuations have adversely affected the trading price of our common stock. When the market price of a company’s shares drops significantly, shareholders often institute securities class action lawsuits against the company. A lawsuit against us could cause us to incur substantial costs and could divert the time and attention of management and other resources. 27 We do not currently pay dividends on our common stock. We do not currently pay dividends on our common stock. The payment of any dividends in the future, and the timing and amount thereof, to our stockholders fall within the discretion of our board of directors. The board’s decisions regarding the payment of dividends will depend on many factors, such as our financial condition, earnings, capital requirements, debt service obligations, restrictive covenants in our debt, industry practice, legal requirements, regulatory constraints and other factors that our board of directors deem relevant. Certain provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws, and of Delaware law, may prevent or delay an acquisition of the company, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain, and Delaware law contains, provisions that are intended to deter coercive takeover practices and inadequate takeover bids by making such practices or bids unacceptably expensive to the bidder and to encourage prospective acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors rather than to attempt a hostile takeover. These provisions include, but are not limited to: • the inability of our shareholders to call a special meeting; • the inability of our shareholders to act without a meeting of shareholders; • rules regarding how shareholders may present proposals or nominate directors for election at shareholder meetings; • the right of our board of directors to issue preferred stock without shareholder approval; • the division of our board of directors into three classes of directors, with each class serving a staggered three-year term, and this classified board provision could have the effect of making the replacement of incumbent directors more time consuming and difficult; • a provision that shareholders may only remove directors with cause; and • the ability of our directors, and not shareholders, to fill vacancies on our board of directors. In addition, because we have not chosen to be exempt from Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law (the “DGCL”), this provision could also delay or prevent a change of control that some shareholders may favor. Section 203 provides that, subject to limited exceptions, persons that acquire, or are affiliated with a person that acquires, more than 15 percent of the outstanding voting stock of a Delaware corporation (an “interested stockholder”) shall not engage in any business combination with that corporation, including by merger, consolidation or acquisitions of additional shares, for a three-year period following the date on which the person became an interested stockholder, unless (i) prior to such time, the board of directors of such corporation approved either the business combination or the transaction that resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder; (ii) upon consummation of the transaction that resulted in the stockholder becoming an interested stockholder, the interested stockholder owned at least 85 percent of the voting stock of such corporation at the time the transaction commenced (excluding for purposes of determining the voting stock outstanding (but not the outstanding voting stock owned by the interested stockholder) the voting stock owned by directors who are also officers or held in employee benefit plans in which the employees do not have a confidential right to tender or vote stock held by the plan); or (iii) on or subsequent to such time the business combination is approved by the board of directors of such corporation and authorized at a meeting of shareholders by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the outstanding voting stock of such corporation not owned by the interested stockholder. We believe these provisions will protect our shareholders from coercive or otherwise unfair takeover tactics by requiring potential acquirers to negotiate with our board of directors and by providing our board of directors with more time to assess any acquisition proposal. These provisions are not intended to make us immune from takeovers. However, these provisions will apply even if the offer may be considered beneficial by some shareholders and could delay or prevent an acquisition that our board of directors determines is not in the best interests of the company and our shareholders. These provisions may also prevent or discourage attempts to remove and replace incumbent directors. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation designates that the state courts in the State of Delaware or, if no state court located within the State of Delaware has jurisdiction, the federal court for the District of Delaware, as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our shareholders, which could discourage lawsuits against the company and our directors and officers. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provide that unless the board of directors otherwise determines, the state courts in the State of Delaware or, if no state court located within the State of Delaware has jurisdiction, the federal court for the District of Delaware, will be the sole and exclusive forum for any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf, any action asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any of our directors or officers to the company or our shareholders, any action asserting a claim against us or any of our directors or officers arising pursuant to any provision of the 28 DGCL or Keysight's amended and restated certificate of incorporation or bylaws, or any action asserting a claim against us or any of our directors or officers governed by the internal affairs doctrine. This exclusive forum provision may limit the ability of our shareholders to bring a claim in a judicial forum that such shareholders find favorable for disputes with us or our directors or officers, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and our directors and officers.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This report contains forward-looking statements which include but are not limited to predictions, future guidance, projections, beliefs, and expectations about the company’s trends, seasonality, cyclicality and growth in, and drivers of, the markets we sell into, our strategic direction, earnings from our foreign subsidiaries, remediation activities, new solution and service introductions, the ability of our solutions to meet market needs, changes to our manufacturing processes, the use of contract manufacturers, the impact of government regulations on our ability to conduct operations, our liquidity position, our ability to generate cash from operations, growth in our businesses, our investments, the potential impact of adopting new accounting pronouncements, our financial results, our purchase commitments, our contributions to our pension plans, the selection of discount rates and recognition of any gains or losses for our benefit plans, our cost-control activities, savings and headcount reduction recognized from our restructuring programs and other cost saving initiatives, and other regulatory approvals, the integration of our completed acquisitions and other transactions, and our transition to lower-cost regions. The forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause Keysight’s results to differ materially from management’s current expectations. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the impact of global economic conditions such as inflation or potential recession, slowing demand for products or services, volatility in financial markets, reduced access to credit, increased interest rates, the existence of political or economic instability, uncertainty related to the impact of national elections results in the U.S. and UK, impacts of geopolitical tension and conflict in regions outside of the U.S., the impacts of increased trade tension and tightening of export control regulations, the impact of new and ongoing litigation, impacts related to net zero emissions commitments, and the impact of volatile weather caused by environmental conditions such as climate change. Our actual results could differ materially from the results contemplated by these forward-looking statements due to various factors, including but not limited to those risks and uncertainties discussed in Part I Item 1A and elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Overview and Executive Summary Keysight Technologies, Inc. (“we,” “us,” “Keysight” or the “company”), incorporated in Delaware on December 6, 2013, is a global innovator in the computing, communications and electronics market, committed to advancing our customers’ business success by helping them solve critical challenges in the development and commercialization of their products and services. Our mission, “accelerating innovation to connect and secure the world,” speaks to the value we provide our customers in a world of ever-increasing technological complexity. We deliver this value through a broad range of design and test solutions that address the critical challenges our customers face in bringing their innovations to market on ever-shorter schedules. Our fiscal year end is October 31. Unless otherwise stated, all years and dates refer to our fiscal year. Acquisition of ESI Group SA In the first quarter of fiscal 2024, we acquired all of the outstanding common stock of ESI Group SA (“ESI Group”) for $935 million, net of cash acquired, using existing cash. For the year ended October 31, 2024, our acquisition of ESI Group resulted in incremental revenue of $141 million. In our discussion of changes in our results of operations, we have qualitatively disclosed the impact of the ESI Group acquisition. See Note 2, “Acquisitions,” for additional information. Macroeconomic environment Our global operations continued to be affected by a challenging macro environment, including higher interest rates, currency movements, inflationary pressures, geopolitical tensions and trade restrictions. These factors resulted in lower demand, as our customers also exercised caution in light of the same environment. Against this backdrop, we remained operationally disciplined by exercising our financial playbook and the structural flexibility in our operating model, while investing to expand our differentiated solutions portfolio and deepening our customer relationships. Consistent with the Keysight Leadership Model, our differentiated first-to-market solutions portfolio, technology leadership, customer relationships, and durable and resilient business model give us confidence in the long-term trajectory of the business and our ability to outperform in a variety of market conditions and deliver consistent long-term value to our customers. For discussion of risks related to potential impacts of macroeconomic headwinds and geopolitical challenges on our operations, business results and financial condition, see Part I Item 1A “Risk Factors.” 35 Years ended October 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022 Orders were $5,033 million, $5,190 million, and $5,984 million in 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Orders of $5,033 million for 2024 decreased 3 percent compared to 2023. Acquisitions had a favorable impact of 4 percentage points on the order change for 2024 compared to 2023. Foreign currency movements had an immaterial impact on the order change for 2024 compared to 2023. Orders declined in the Americas and Asia Pacific, while Europe was flat. Orders of $5,190 million for 2023 decreased 13 percent compared to 2022. Foreign currency movements had an unfavorable impact of 1 percentage point on the order change for 2023 compared to 2022. Orders declined across all regions, including a double-digit decline in Asia Pacific. Revenue was $4,979 million, $5,464 million, and $5,420 million in 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Revenue of $4,979 million for 2024 decreased 9 percent compared to 2023. Acquisitions had a favorable impact of 3 percentage points on the revenue change for 2024 compared to 2023. Foreign currency movements had an immaterial impact on the revenue change for 2024 compared to 2023. Revenue declined in both the Communications Solutions Group (“CSG”) and the Electronic Industrial Solutions Group (“EISG”). Revenue from CSG and EISG represented approximately 69 percent and 31 percent, respectively, of total revenue for 2024. Revenue of $5,464 million for 2023 increased 1 percent compared to 2022. Foreign currency movements had an unfavorable impact of 2 percentage points on the revenue growth for 2023 compared to 2022. A revenue increase in EISG was partially offset by a decline in CSG. Revenue from CSG and EISG represented approximately 67 percent and 33 percent, respectively, of total revenue for 2023. Net income was $614 million, $1,057 million, and $1,124 million in 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Net income of $614 million for 2024 decreased 42 percent compared to 2023, primarily driven by lower revenue, higher acquisition and integration costs, restructuring costs and amortization of acquisition-related balances, partially offset by lower provision for income taxes, favorable gross margin impact from the ESI Group acquisition and lower people-related costs. Net income of $1,057 million for 2023 decreased 6 percent compared to 2022, primarily driven by higher income tax expense, R&D expense, and selling, general and administrative expense, partially offset by higher interest income, higher revenue, and favorable mix. Cash flows generated from operating activities were $1,052 million, $1,408 million, and $1,144 million in 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively. Outlook Our first-to-market solutions strategy enables customers to develop new technologies and accelerate innovation and provides a platform for Keysight's long-term growth. Our customers are expected to continue to make R&D investments in certain next-generation technologies and applications, including evolution of 5G, early 6G, high-speed data center networks and infrastructure, satellite networks, Artificial Intelligence (“AI”), next generation electric vehicles and autonomous vehicles, industrial internet of things (“IoT”), and defense modernization. We continue to engage actively with our customers, and closely monitor the current macroeconomic environment, including trade, tariffs, monetary and fiscal policies and geopolitical tensions. We remain confident in the long-term secular growth trends of our markets and our ability to outperform in a variety of market conditions. Currency Exchange Rate Exposure Our revenues, costs and expenses, and monetary assets and liabilities are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates as a result of our global operating, investing and financing activities. We hedge revenues, expenses, and balance sheet exposures that are not denominated in the functional currencies of our subsidiaries on a short-term and anticipated basis. The result of hedging has been included in our consolidated balance sheet and consolidated statement of operations. We experience some fluctuations within individual lines of the consolidated balance sheet and consolidated statement of operations because our hedging program is not designed to offset the currency movements in each category of revenues, expenses, and monetary assets and liabilities. Our cash flow hedging program is designed to hedge short-term currency movements based on a rolling period of up to twelve months. Therefore, we are exposed to currency fluctuations over the longer term. To the extent that we are required to pay for all, or portions, of an acquisition price in foreign currencies, we may enter into foreign exchange contracts to reduce the risk that currency movements will impact the U.S. dollar cost of the transaction. 36 Results from Operations - Years ended October 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022 A summary of our results is as follows: Revenue Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of the promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for those products or services. Returns are recorded in the period received from the customer and historically have not been material. The following table provides the percent change in revenue for 2024 and 2023 by geographic region and the impact of foreign currency movements compared to the respective prior year. Gross Margin, Operating Margin and Income Before Taxes Gross margin decreased 2 percentage points in 2024 compared to 2023, primarily driven by lower revenue volume, higher amortization of acquisition-related balances and higher restructuring costs , partially offset by lower material costs, favorable gross margin impact from the ESI Group acquisition a nd lower variable people-related costs. Gross margin increased 1 percentage point in 2023 compared to 2022, primarily driven by price increases and favorable mix, partially offset by higher warranty costs. 37 Excess and obsolete inventory charges were $35 million in 2024, $27 million in 2023, and $27 million in 2022. R&D expense increased 4 percent in 2024 compared to 2023, primarily driven by incremental costs from acquired businesses, parti ally offset by lower variable people-related costs. We continued to prudently prioritize investments in key growth opportunities in our end markets and leading-edge technologies. R&D expense increased 5 percent in 2023 compared to 2022, primarily driven by investments in key growth opportunities, partially offset by lower variable people-related costs. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 7 percent in 2024 compared to 2023, primarily driven by higher acquisition and integration costs, incremental costs from acquired businesses, higher amortization of acquisition-related balances, partially offset by lower people-related, marketing, and infrastructure costs resulting from the flexibility of our operating model and cost efficiency measures. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 2 percent in 2023 compared to 2022, primarily driven by higher infrastructure-related, restructuring, and travel-related costs, partially offset by lower sales commission and variable people-related costs. Other operating expense (income) was income of $14 million, $15 million, and $8 million for 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively, and primarily include property rental income. During fiscal year 2022, other operating expense (income) included asset impairment charges of $7 million related to the discontinuance of our Russia operations. Operating margin decreased 8 percentage points in 2024 compared to 2023, primarily driven by higher selling, general and administrative and R&D expenses on lower revenue coupled with gross margin declines. Operating margin was flat in 2023 compared to 2022, primarily driven by gross margin gains offset by higher R&D expenses as a percentage of sales. Interest income for 2024, 2023 and 2022 was $81 million, $102 million, and $16 million, respectively, and primarily related to interest earned on our cash balances. The decline in interest income in fiscal 2024 compared to 2023 was primarily driven by decline in year-over-year cash balances. The increase in interest income in fiscal 2023 compared to 2022 was primarily driven by an increase in interest rates and higher year-over-year cash balances. Interest expense for 2024, 2023 and 2022 was $84 million, $78 million, and $79 million, respectively, and primarily related to interest on our senior notes. Interest expense for 2024, included amortization of debt issuance costs of $4 million related to the bridge credit agreement. See Note 9, “Derivatives,” and Note 11,”Debt,” for additional information. Other income (expense) for 2024, 2023 and 2022 was income of $35 million, expense of $25 million, and income of $14 million, respectively, and primarily include net income related to our defined benefit and post-retirement benefit plans (interest cost, expected return on assets, amortization of net actuarial loss and prior service credits, and gains (losses) on settlements and curtailments), gains (losses) due to currency and derivative instruments, and the change in fair value of our equity investments. The increase in net other income for 2024 compared to 2023 was primarily driven by gains on derivative instruments and higher net gains on our equity investments, partially offset by an increase in pension costs due to higher interest cost on benefit obligations. The increase in net other expense for 2023 compared to 2022 was primarily driven by losses on derivative instruments and higher amortization of net actuarial losses, partially offset by net gains on our equity investments. Our headcount was approximately 15,500 as of October 31, 2024, compared to approximately 14,900 as of October 31, 2023. The increase was primarily driven by acquisitions, partially offset by reductions from our cost efficiency measures. Income Taxes The effective tax rate was 29 percent, 22 percent, and 13 percent for 2024, 2023 and 2022, respectively. The tax rate in 2024 was higher than the U.S. statutory rate primarily due to a one-time income tax charge of $315 million required to adjust Singapore deferred tax asset values to an incentive tax rate. Keysight entered into a new Singapore tax incentive agreement effective August 1, 2024. The Singapore tax incentive provides lower rates of taxation on certain classes of income and requires thresholds of investments and employment. The 2024 income tax charge was partially offset by a one-time income tax benefit of $165 million related to Global Intangible Low Taxed Income (“GILTI”) tax deductions for intangible asset amortization. Keysight concluded that the U.S. Department of the Treasury exceeded its regulatory authority in issuing tax regulations disallowing these deductions under IRC § 951A. The company amended its U.S. federal income tax returns for the open tax years to claim GILTI tax deductions. The 38 tax receivable resulting from the amended returns is reflected in “other assets” and “other current assets” in the consolidated balance sheet. The annual tax impact of the amortization of the intangible assets will continue to be recognized until 2033. The company believes the position meets the more likely than not recognition threshold and intends to vigorously defend its position. The outcome cannot be predicted with certainty. If we are ultimately unsuccessful in defending our position, we may be required to reverse the benefit previously recorded. The 2024 income tax charge was also partially offset by a one-time income tax benefit of $61 million for the release of tax reserves related to the successful appeal of a Malaysia income tax assessment. In the fourth quarter of 2017, Keysight was assessed and paid income tax and penalties in Malaysia on gains related to the transfer of intellectual property rights and recorded a tax reserve on the assessed amount. The Court of Appeal in Malaysia ruled in Keysight’s favor on May 24, 2024, and the company received a refund of the income tax and penalties. The 7 percentage point increase in the effective tax rate from 2023 to 2024 was primarily due to these one-time income tax items in 2024. The tax rate in 2023 was higher than the U.S. statutory rate primarily due to the impact of U.S. tax capitalization of research and experimental expenditures, partially offset by the net impact from the proportion of worldwide earnings taxed at lower statutory tax rates in non-U.S. jurisdictions and the U.S. tax imposed on those non-U.S. earnings. The tax rate in 2022 was lower than the U.S. statutory rate primarily due to the proportion of worldwide earnings that are taxed at lower statutory tax rates in non-U.S. jurisdictions, partially offset by U.S. tax imposed on earnings in non-U.S. jurisdictions. The increase in the effective tax rate of 9 percent from 2022 to 2023 was primarily due to a 5 percent increase from U.S. tax capitalization of research and experimental expenditures in 2023. Keysight benefits from tax incentives in several jurisdictions, most significantly in Singapore and Malaysia. The tax incentives provide lower rates of taxation on certain classes of income and require thresholds of investments and employment in those jurisdictions. The Malaysia tax incentive expires October 31, 2025. The Singapore tax incentive expires July 31, 2029. The open tax years for the U.S. federal income tax return and most state income tax returns are from November 1, 2019 through the current tax year. For the majority of our non-U.S. entities, the open tax years are from November 1, 2019 through the current tax year. At this time, management does not believe that the outcome of any future or currently ongoing examination will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. We believe that we have an adequate provision for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. However, the outcome of tax examinations cannot be predicted with certainty. Given the numerous tax years and matters that remain subject to examination in various tax jurisdictions, the ultimate resolution of current and future tax examinations could be inconsistent with management’s current expectations. If that were to occur, it could have an impact on our effective tax rate in the period in which such examinations are resolved. The calculation of our tax liabilities involves uncertainties in the application of complex tax law and regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions. Although the guidance on the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes prescribes the use of a recognition and measurement model, the determination of whether an uncertain tax position has met those thresholds requires significant judgment by management. In accordance with the guidance on the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes, for all U.S. and other tax jurisdictions, we recognize potential liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes and interest will be due. We include interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax positions within the provision for income taxes in the consolidated statements of operations. Accrued interest and penalties are included on the related tax liability line in the consolidated balance sheet. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and various other countries globally. Changes in tax law, tax rates, or in the composition of earnings in countries with differing tax rates may affect deferred tax assets and liabilities recorded and our future effective tax rate. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (“OECD”) reached agreement among various countries to implement a minimum 15 percent tax rate on certain multinational enterprises, commonly referred to as Pillar Two. Numerous countries have enacted legislation to adopt the Pillar Two model rules. A subset of the rules will be effective for Keysight as of November 1, 2024, with the remaining rules effective as of November 1, 2025. Keysight continues to analyze the Pillar Two model rules and monitor developments. Pillar Two could have a material impact on our effective tax rate in fiscal year 2025, primarily offsetting the reduction to our effective income tax rate from our tax incentives. We do not recognize deferred taxes for temporary differences expected to impact the GILTI tax expense in future years. We recognize the tax expense related to GILTI in each year in which the tax is incurred. 39 Segment Overview We have two reportable operating segments, CSG and EISG. The profitability of each of the segments is measured after excluding share-based compensation expense, amortization of acquisition-related balances, acquisition and integration costs, restructuring costs, interest income, interest expense and other items. Communications Solutions Group (“CSG”) CSG serves customers spanning the global commercial communications and aerospace, defense, and government end markets. The group’s solutions consist of electronic design and test software, instrumentation, systems, and related services. These solutions are used in the simulation, design, validation, manufacturing, installation, and optimization of communication systems in wireless, wireline, enterprise, and aerospace, defense, and government end markets. In addition, the group provides automated software test solutions to automatically identify, build, and execute tests critical to digital business success and a strong customer experience. Revenue Revenue for CSG in 2024 decreased 7 percent compared to 2023. Acquisitions had a favorable impact of 1 percentage point on the year-over-year revenue change. Foreign currency movements had an immaterial impact on the year-over-year revenue change. Revenue declined across all regions and in both the commercial communications and the aerospace, defense, and government end markets. The decline was driven primarily by lower customer demand as compared to last year, which benefited from robust backlog conversion. Our customers continued to make R&D investments in next-generation technologies and applications, including AI-driven data center expansion, ongoing 5G standards development and deployment, 400G/800G/terabit Ethernet, development of new communications technologies (e.g., 6G, Open Radio Access Networks, commercial non-terrestrial networks, and quantum), high-speed networking and major defense and government programs worldwide . CSG revenue for 2023 decreased 3 percent compared to 2022. Foreign currency movements had an unfavorable impact of 2 percentage points on year-over-year revenue change. Revenue declined in Asia Pacific and the Americas were partially offset by an increase in Europe. A revenue decline in the commercial communications end market was partially offset by growth in the aerospace, defense, and government end market. Revenue from the commercial communications market represented approximately 66 percent of total CSG revenue in 2024 and decreased 7 percent compared to 2023. Revenue declined across all regions. T he year-over-year decline in revenue was primarily driven by continued weakness in the wireless communications ecosystem, particularly smartphones, partially offset by higher investments in AI Workload Emulation tools and infrastructure solutions. We continued to see investments in high-speed networks due to increasing need for AI capabilities in the data center infrastructure ecosystem, which was driving demand for our 400G/800G/terabit Ethernet solutions, both in R&D and manufacturing. Revenue from the commercial communications market represented approximately 66 percent of total CSG revenue in 2023 and decreased 7 percent compared to 2022. Revenue declined in Asia Pacific and the Americas was partially offset by a slight increase in Europe. Revenue from the aerospace, defense, and government market represented approximately 34 percent of total CSG revenue in 2024 and decreased 8 percent compared to 2023. Revenue declines in Asia Pacific and the Americas were partially offset by an increase in Europe. We continue to see investments in electromagnetic spectrum operations, radar, space and satellite solutions, and signal monitoring. Revenue from the aerospace, defense, and government market represented approximately 34 percent of total CSG revenue in 2023 and increased 7 percent compared to 2022. Revenue grew across all regions. 40 Gross Margin and Operating Margin Gross margin for CSG in 2024 was flat compared to 2023, as lower revenue volume was offset by lower material and variable people-related costs . Gross margin for CSG in 2023 increased 1 percentage point compared to 2022, primarily driven by price increases and favorable mix, partially offset by higher warranty costs. R&D expense in 2024 was flat compared to 2023, as incremental costs of acquired businesses were offset by lower variable people-related costs. We continued to prudently prioritize investments in key growth opportunities in our end markets and leading-edge technologies. R&D expense in 2023 increased 2 percent compared to 2022, primarily driven by continued investments in key growth opportunities, partially offset by lower variable people-related costs. Selling, general and administrative expense in 2024 decrea sed 4 perce nt compared to 2023, primarily driven by lower people-related, marketing and infrastructure costs resulting from the flexibility of our operating model and cost efficiency measures, partially offset by incremental costs of acquired businesses. Selling, general and administrative expense in 2023 decreased 3 percent compared to 2022, primarily driven by lower sales commission and variable people-related costs, partially offset by higher travel-related costs. Other operating expense (income), net, was income of $10 million in 2024, $11 million in 2023, and $11 million in 2022, and primarily include property rental income. Operating margin in 2024 decreased 2 percentage points compared to 2023, primarily driven by higher R&D and selling, general and administrative expenses on lower revenue. Operating margin in 2023 increased 1 percentage point compared to 2022, primarily driven by gross margin gains offset by higher R&D expenses as a percentage of sales. Electronic Industrial Solutions Group (“EISG”) EISG serves customers across a diverse set of end markets focused on automotive and energy, semiconductor solutions, and general electronics. The group’s solutions consist of electronic design, test and simulation software, instrumentation, systems, and related services. These solutions are used in the simulation, design, validation, manufacturing, installation, and optimization of electronic equipment. In addition, the group provides automated software test solutions to automatically identify, build, and execute tests critical to digital business success and a strong customer experience. Our recent acquisition of ESI Group expands our application layer portfolio with simulation capabilities in automotive and general electronics sectors. Revenue Revenue for EISG in 2024 decreased 12 percent compared to 2023. Acquisitions had a favorable impact of 7 percentage points on the year-over-year revenue change. Foreign currency movements had an unfavorable impact of 1 percentage point on the year-over-year revenue change. Revenue declined across all regions and markets. The decline in revenue reflects the normalization in demand as macroeconomic challenges, such as inflation and high interest rates, continued to slow some investments, primarily in the manufacturing sector. Despite delays in near-term spending, customer engagement remained high as they continued to invest in key long-term strategic initiatives, such as AI-driven advanced semiconductor technologies, next-generation vehicles, industrial IoT and digital health. Revenue for EISG in 2023 increased 10 percent compared to 2022. 41 Foreign currency movements had an unfavorable impact of 2 percentage points on the year-over-year revenue change. Revenue grew across all regions and markets. Gross Margin and Operating Margin Gross margin for EISG in 2024 decreased 2 percentage points compared to 2023, primarily driven by lower revenue volume, partially offset by favorable gross margin impact from the ESI Group acquisition and lower variable people-related costs . Gross margi n in 2023 was flat compared to 2022, primarily driven by higher revenue volume and favorable mix, partially offset by higher warranty costs. R&D expense in 2024 increased 13 percent compared to 2023, primarily driven by incremental costs from acquired businesses, partially offset by lower variable people-related costs. We continued to prudently prioritize investments in key growth opportunities in our end markets and leading-edge technologies. R&D expense in 2023 increased 8 percent compared to 2022, primarily driven by continued investments in key growth opportunities, partially offset by lower variable people-related costs. Selling, general and administrative expense in 2024 increased 9 percent compared to 2023, primarily driven by incremental costs from acquired businesses, partially offset by lower people-related and infrastructure costs resulting from the flexibility of our operating model and cost efficiency measures. Selling, general and administrative expense in 2023 increased 4 percent compared to 2022, primarily driven by higher sales commission and travel-related costs, partially offset by lower variable people-related costs. Other operating expense (income), net, was income of $4 million in 2024, 2023 and 2022, and primarily include property rental income. Operating margin in 2024 decreased 10 percentage points compared to 2023, primarily driven by higher selling, general and administrative expense and R&D expense on lower revenue, coupled with gross margin declines. Operating margin in 2023 increased 2 percentage points compared to 2022, primarily driven by lower operating expenses as a percentage of sales. Financial Condition Liquidity and Capital Resources Our liquidity is affected by many factors, including normal ongoing operations of our business and fluctuations due to global economics and markets. Our cash balances are generated and held in many locations throughout the world. Under certain circumstances, U.S. and local government regulations may limit our ability to move cash balances to meet cash needs. Overview of Cash Flows Our key cash flow activities were as follows: 42 Operating Activities Cash flows from operating activities can fluctuate significantly from period to period as working capital needs, the timing of payments for income taxes, variable pay, pension funding, and other items impact reported cash flows. Net cash provided by operating activities decreased $356 million in 2024 compared to 2023 and increased $264 million in 2023 compared to 2022. •    Net income in 2024 decreased $443 million compared to 2023. Non-cash adjustments to net income were higher by $339 million, primarily due to a $271 million increase in deferred tax expense resulting from a one-time income tax charge of $315 million to decrease deferred tax asset values from the Singapore statutory tax rate to an incentive tax rate (see Note 5, “Income Taxes,” for additional information), a $58 million increase in amortization and depreciation expense, a $8 million increase in excess and obsolete inventory related charges, and a $2 million increase in share-based compensation. Net income in 2023 decreased $67 million compared to 2022. Non-cash adjustments to net income were lower by $54 million, primarily due to a $36 million increase in unrealized gains on equity and other investments, a $14 million decrease in amortization, a $10 million increase in deferred tax benefit, and a $7 million decrease in other non-cash adjustments, which was primarily driven by prior year one-time asset impairment charges related to the discontinuance of our Russia operations, partially offset by a $10 million increase in share-based compensation, and a $3 million increase in depreciation expense. •    The aggregate of accounts receivable, inventory, and accounts payable provided net cash of $48 million during 2024, compared to net cash used of $196 million in 2023 and $273 million in 2022. The increase in aggregate net cash provided in 2024 compared to 2023 is primarily driven by a lower increase in inventory, lower payments, and timing of collections relative to revenue. The decrease in aggregate net cash used in 2023 compared to 2022 is primarily driven by higher collections, net of payments, partially offset by an increase in inventory driven by an incremental stock build-up to secure supply to support order fulfillment along with an increase in demo inventory. The amount of cash flow generated from or used by the aggregate of accounts receivable, inventory, and accounts payable depends on the cash conversion cycle, which represents the number of days that elapse from the day we pay for the purchase of raw materials and components to the collection of cash from our customers and can be significantly impacted by the timing of shipments and purchases, as well as collections and payments in a period. • The aggregate of tax receivables used net cash of $202 million during 2024, compared to net cash used of $4 million in 2023 and $30 million in 2022. In fiscal 2024 tax receivables are higher primarily due to the recognition of a discrete tax benefit of $165 million recorded as a current and long-term tax receivable in the consolidated balance sheet related to the U.S. intangible asset amortization deduction for purposes of determining income or loss under IRC § 951A(c) and the amendment of our U.S. federal income tax returns for the open tax years to claim the deduction. See Note 5, “Income Taxes,” for additional information. • During the year ended October 31, 2023, we terminated forward-starting interest rate swap agreements resulting in proceeds of $107 million. See Note 9, “Derivatives,” for additional information. • The aggregate other movements in assets and liabilities used net cash of $117 million during 2024, compared to net cash provided of $74 million in 2023 and net cash used of $101 million in 2022. The difference between 2024 and 2023 cash flows was primarily due to payments on settlement of foreign exchange forward contracts associated with the ESI Group acquisition, net unrealized gains on foreign exchange contracts not designated as hedging instruments, (see Note 9, “Derivatives”), changes in deferred revenue, and changes in other assets and liabilities, partially offset by higher income and other tax accruals, net of payments, lower variable compensation, and payroll-related payments, net of accruals. The difference between 2023 and 2022 cash flows is primarily due to lower prepaid inventory deposits driven by easing of supply chain constraints and other lower prepaid expenses, unrealized loss on foreign exchange contracts not designated as hedging instruments, and changes in other assets and liabilities, partially offset by higher income tax payments, net of accruals, higher variable compensation and other payroll-related payments, net of accruals, and changes in deferred revenue. 43 Investing Activities Net cash changes in investing activities primarily relates to investments in property, plant and equipment and acquisitions of businesses to support our growth. Net cash used in investing activities increased by $531 million in 2024 compared to 2023 and increased by $37 million in 2023 compared to 2022. The increase in net cash used in investing activities in 2024 as compared to 2023 was primarily due to $596 million higher cash used for acquisition activities, partially offset by a $49 million decrease in cash used for purchases of property, plant and equipment, net of government incentives received. In 2024, we used $681 million, net of cash acquired, for acquisitions, which included $477 million, net of $35 million cash acquired, for the acquisition of the controlling block of ESI Group shares. Additionally, we used $147 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment, net of $7 million of government incentives and $11 million for equity and other investments, partially offset by $20 million provided by other investing activities. In 2023, we used $288 million for investing activities, including $196 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment, net of government incentives; $85 million, net of cash acquired, for acquisition activities; and $7 million for purchase of investments. In 2022, we used $251 million for investing activities, including $185 million for purchases of property, plant and equipment; $33 million, net of cash acquired, for acquisition activities; and $33 million for purchase of investments. Financing Activities Our financing activities primarily include proceeds from issuance of common stock under employee stock plans, tax payments related to net share settlement of equity awards, issuances and repayment of debt and related costs, treasury stock repurchases, and transactions with non-controlling interests in partially-owned consolidated subsidiaries. Net cash used in financing activities increased by $226 million in 2024 compared to 2023, and decreased by $174 million in 2023 compared to 2022. The increase in net cash used in 2024 compared to 2023 was primarily due to $458 million used for the acquisition of the non-controlling interest in ESI Group, partially offset by $259 million lower treasury stock repurchases. In 2024, we used $913 million for financing activities, including $600 million used for repayment of the 2024 Senior Notes, $458 million used for the acquisition of the non-controlling interest in ESI Group, $443 million used for treasury stock repurchases, including payment of $4 million for excise taxes levied on share repurchases, $31 million for tax payments related to net share settlement of equity awards, $24 million used for repayment of debt assumed as part of the ESI Group acquisition, $12 million used for payment of debt issuance costs, and $10 million used for other financing activities, partially offset by $599 million of proceeds from the issuance of the 2034 Senior Notes, and $66 million of proceeds from issuance of common stock under employee stock plans. In 2023, we used $687 million for financing activities, including $702 million for treasury stock repurchases and $49 million for tax payments related to net share settlement of equity awards, partially offset by $67 million of proceeds from issuance of common stock under employee stock plans. In 2022, we used $861 million for financing activities, including $849 million for treasury stock repurchases and $74 million for tax payments related to net share settlement of equity awards, partially offset by $63 million of proceeds from issuance of common stock under employee stock plans. Treasury stock repurchases On March 6, 2023, our board of directors approved a new stock repurchase program authorizing the purchase of up to $1,500 million of the company’s common stock, of which $485 million remained as of October 31, 2024. The stock repurchase program may be commenced, suspended or discontinued at any time at the company’s discretion and does not have an expiration date. See “Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities” under Part II Item 5 for additional information. 44 Debt Total Debt 2024 Senior Notes In October 2014, the company issued an aggregate principal amount of $ 600 million in unsecured senior notes (“2024 Senior Notes”). These notes matured on October 30, 2024 and were fully repaid. 2027 Senior Notes In April 2017, the company issued an aggregate principal amount of $ 700 million in unsecured senior notes (“2027 Senior Notes”). The 2027 Senior Notes were issued at 99.873 percent of their principal amount. The notes will mature on April 6, 2027 and bear interest at a fixed rate of 4.60 percent per annum. The interest is payable semi-annually on April 6 and October 6, commencing on October 6, 2017. We incurred issuance costs of $ 6 million in connection with the 2027 Senior Notes that, along with the debt discount, are being amortized to interest expense over the term of the senior notes. 2029 Senior Notes In October 2019, the company issued an aggregate principal amount of $ 500 million in unsecured senior notes (“2029 Senior Notes”). The 2029 Senior Notes were issued at 99.914 percent of their principal amount. The notes will mature on October 30, 2029 and bear interest at a fixed rate of 3.00 percent per annum. The interest is payable semi-annually on April 30 and October 30, commencing on April 30, 2020. We incurred issuance costs of $ 4 million in connection with the 2029 Senior Notes that, along with the debt discount, are being amortized to interest expense over the term of the senior notes. 2034 Senior Notes In October 2024, the company issued an aggregate principal amount of $ 600 million in unsecured senior notes (“2034 Senior Notes”). The 2034 Senior Notes were issued at 99.897 percent of their principal amount. The notes will mature on October 15, 2034 and bear interest at a fixed rate of 4.95 percent per annum. The interest is payable semi-annually on April 15 and October 15, commencing on April 15, 2025. We incurred issuance costs of $ 6 million in connection with the 2034 Senior Notes that, along with the debt discount, are being amortized to interest expense over the term of the senior notes. The above senior notes are unsecured and rank equally in right of payment with all of our other senior unsecured indebtedness. We were in compliance with the covenants of our senior notes during the year ended October 31, 2024. Revolving Credit Facility On July 30, 2021, we entered into an amended and restated credit agreement (the “Revolving Credit Facility”), which provides a $750 million five-year unsecured revolving credit facility that expires on July 30, 2026 with an annual interest rate of LIBOR + 1 percent along with a facility fee of 0.125 percent per annum. On February 17, 2023, we entered into the first amendment to the Revolving Credit Facility to change the annual interest rate from LIBOR + 1 percent to SOFR + 1.1 percent. In addition, the Revolving Credit Facility permits the company, subject to certain customary conditions, on one or more occasions to request to increase the total commitments under the Revolving Credit Facility by up to $250 million in the aggregate. We may use amounts borrowed under the Revolving Credit Facility for general corporate purposes. As of October 31, 2024 and 2023, we had no borrowings outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility. We were in compliance with the covenants of the Revolving Credit Facility during the year ended October 31, 2024. See Note 11, “Debt,” for additional information. Bridge Facility On March 28, 2024, we entered into a bridge credit agreement (the “Bridge Facility”) pursuant to which certain lenders agreed to provide a senior unsecured 364-day bridge credit facility of up to 1,350 million pounds sterling for the purpose of providing the financing to support a planned acquisition. On July 25, 2024, the Bridge Facility was decreased to 1,232 million 45 pounds sterling. We incurred costs in connection with the Bridge Facility of $7 million that are included in “other current assets” in the consolidated balance sheet and are being amortized to interest expense over the term of the Bridge Facility. ESI Group debt and credit facility assumed As part of the ESI Group acquisition, we assumed debt of $24 million, of which $10 million was payable within one year. The debt included a syndicated loan of $11 million payable through yearly installments until April 2025 with an annual interest rate of EURIBOR + 2 to 2.5 percent. We also assumed various fixed interest rate state-guaranteed loans and other bank borrowings of $13 million. During the year ended October 31, 2024, we repaid the debt assumed as part of the acquisition. As part of the ESI Group acquisition, we assumed a revolving credit facility of 10 million euros that was subsequently terminated in April 2024. See Note 11, “Debt,” for additional information. Cash and cash requirements Cash Our cash and cash equivalents mainly consist of investments in institutional money market funds, short-term deposits held at major global financial institutions, and similar short duration instruments with original maturities of three months or less. We continuously monitor the creditworthiness of the financial institutions and money market fund asset managers with whom we invest our funds. We utilize a variety of funding strategies in an effort to ensure that our worldwide cash is available in the locations in which it is needed. Most significant international locations have access to internal funding through an offshore cash pool for working capital needs. In addition, a few locations that are unable to access internal funding have access to temporary local overdraft and short-term working capital lines of credit. Cash requirements We have cash requirements to support working capital needs, capital expenditures, business acquisitions, contractual obligations, commitments, principal and interest payments on debt, and other liquidity requirements associated with our operations. W e generally intend to use available cash and funds generated from our operations to meet these cash requirements, but in the event that additional liquidity is required, we may also borrow under our Revolving Credit Facility. On March 28, 2024, we announced our intention to acquire the entire share capital of Spirent Communications PLC (“Spirent”) for cash consideration of 199 pence per Spirent share, which reflects a valuation of $1,463 million on a fully diluted basis. Spirent shareholders will also be entitled to receive a special dividend of 2.5 pence per Spirent share, in lieu of any final dividend for the year ended December 31, 2023 (together with the cash consideration of 199 pence per share). The acquisition is expected to be completed during the first half of fiscal year 2025, pending regulatory clearances. On September 19, 2024, Keysight announced that it had entered into a definitive agreement with Synopsys, Inc. (“Synopsys”) to acquire Synopsys’ Optical Solutions Group, a leading developer of optical design and analysis software tools. The transaction is subject to customary closing conditions, including review by regulatory authorities and the successful closing of Synopsys’ proposed acquisition of Ansys, which is pending regulatory approvals and is expected to close in the first half of 2025. 46 The following table summarizes our short and long-term cash requirements as of October 31, 2024: Senior notes obligations and interest payments on senior notes. We have contractual obligations for principal and interest payments on our senior notes. See Note 11, “Debt,” for additional information. Operating lease commitments. Commitments under operating leases primarily relates to leasehold properties. See Note 10, “Leases,” for additional information. Commitments to contract manufacturers and suppliers. We purchase components from a variety of suppliers and use several contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for our products. See Note 14, “Commitments and Contingencies,” for additional information. As of October 31, 2024, we had non-cancellable purchase commitments that aggregated $423 million, of which the majority is for less than one year. Other purchase commitments. Other purchase commitments primarily relate to software as a service and other professional services contracts. We also have long-term power purchase agreements to purchase power at predominantly variable prices. These agreements are expected to support our power consumption needs with more favorable pricing and reliability than our previous supply agreements. See Note 14, “Commitments and Contingencies,” for additional information. Other liabilities. Other liabilities primarily include contract liabilities, net pension and post-retirement benefit obligations, employee compensation and benefits, net tax liabilities, standard warranties and other accrued liabilities. The timing of cash flows associated with these obligations is based on management’s estimates over the terms of these arrangements and is largely based on historical experience. Of the tax liabilities included in the above table, $20 million relates to a U.S. transition tax liability and $200 million for uncertain tax positions. The remaining U.S. transition tax liability, which Keysight originally elected to pay over 8 years, is payable over the next 3 years and relates to a one-time U.S. tax on those earnings that had not been previously repatriated to the U.S. With regard to the $200 million of long-term liabilities for uncertain tax positions, we are unable to accurately predict when these amounts will be realized or released. We believe that we have an adequate provision for any adjustments that may result from tax examinations. However, the outcome of tax examinations cannot be predicted with certainty. Given the numerous tax years and matters that remain subject to examination in various tax jurisdictions, the ultimate resolution of current and future tax examinations could be inconsistent with management’s current expectations. See Note 5, “Income Taxes,” for additional information. In addition to the obligations noted above, as of October 31, 2024, we had $43 million of outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds that were issued by various lenders. For the next twelve months, we do not expect to contribute to our U.S. defined benefit plan and U.S. post-retirement benefit plan, and we expect to contribute $13 million to our non-U.S. defined benefit plans. The ultimate amounts we may contribute depend on, among other things, legal requirements, underlying asset returns, the plan’s funded status, the anticipated tax deductibility of the contribution, local practices, market conditions, interest rates, and other factors. See Note 12, “Retirement Plans and Post-Retirement Benefit Plans,” for additional information. Additionally, we expect capital spending to be approximately $150 million in 2025, compared to $147 million in 2024. As of October 31, 2024, we believe our cash and cash equivalents, cash generated from operations, and our ability to access capital markets and credit lines will satisfy our cash needs for the foreseeable future both globally and domestically. 47 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions believed to be reasonable. Although these estimates are based on management's best knowledge of current events and actions that may impact the company in the future, actual results may be different from the estimates. We are not aware of any specific event or circumstance that would require an update to our estimates or judgments or a revision of the carrying value of our assets or liabilities as of October 31, 2024. An accounting policy is deemed to be critical if it requires an accounting estimate to be made based on assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time the estimate is made, and if different estimates that reasonably could have been used, or changes in the accounting estimate that are reasonably likely to occur could materially change the financial statements. Our critical accounting policies are those that affect our financial statements materially and involve difficult, subjective, or complex judgments by management. Those policies are revenue recognition, inventory valuation, share-based compensation, retirement and post-retirement plan assumptions, business combinations, valuation of goodwill and other intangible assets, warranty, loss contingencies, restructuring, and accounting for income taxes. Revenue recognition. Revenue is recognized upon transfer of control of the promised products or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration we expect to receive in exchange for those products or services. We primarily generate revenue from the sale of products (hardware and/or software), services, or a combination thereof. We enter into contracts that may involve multiple performance obligations, and we allocate the transaction price between each performance obligation on the basis of relative standalone selling price (“SSP”). We recognize revenue following a five-step model. 1. Identify the contract with a customer: Generally, we consider customer purchase orders, which in some cases are governed by master sales or other purchase agreements, to be the customer contract. All of the following criteria must be met before we consider an agreement to qualify as a contract with a customer under the revenue standard: (i) it must be approved by all parties; (ii) each party’s rights regarding the goods and services to be transferred can be identified; (iii) the payment terms for the goods and services can be identified; (iv) the agreement has commercial substance; and, (v) the customer has the ability and intent to pay and collection of substantially all of the consideration is probable. We exercise reasonable judgment to determine the customer’s ability and intent to pay, which is based upon various factors including the customer’s historical payment experience or credit and financial information and credit risk management measures that we implement. 2. Identify the performance obligations in the contract: We assess whether each promised good or service is distinct for the purpose of identifying the various performance obligations in each contract. Promised goods and services are considered distinct provided that: (i) the customer can benefit from the good or service either on its own or together with other resources that are readily available to the customer; and, (ii) our promise to transfer the good or service to the customer is separately identifiable or distinct from other promises in the contract. 3. Determine the transaction price: Transaction price reflects the amount of consideration to which we expect to be entitled in exchange for transferring goods or services. Our contracts may include terms that could cause variability in the transaction price including rebates, rights of return, trade-in credits, and discounts. Variable consideration is generally accounted for at the portfolio level and estimated based on historical information. 4. Allocate the transaction price to performance obligations in the contract: If the contract contains a single performance obligation, the entire transaction price is allocated to that performance obligation. Many of our contracts include multiple performance obligations with a combination of distinct products and services, maintenance and support, professional services and/or training. For contracts with multiple performance obligations, we allocate the total transaction value to each distinct performance obligation based on relative SSP. Judgment is required to determine the SSP for each distinct performance obligation. The best evidence of SSP is the observable price of a good or service when we sell that good or service separately under similar circumstances to similar customers. Since most contracts contain multiple performance obligations, we use information that may include market conditions and other observable inputs to estimate SSP when we do not have standalone transactions. 5. Recognize revenue when (or as) performance obligations are satisfied: Revenue is recognized at the point in time control is transferred to the customer. For hardware sales, transfer of control to the customer typically occurs at the point the product is shipped or delivered to the customer’s designated location. For software license sales, transfer of control to the customer typically occurs upon shipment, electronic delivery, or when the software is available for download by the customer. For sales of implementation service and custom solutions or in instances where products are sold along with essential installation services, transfer of control occurs and revenue is typically recognized upon customer acceptance. For fixed-price support and extended warranty contracts, or certain software arrangements that 48 provide customers with a right to access over a discrete period, control is deemed to transfer over time and revenue is recognized on a straight-line basis over the contract term due to the stand-ready nature of the performance obligation. Revenue from hardware repairs and calibration services outside of an extended warranty or support contract is recognized at the time of completion of the related service. For other professional services or time-based labor contracts, revenue is recognized as we perform the services and the customer receives and/or consume the benefits. Inventory valuation. We assess the valuation of our inventory periodically and adjust the value for estimated excess and obsolete inventory based on future demand and actual usage. The excess balance determined by this analysis serves as the basis for our excess inventory charge. Our excess inventory review process includes analyzing sales unit forecasts, managing product rollovers, and collaborating with manufacturing to maximize the recovery of excess inventory, taking actual market and economic conditions into consideration. Share-based compensation. We account for share-based awards in accordance with the provisions of the authoritative accounting guidance, which requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all share-based payment awards made to our employees and directors. Awards granted under the Long-Term Performance (“the LTP”) Program are based on a variety of targets, such as total shareholder return (“TSR”) or financial metrics such as operating margin. The awards based on TSR were valued using a Monte Carlo simulation model and those based on financial metrics were valued based on the market price of Keysight’s common stock on the date of grant. The compensation cost for financial metrics-based performance awards reflects the cost of awards that are probable to vest at the end of the performance period. The Monte Carlo simulation fair value model requires the use of highly subjective and complex assumptions, including the price volatility of the underlying stock. For additional information on valuation assumptions, see Note 4, “Share-Based Compensation.” The estimated fair value of restricted stock awards is determined based on the market price of Keysight’s common stock on the date of grant. We did not grant any option awards in 2024, 2023 and 2022. Retirement and post-retirement benefit plan assumptions. Retirement and post-retirement benefit plan costs are a significant cost of doing business. They represent obligations that will ultimately be settled sometime in the future and therefore are subject to estimation. Defined benefit plan obligations are remeasured at least annually as of October 31, based on the present value of future benefit payments to reflect the future benefit costs over the employees’ average expected future service to Keysight based on the terms of the plans. To estimate the present value of these future payments, we are required to make assumptions using actuarial concepts within the framework of generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. The discount rate is a critical assumption. Other important assumptions include expected long-term return on plan assets, expected future salary increases, expected future increases to benefit payments, expected retirement dates, employee turnover, retiree mortality rates and investment portfolio composition. We evaluate these assumptions at least annually. See Note 12, “Retirement Plans and Post-Retirement Benefit Plans.” The discount rate is used to determine the present value of future benefit payments at the measurement date, which is October 31 for both U.S. and non-U.S. plans. The U.S. discount rates as of October 31, 2024 and 2023 were determined based on the results of matching expected plan benefit payments with cash flows from a hypothetically constructed bond portfolio. The non-U.S. discount rates as of October 31, 2024 and 2023 were determined using spot rates along the yield curve to calculate disaggregated discount rates. In addition, we used this method to calculate two components of the periodic benefit cost: service cost and interest cost. If we changed our discount rate by 1 percent, the impact would be $6 million on U.S. net periodic benefit cost and $13 million on non-U.S. net periodic benefit cost. Lower discount rates increase the present value of the liability and subsequent year pension expense; higher discount rates decrease the present value of the liability and subsequent year pension expense. The company uses alternate methods of amortization, as allowed by the authoritative guidance, that amortizes the actuarial gains and losses on a consistent basis for the years presented. For U.S. plans, gains and losses are amortized over the average future working lifetime. For most non-U.S. plans and U.S. post-retirement benefit plans, gains and losses are amortized using a separate layer for each year’s gains and losses. The expected long-term return on plan assets is estimated using current and expected asset allocations as well as historical and expected returns. Plan assets are valued at fair value. If we changed our estimated return on assets by 1 percent, the impact would be $7 million on U.S. net periodic benefit cost and $8 million on non-U.S. net periodic benefit cost. Business combinations. Our methodology for allocating the purchase price relating to acquisitions is determined through established valuation techniques. We allocate the purchase price paid for assets acquired and liabilities assumed in connection with our acquisitions based on their estimated fair values at the time of acquisition, which involves a number of assumptions, estimates, and judgments, which are inherently uncertain and subject to refinement. We determine the estimated fair values with the assistance of valuations performed by third party specialists, discounted cash flow analysis, and estimates made by management. Our ability to realize the future cash flows used in our fair value estimates may be affected by changes in our financial condition, financial performance, or business strategies. Our assumptions and estimates are based upon comparable 49 market data and information obtained from our management and the management of the acquired companies. These assumptions and estimates are used to value assets acquired and liabilities assumed, and to allocate goodwill to the reporting units of the business that are expected to benefit from the business combination. During the measurement period, which may be up to one year from the business acquisition date, we may recognize adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed with the corresponding offset to goodwill. In addition, uncertain tax positions and tax-related valuation allowances are initially recorded in connection with a business combination as of the acquisition date. We continue to collect information and reevaluate these estimates and assumptions quarterly and record any adjustment to our preliminary estimates to goodwill provided that we are within the measurement period. Upon the conclusion of the measurement period or final determination of the fair value of assets acquired or liabilities assumed, whichever comes first, any subsequent adjustments are recorded to our consolidated statements of operations. Goodwill and other intangible assets. We review goodwill for impairment annually during our fourth fiscal quarter and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. As defined in the authoritative guidance, a reporting unit is an operating segment, or one level below an operating segment. At the time of an acquisition, we assign goodwill to the reporting unit that is expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination. Companies have the option to perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether performing a quantitative test is necessary. If an entity believes, as a result of its qualitative assessment, that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, the quantitative impairment test will be required. Otherwise, no further testing will be required. The quantitative impairment test involves a comparison of the estimated fair value of a reporting unit to its carrying amount, including goodwill. We determine the fair value of a reporting unit from the results derived using the market approach, when available and appropriate, or the income approach, or a combination of both. If multiple valuation methodologies are used, the results are weighted accordingly. The income approach is estimated through the discounted cash flow (“DCF”) analysis. Determining fair value requires the exercise of significant judgment, including judgments about appropriate discount rates, revenue growth rates, and the amount and timing of expected future cash flows. Discount rates are based on a weighted average cost of capital (“WACC”), which represents the average rate a business must pay its providers of debt and equity, plus a risk premium. The WACC used to test goodwill is derived from a group of comparable companies. The cash flows employed in the DCF analysis are derived from internal forecasts and external market forecasts. The market approach estimates the fair value of the reporting unit by utilizing the market comparable method, which is based on revenue and earnings multiples from comparable companies. If the estimated fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, goodwill of the reporting unit is not impaired. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its estimated fair value, then an impairment charge is recorded for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the reporting unit’s fair value up to a maximum amount of the goodwill balance for the reporting unit. During the fourth quarter of 2024, we performed our annual impairment test of goodwill for all our reporting units using a qualitative approach. Based on the results of our qualitative testing, we believe that it is more likely than not that the fair value of each reporting unit is greater than its respective carrying value. There were no impairments of goodwill during the years ended October 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022. Other intangible assets consist primarily of developed technologies, trademarks, customer relationships, non-compete agreements, and backlog and are amortized using the straight-line method over estimated useful lives ranging from 1 to 12 years. We review other intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in business circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be fully recoverable or that the useful lives of these assets are no longer appropriate. No impairments of amortizable intangible assets were recorded during the years ended October 31, 2024, 2023 and 2022. We review indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in business circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be fully recoverable or that the useful lives of these assets are no longer appropriate. The authoritative accounting guidance allows a qualitative approach for testing indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment, similar to the impairment testing guidance for goodwill. It allows the option to first assess qualitative factors (events and circumstances) that could have affected the significant inputs used in determining the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset. The qualitative factors assist in determining whether it is more likely than not that the indefinite-lived intangible asset is impaired. An organization may choose to bypass the qualitative assessment for any indefinite-lived intangible asset in any period and proceed directly to calculating its fair value. Our indefinite-lived intangible assets are generally in-process research and development (“IPR&D”) intangible assets. No impairments of indefinite-lived intangible assets were recorded in 2024. We had no IPR&D intangible assets as of October 31, 2023 and 2022. Warranty. Keysight warranties on products sold through direct sales channels are primarily for one year. Warranties for products sold through distribution channels are primarily for three years. We accrue for standard warranty costs based on 50 historical trends in warranty charges. The accrual is reviewed regularly and periodically adjusted to reflect changes in warranty cost estimates. Estimated warranty charges are recorded within “cost of products” at the time related product revenue is recognized. We also sell extended warranties that provide warranty coverage beyond the standard warranty term. Revenue associated with extended warranties is deferred and recognized over the extended coverage period. Loss Contingencies. As discussed in Note 14, “Commitments and Contingencies” to the consolidated financial statements, we are, from time to time, subject to a variety of litigation and similar contingent liabilities incidental to our business (or the business operations of previously owned entities). We recognize a liability for any contingency that is known or probable of occurrence and reasonably estimable. These assessments require judgments concerning matters such as litigation developments and outcomes, the anticipated outcome of negotiations, the number of future claims and the cost of both pending and future claims. In addition, because most contingencies are resolved over long periods of time, liabilities may change in the future due to various factors. Changes in these factors could materially impact our financial position or our results of operations. Restructuring. The main component of our existing restructuring plans is related to workforce reductions and site restructuring. Workforce reduction charges are accrued when payment of benefits becomes probable and the amounts can be estimated. If the amounts and timing of cash flows from restructuring activities are significantly different from what we have estimated, the actual amount of restructuring and other related charges could be materially different, either higher or lower, than those we have recorded. Accounting for income taxes. We must make certain estimates and judgments in determining income tax expense for financial statement purposes. These estimates and judgments occur in the calculation of tax benefits, credits and deductions, and in the calculation of certain tax assets and liabilities that arise from differences in the timing of recognition of revenue and expense for tax and financial statement purposes. Significant changes to these estimates may result in an increase or decrease to our tax provision in a subsequent period. Significant management judgment is also required in determining whether deferred tax assets will be realized in full or in part. When it is more likely than not that all or some portion of specific deferred tax assets such as net operating losses or foreign tax credit carryforwards will not be realized, a valuation allowance must be established for the amount of the deferred tax assets that cannot be realized. We consider all available positive and negative evidence on a jurisdiction-by-jurisdiction basis when assessing whether it is more likely than not that deferred tax assets are recoverable. We consider evidence such as our past operating results, the existence of losses in recent years and our forecast of future taxable income. As of October 31, 2024, the company maintains a valuation allowance mainly related to net operating losses in Luxembourg, capital losses and net operating losses in the U.K., and California research credits from acquired entities that are subject to change in ownership limitations. We intend to maintain a valuation allowance in these jurisdictions until sufficient positive evidence exists to support their reversal. The calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax law and regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions. Although the guidance on the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes prescribes the use of a recognition and measurement model, the determination of whether an uncertain tax position has met those thresholds will continue to require significant judgment by management. In accordance with the guidance on the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes, for all U.S. and other tax jurisdictions, we recognize potential liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes and interest will be due. The ultimate resolution of tax uncertainties may differ from what is currently estimated, which could result in a material impact on income tax expense. If our estimate of income tax liabilities proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, a further charge to expense would be required. If events occur and the payment of these amounts ultimately proves to be unnecessary, the reversal of the liabilities would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary. We include interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits within the provision for income taxes in the consolidated statements of operations. New Accounting Standards See Note 1, “Overview, Basis of Presentation and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,” to the consolidated financial statements for a description of new accounting pronouncements. 51