********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Our business is subject to various risks and uncertainties. In addition to the risks described elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, any of the risks and uncertainties described below could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations and should be considered when evaluating Kraft Heinz. Although the risks are organized and described separately, many of the risks are interrelated. While we believe we have identified and discussed the material risks affecting our business below, there may be additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known or that are not currently believed to be material that may adversely affect our business, performance, or financial condition in the future. Industry Risks We operate in a highly competitive industry. The food and beverage industry is highly competitive across all of our product offerings. Our principal competitors in these categories are manufacturers and retailers with their own branded and private label products. We compete based on product innovation, price, product quality, nutritional value, service, taste, convenience, brand recognition and loyalty, effectiveness of marketing and distribution, promotional activity, and the ability to identify and satisfy changing consumer preferences. We may need to reduce our prices, or be restricted or delayed in our ability to increase prices, in response to competitive, customer, consumer, regulatory, or macroeconomic pressures, including pressures related to private label products that are generally sold at lower prices. These pressures have restricted, and may in the future continue to restrict, our ability to increase prices in response to commodity and other cost increases, including those related to inflationary pressures. Additionally, we expect that there could be a difference between the timing of when we take pricing actions and the impact of those beneficial actions on our results of operations. Failure to effectively assess, timely change, and properly set pricing, promotions, or trade incentives may negatively impact our ability to achieve our objectives. The rapid emergence of new distribution channels, particularly e-commerce, may create consumer price deflation, affecting our retail customer relationships and presenting additional challenges to increasing prices in response to commodity or other cost increases, including those related to inflationary pressures. We may also need to increase or reallocate spending on marketing, retail trade incentives, materials, advertising, and new product, platform, or channel innovation to maintain or increase market share. These expenditures are subject to risks, including uncertainties about trade and consumer acceptance of our efforts. If we are unable to compete effectively, our profitability, financial condition, and operating results may decline. Our success depends on our ability to correctly predict, identify, and interpret changes in consumer preferences and demand, to offer new products to meet those changes, and to respond to competitive innovation. Consumer preferences for food and beverage products change continually and rapidly. Our success depends on our ability to predict, identify, and interpret the tastes and dietary habits of consumers and to offer products that appeal to consumer preferences, including with respect to health and wellness. If we do not offer products that appeal to consumers, our sales and market share will decrease, which could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. Moreover, weak economic conditions, recessions, inflation, severe or unusual weather events, global or local pandemics, including COVID-19, as well as other factors, could affect consumer preferences and demand, at times, causing a strain on our supply chain due, in part, to retailers, distributors, or carriers modifying their restocking, fulfillment, or shipping practices. Failure to adequately respond to these changes could adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. We must distinguish between short-term trends and long-term changes in consumer preferences. If we do not accurately predict which shifts in consumer preferences will be long-term, or if we fail to introduce new and improved products to satisfy those preferences, our sales could decline. In addition, because of our varied consumer base, we must offer an array of products that satisfies a broad spectrum of consumer preferences. If we fail to expand our product offerings successfully across product categories or platforms, or if we do not rapidly develop products in faster-growing or more profitable categories, demand for our products could decrease, which could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. Prolonged negative perceptions concerning the health, environmental, or social implications of certain food and beverage products, ingredients, or packaging materials could influence consumer preferences and acceptance of our products and marketing programs. Our ability to refine the ingredient and nutrition profiles of and packaging for our products as well as to maintain focus on ethical sourcing and supply chain management opportunities to address evolving consumer preferences are important to our growth. We strive to respond to consumer preferences and social expectations, but we may not be successful in our efforts. Continued negative perceptions and failure to satisfy consumer preferences could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. 7 In addition, our growth depends on our successful development, introduction, and marketing of innovative new products and line extensions. There are inherent risks associated with new product or packaging introductions, including uncertainties about trade and consumer acceptance or potential impacts on our existing product offerings. We may be required to increase expenditures for new product development. Successful innovation depends on our ability to correctly anticipate customer and consumer acceptance, to obtain, protect, and maintain necessary intellectual property rights, and to avoid infringing upon the intellectual property rights of others. We must also be able to respond successfully to technological advances by and intellectual property rights of our competitors, and failure to do so could compromise our competitive position and impact our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. Changes in the retail landscape or the loss of key retail customers could adversely affect our financial performance. Retail customers, such as supermarkets, warehouse clubs, and food distributors in our major markets, may continue to consolidate, resulting in fewer but larger customers for our business across various channels. These larger customers may seek to leverage their positions to improve their profitability by demanding improved efficiency, lower pricing, more favorable terms, increased promotional programs, or specifically tailored product offerings. In addition, larger retailers have scale to develop supply chains that permit them to operate with reduced inventories or to develop and market their own private label products. Retail consolidation and increasing retailer power could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. Retail consolidation also increases the risk that adverse changes in our customers’ business operations or financial performance may have a corresponding adverse effect on us, which could be material. For example, if our customers cannot access sufficient funds or financing, then they may delay, decrease, or cancel purchases of our products, or delay or fail to pay us for previous purchases, which could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. In addition, technology-based systems, which give consumers the ability to shop through e-commerce websites and mobile commerce applications, are also significantly altering the retail landscape in many of our markets. If we are unable to adjust to developments in these changing landscapes, we may be disadvantaged in key channels and with certain consumers, which could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. Changes in our relationships with significant customers or suppliers, or in other business relationships, could adversely impact us. We derive significant portions of our sales from certain significant customers (see Sales and Customers within Item 1, Business ). Some or all of our significant customers may not continue to purchase our products in the same mix or quantities or on the same terms as in the past, particularly as increasingly powerful retailers may demand lower pricing and focus on developing their own brands. The loss of a significant customer or a material reduction in sales or a change in the mix of products we sell to a significant customer could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. Disputes with significant suppliers, including disputes related to pricing or performance, could adversely affect our ability to supply products to our customers and could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. In addition, terminations of relationships with other significant contractual counterparties, including licensors, could adversely affect our portfolio, product sales, financial condition, and operating results. In addition, the financial condition of such customers, suppliers, and other significant contractual counterparties are affected in large part by conditions and events that are beyond our control. Significant deteriorations in the financial conditions of significant customers or suppliers, or in other business relationships, could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. Maintaining, extending, and expanding our reputation and brand image are essential to our business success. We have many iconic brands with long-standing consumer recognition across the globe. Our success depends on our ability to maintain brand image for our existing products, extend our brands to new platforms, and expand our brand image with new product offerings. We seek to maintain, extend, and expand our brand image through marketing investments, including advertising and consumer promotions, and product innovation. Negative perceptions of food and beverage marketing could adversely affect our brand image or lead to stricter regulations and scrutiny of our marketing practices. Moreover, adverse publicity about legal or regulatory action against us, our quality and safety, our environmental or social impacts, our other environmental, social, human capital, or governance practices, our products becoming unavailable to consumers, or our suppliers and, in some cases, our competitors, could damage our reputation and brand image, undermine our customers’ or consumers’ confidence, and reduce demand for our products, even if the regulatory or legal action is unfounded or not material to our operations. Furthermore, 8 existing or increased legal or regulatory restrictions on our advertising, consumer promotions, and marketing, or our response to those restrictions, could limit our efforts to maintain, extend, and expand our brands. In addition, our success in maintaining, extending, and expanding our brand image depends on our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing media environment. We increasingly rely on social media and online dissemination of advertising campaigns. The growing use of social and digital media increases the speed and extent that information, including misinformation, and opinions can be shared. Negative posts or comments about us, our brands or our products, or our suppliers and, in some cases, our competitors, on social or digital media, whether or not valid, could seriously damage our brands and reputation. In addition, we might fail to appropriately target our marketing efforts, anticipate consumer preferences, or invest sufficiently in maintaining, extending, and expanding our brand image. If we do not maintain, extend, and expand our reputation or brand image, then our product sales, financial condition, and operating results could be materially and adversely affected. We must leverage our brand value to compete against private label products. In nearly all of our product categories, we compete with branded products as well as private label products, which are typically sold at lower prices. Our products must provide higher value or quality to consumers than alternatives, particularly during periods of economic uncertainty or weakness or inflation. Consumers may not buy our products if relative differences in value or quality between our products and private label products change in favor of competitors’ products or if consumers perceive such a change. If consumers prefer private label products, then we could lose market share or sales volume, or our product mix could shift to lower margin offerings. A change in consumer preferences could also cause us to increase capital, marketing, and other expenditures, which could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. We may be unable to drive revenue growth in our key product categories or platforms, increase our market share, or add products that are in faster-growing and more profitable categories. Our future results will depend on our ability to drive revenue growth in our key product categories or platforms as well as growth in the food and beverage industry in the geographies in which we operate. Our future results will also depend on our ability to enhance our portfolio by adding innovative new products in faster-growing and more profitable categories or platforms and our ability to increase market share in our existing product categories or platforms. Our failure to drive revenue growth, limit market share decreases in our key product categories or platforms, or develop innovative products for new and existing categories or platforms could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. Product recalls or other product liability claims could materially and adversely affect us. Selling products for human consumption involves inherent legal and other risks, including product contamination, spoilage, product tampering, allergens, or other adulteration. We have decided and could in the future decide to, and have been or could in the future be required to, recall products due to suspected or confirmed product contamination, adulteration, product mislabeling or misbranding, tampering, undeclared allergens, or other deficiencies. Product recalls or market withdrawals could result in significant losses due to their costs, the destruction of product inventory, and lost sales due to the unavailability of the product for a period of time. We could also be adversely affected if consumers lose confidence in the safety and quality of our food products or ingredients, or the food safety system generally. Adverse attention about these types of concerns, whether or not valid, may damage our reputation, discourage consumers from buying our products, or cause production and delivery disruptions that could negatively impact our net sales and financial condition. We may also suffer losses if our products or operations violate applicable laws or regulations or if our products cause injury, illness, or death. In addition, our marketing could face claims of false or deceptive advertising or other criticism. A significant product liability or other legal judgment or a related regulatory enforcement action against us, or a significant product recall, may materially and adversely affect our reputation and profitability. Moreover, even if a product liability or fraud claim is unsuccessful, has no merit, or is not pursued to conclusion, the negative publicity surrounding assertions against our products or processes could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. Climate change and legal or regulatory responses may have a long-term adverse impact on our business and results of operations. Global average temperatures are gradually increasing due to increased concentration of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases in the atmosphere, which is projected to contribute to significant changes in weather patterns around the globe, an increase in the frequency and severity of natural disasters, and changes in agricultural productivity. Increasing concern over climate change may adversely impact demand for our products, or increase our operating costs, due to changes in consumer preferences that cause consumers to switch away from products or ingredients considered to have a high climate change impact. 9 Increased natural disasters and decreased agricultural productivity in certain regions of the world as a result of changing weather patterns may limit the availability or increase the cost of natural resources and commodities, including dairy products, meat products, soybean and vegetable oils, tomatoes, coffee beans, sugar and other sweeteners, other fruits and vegetables, corn products, wheat products, and potatoes, to manufacture our products, and could further decrease food security for communities around the world. Climate change, and its environmental impacts, could also affect our ability, and our suppliers’ ability, to procure necessary commodities at costs and in quantities we currently experience and may require us to increase costs or make additional unplanned capital expenditures. Further, an increase in the frequency and severity of natural disasters could result in disruptions for us, our customers, suppliers, vendors, co-manufacturers, and distributors and impact our employees’ abilities to commute or work from home effectively. These disruptions could make it more difficult and costly for us to deliver our products, obtain raw materials or other supplies through our supply chain, maintain or resume operations, or perform other critical corporate functions, could reduce customer demand for our products, and could increase the cost of insurance. Additionally, there is an increased focus by foreign, federal, state, and local regulatory and legislative bodies regarding environmental policies relating to climate change, regulating greenhouse gas emissions (including carbon pricing or a carbon tax), energy policies, disclosure obligations, and sustainability. Increased energy or compliance costs and expenses due to the impacts of climate change, as well as additional legal or regulatory requirements regarding climate change designed to reduce or mitigate the effects of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions on the environment could be costly and may cause disruptions in, or an increase in the costs associated with, the running of our manufacturing and processing facilities and our business, as well as increase distribution and supply chain costs. Moreover, compliance with any such legal or regulatory requirements may require us to make significant changes to our business operations and long-term operating plans, which will likely incur substantial time, attention, and costs. Even if we make changes to align ourselves with such legal or regulatory requirements, we may still be subject to significant penalties if such laws and regulations are interpreted and applied in a manner inconsistent with our practices. The effects of climate change and legal or regulatory initiatives to address climate change could have a long-term adverse impact on our business and results of operations. Finally, we might fail to effectively address increased attention from the media, stockholders, activists, and other stakeholders on climate change and related environmental sustainability matters. Such failure, or the perception that we have failed to act responsibly with respect to such matters or to effectively respond to new or additional regulatory requirements regarding climate change, whether or not valid, could result in adverse publicity and negatively affect our business and reputation. Additionally, from time to time we establish and publicly announce environmental, social, and governance goals, commitments, and aspirations, including to reduce our impact on the environment. Our ability to achieve any stated goal, target, or objective is subject to numerous factors and conditions, many of which are outside of our control. Examples of such factors include evolving regulatory requirements affecting sustainability standards or disclosures or imposing different requirements, the pace of changes in technology, the availability of requisite financing, and the availability of suppliers that can meet our sustainability and other standards. Furthermore, standards for tracking and reporting such matters continue to evolve. Our selection of voluntary disclosure frameworks and standards, and the interpretation or application of those frameworks and standards, may change from time to time or differ from those of others. Methodologies for reporting this data may be updated and previously reported data may be adjusted to reflect improvement in availability and quality of third-party data, changing assumptions, changes in the nature and scope of our operations, and other changes in circumstances. Our processes and controls for reporting sustainability and other matters across our operations and supply chain are evolving along with multiple disparate standards for identifying, measuring, and reporting sustainability metrics, including sustainability-related disclosures that may be required by the SEC and European and other regulators, and such standards may change over time, which could result in significant revisions to our current goals, reported progress in achieving such goals, or ability to achieve such goals in the future. If we fail to achieve, or are perceived to have failed or been delayed in achieving, or improperly report on our progress toward achieving these goals and commitments, it could negatively affect consumer preference for our products or investor confidence in our stock, as well as expose us to government enforcement actions and private litigation. 10 Business Risks We may not successfully identify, complete, or realize the benefits from strategic acquisitions, divestitures, alliances, joint ventures, or investments. From time to time, we have evaluated and may continue to evaluate acquisition candidates, alliances, joint ventures, or investments that may strategically fit our business objectives, and, as a result of some of these evaluations, we have acquired businesses or assets that we deem to be a strategic fit. We have also divested and may consider divesting businesses that do not meet our strategic objectives or growth or profitability targets. These activities may present financial, managerial, and operational risks including, but not limited to, diversion of management’s attention from existing core businesses; difficulties in integrating, or inability to successfully integrate, acquired businesses, including integrating or separating personnel and financial and other systems; inability to effectively and immediately implement control environment processes across a diverse employee population; adverse effects on existing or acquired customer and supplier business relationships; and potential disputes with buyers, sellers, or partners. Activities in such areas are regulated by numerous antitrust and competition laws in the United States, Canada, the European Union, the United Kingdom, and elsewhere. We have in the past and may in the future be required to obtain approval of these transactions by competition authorities or to satisfy other legal requirements, and we may be unable to obtain such approvals or satisfy such requirements, each of which may result in additional costs, time delays, or our inability to complete such transactions, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. To the extent we undertake acquisitions, alliances, joint ventures, investments, or other developments in new geographies or categories, we may face additional risks related to such developments. For example, risks related to foreign operations are discussed below under the risk factor titled “ Our international operations subject us to additional risks and costs and may cause our profitability to decline. ” To the extent we undertake divestitures, we may face additional risks related to such activities. For example, risks related to our ability to find appropriate buyers, execute transactions on favorable terms, separate divested business operations with minimal impact to our remaining operations, and effectively manage any transitional service arrangements. Further, our divestiture activities have in the past required, and may in the future require, us to recognize impairment charges. Any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. We may not be able to successfully execute our strategic initiatives. We plan to continue to conduct strategic initiatives in various markets. Consumer demands, behaviors, tastes, and purchasing trends may differ in these markets and, as a result, our sales strategies may not be successful and our product sales may not meet expectations, or the margins on those sales may be less than currently anticipated. We may also face difficulties integrating new business operations with our current sourcing, distribution, information technology systems, and other operations. Additionally, we may not successfully complete any planned strategic initiatives, including achieving any previously announced productivity efficiencies and financial targets, any new business may not be profitable or meet our expectations, or any divestiture may not be completed without disruption. Any of these challenges could hinder our success in new markets or new distribution channels, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our international operations subject us to additional risks and costs and may cause our profitability to decline. We are a global company with sales and operations in numerous countries within developed and emerging markets. Approximately 30% of our 2022 net sales were generated outside of the United States. As a result, we are subject to risks inherent in global operations. These risks, which can vary substantially by market, are described in many of the risk factors discussed in this section, and also include: • compliance with U.S. laws affecting operations outside of the United States, including anti-bribery and corruption laws such as the FCPA; • changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, tax laws or their interpretations, or tax audit implications; • the imposition of increased or new tariffs, quotas, trade barriers, or similar restrictions on our sales or imports, trade agreements, regulations, taxes, or policies that might negatively affect our sales or costs; • foreign currency devaluations or fluctuations in foreign currency values, including risks arising from the significant and rapid fluctuations in foreign currency exchange markets and the decisions made and positions taken to hedge such volatility; • compliance with antitrust and competition laws, data privacy laws, human rights laws, and a variety of other local, national, and multi-national regulations and laws in multiple jurisdictions; • discriminatory or conflicting fiscal policies in or across foreign jurisdictions; 11 • changes in capital controls, including foreign currency exchange controls, governmental foreign currency policies, or other limits on our ability to import raw materials or finished product into various countries or repatriate cash from outside the United States; • challenges associated with cross-border product distribution, including economic sanctions, export controls, and labor restrictions; • changes in local regulations and laws, the uncertainty of enforcement of remedies in foreign jurisdictions, and foreign ownership restrictions and the potential for nationalization or expropriation of property or other resources; • risks and costs associated with political and economic instability, military conflict, corruption, anti-American sentiment, and social and ethnic unrest in the countries in which we operate; • the risks of operating in developing or emerging markets in which there are significant uncertainties regarding the interpretation, application, and enforceability of laws and regulations and the enforceability of contract rights and intellectual property rights; • changing labor conditions and difficulties in staffing our operations; • greater risk of uncollectible accounts or trade receivables and longer collection cycles; and • design, implementation, and use of effective control environment processes across our various operations and employee base. Slow economic growth or high unemployment in the markets in which we operate could constrain consumer spending, and declining consumer purchasing power could adversely impact our profitability. Any of these factors could result in increased costs or decreased sales, and could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and results of operations. Our intellectual property rights are valuable, and any inability to protect them could reduce the value of our products and brands. We consider our intellectual property rights, particularly and most notably our trademarks, but also our patents, trade secrets, trade dress, copyrights, and licensing agreements, to be a significant and valuable aspect of our business. We attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright, trade secret, and trade dress laws, as well as licensing agreements, third-party nondisclosure and assignment agreements, policing of third-party misuses of our intellectual property, and securing our information technology systems. Our failure to develop or adequately protect our trademarks, products, new features of our products, or our technology, or any change in law or other changes that serve to lessen or remove the current legal protections of our intellectual property, may diminish our competitiveness and could materially and adversely affect our product sales, business, and financial condition. We also license certain intellectual property, most notably trademarks, from third parties. To the extent that we are not able to contract with these third parties on favorable terms or maintain our relationships with these third parties, our rights to use certain intellectual property could be impacted, which may adversely impact our results from operations. We may be unaware of intellectual property rights of others that may cover some of our technology, brands, or products. Any litigation regarding patents or other intellectual property could be costly and time-consuming and could divert the attention of our management and key personnel from our business operations. Third-party claims of intellectual property infringement might also require us to enter into costly license agreements. We also may be subject to significant damages or injunctions against development and sale of certain products. We may be unable to realize the anticipated benefits from prior or future streamlining actions to reduce fixed costs, simplify or improve processes, or improve our competitiveness. We have implemented a number of initiatives, including development of an operations center and strategic long-term collaboration with suppliers, that we believe are important to position our business for future success and growth. We have evaluated and continue to evaluate changes to our organizational structure and operations to enable us to reduce costs, simplify or improve processes, and improve our competitiveness. Our future success may depend upon our ability to realize the benefits of these or other cost-saving initiatives. In addition, certain of our initiatives may lead to increased costs in other aspects of our business such as increased conversion, outsourcing, or distribution costs. We must accurately predict costs and be efficient in executing any plans to achieve cost savings and operate efficiently in the highly competitive food and beverage industry, particularly in an environment of increased competition. To capitalize on our efforts, we must carefully evaluate investments in our business and execute in those areas with the most potential return on investment. If we are unable to realize the anticipated benefits from any cost-saving efforts, we could be cost disadvantaged in the marketplace, and our competitiveness, production, profitability, financial condition, and operating results could be adversely affected. Berkshire Hathaway has the ability to exert influence over us and significant influence over matters requiring stockholder approval. 12 As of December 31, 2022, Berkshire Hathaway owns approximately 26.6% of our common stock. Three members of our Board are officers and/or directors of Berkshire Hathaway or its affiliates. As a result, Berkshire Hathaway has the potential to exercise influence over management and Board decisions, including those affecting our capital structure, such as the issuance of additional capital stock, the incurrence of additional indebtedness, the implementation of stock repurchase programs, and the declaration and amount of dividends. Berkshire Hathaway also has influence over any action requiring the approval of the holders of our common stock, including adopting any amendments to our charter, electing directors, and approving mergers or sales of substantially all of our capital stock or assets. In addition, Berkshire Hathaway is in the business of making investments in companies and may from time to time acquire and hold interests in businesses that compete directly or indirectly with us. Berkshire Hathaway may also pursue acquisition opportunities that may be complementary to our business, and, as a result, those opportunities may not be available to us. Financial Risks Our level of indebtedness, as well as our ability to comply with covenants under our debt instruments, could adversely affect our business and financial condition. We have a substantial amount of indebtedness and are permitted to incur a substantial amount of additional indebtedness, including secured debt. Our existing debt, together with any incurrence of additional indebtedness, could have important consequences, including, but not limited to: • increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; • limiting our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, research and development, debt service requirements, acquisitions, and general corporate or other purposes; • resulting in a downgrade to our credit rating, which could adversely affect our cost of funds, including our commercial paper programs, liquidity, and access to capital markets; • restricting us from making strategic acquisitions or causing us to make non-strategic divestitures; • limiting our ability to adjust to changing market conditions and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors who are not as highly leveraged; • making it more difficult for us to make payments on our existing indebtedness; • requiring a substantial portion of cash flow from operations to be dedicated to the payment of principal and interest on our indebtedness, thereby reducing our ability to use our cash flow to fund our operations, payments of dividends, capital expenditures, and future business opportunities; • exposing us to risks related to fluctuations in foreign currency, as we earn profits in a variety of foreign currencies and the majority of our debt is denominated in U.S. dollars; and • in the case of any additional indebtedness, exacerbating the risks associated with our substantial financial leverage. In addition, we may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations or future debt or equity financings may not be available to us to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund other needs. As a result, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. We may not be able to refinance any of our indebtedness on favorable terms, or at all. Any inability to generate sufficient cash flow or to refinance our indebtedness on favorable terms could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition. Our debt instruments contain customary representations, warranties, and covenants, including a financial covenant in our senior unsecured revolving credit facility (the “Senior Credit Facility”) to maintain a minimum shareholders’ equity (excluding accumulated other comprehensive income/(losses)). The creditors who hold our debt could accelerate amounts due in the event that we default, which could potentially trigger a default or acceleration of the maturity of our other debt. If our operating performance declines, or if we are unable to comply with any covenant, such as our ability to timely prepare and file our periodic reports with the SEC, we have in the past needed and may in the future need to obtain waivers from the required creditors under our debt instruments to avoid being in default. If we breach any covenants under our debt instruments and seek a waiver, we may not be able to obtain a waiver from the required creditors, or we may not be able to remedy compliance within the terms of any waivers approved by the required creditors. If this occurs, we would be in default under our debt instruments and unable to access our Senior Credit Facility. In addition, certain creditors could exercise their rights, as described above, and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. 13 Additional impairments of the carrying amounts of goodwill or other indefinite-lived intangible assets could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. As of December 31, 2022, we maintain 11 reporting units, seven of which comprise our goodwill balance. Our indefinite-lived intangible asset balance primarily consists of a number of individual brands . We test our reporting units and brands for impairment annually as of the first day of our third quarter, or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit or brand is less than its carrying amount. Such events and circumstances could include a sustained decrease in our market capitalization, increased competition or unexpected loss of market share, increased input costs beyond projections, disposals of significant brands or components of our business, unexpected business disruptions (for example due to a natural disaster, pandemic, or loss of a customer, supplier, or other significant business relationship), unexpected significant declines in operating results, significant adverse changes in the markets in which we operate, changes in income tax rates, changes in interest rates, or changes in management strategy. We test reporting units for impairment by comparing the estimated fair value of each reporting unit with its carrying amount. We test brands for impairment by comparing the estimated fair value of each brand with its carrying amount. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit or brand exceeds its estimated fair value, we record an impairment loss based on the difference between fair value and carrying amount, in the case of reporting units, not to exceed the associated carrying amount of goodwill. Fair value determinations require considerable judgment and are sensitive to changes in underlying assumptions, estimates, and market factors. Estimating the fair value of individual reporting units and brands requires us to make assumptions and estimates regarding our future plans, as well as industry, economic, and regulatory conditions. These assumptions and estimates include estimated future annual net cash flows, income tax considerations, discount rates, growth rates, royalty rates, contributory asset charges, and other market factors. Our current expectations also include certain assumptions that could be negatively impacted if we are unable to meet our pricing expectations in relation to inflation. If current expectations of future growth rates and margins are not met, if market factors outside of our control, such as discount rates, income tax rates, foreign currency exchange rates, or inflation, change, or if management’s expectations or plans otherwise change, including updates to our long-term operating plans, then one or more of our reporting units or brands might become impaired in the future, which could negatively affect our operating results or net worth. Furthermore, changes in reporting units, including as a result of integrating a new acquisition into an existing reporting unit that has a fair value below carrying amount of goodwill, have led, and could in the future lead, to an impairment of goodwill. Additionally, any decisions to divest certain non-strategic assets has led, and could in the future lead, to goodwill or intangible asset impairments. Reporting units and brands that have 20% or less excess fair value over carrying amount as of the annual impairment test we performed as of June 26, 2022 (the “Q3 2022 Annual Impairment Test”) have a heightened risk of future impairments if any assumptions, estimates, or market factors change in the future. Reporting units with 20% or less fair value over carrying amount had an aggregate goodwill carrying amount after impairment of $16.4 billion as of the Q3 2022 Annual Impairment Test and included Taste, Meals, and Away from Home (TMA), Canada and North America Coffee (CNAC), and Continental Europe. Reporting units with between 20-50% fair value over carrying amount had an aggregate goodwill carrying amount of $14.5 billion as of the Q3 2022 Annual Impairment Test and included Fresh, Beverages, and Desserts (FBD), Northern Europe, Asia, and Latin America (LATAM). Brands with 20% or less fair value over carrying amount had an aggregate carrying amount after impairment of $16.6 billion as of the Q3 2022 Annual Impairment Test and included Kraft , Oscar Mayer , Miracle Whip , Ore-Ida , Maxwell House , Cool Whip , Jet Puffed , and Plasmon . The aggregate carrying amount of brands with fair value over carrying amount between 20-50% was $2.5 billion as of the Q3 2022 Annual Impairment Test. Although the remaining brands, with a carrying value of $19.4 billion, have more than 50% excess fair value over carrying amount as of the Q3 2022 Annual Impairment Test, these amounts are also associated with the 2013 Heinz Acquisition and the 2015 Merger and were initially recorded at the time of acquisition on our consolidated balance sheet at their estimated acquisition date fair values. Therefore, if any assumptions, estimates, or market factors change in the future, these amounts are also susceptible to impairments. Our net sales and net income may be exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations. We derive a substantial portion of our net sales from international markets. We hold assets, incur liabilities, earn revenue, and pay expenses in a variety of currencies other than the U.S. dollar, primarily the Canadian dollar, euro, British pound sterling, Australian dollar, Brazilian real, Chinese renminbi, Indonesian rupiah, Russian ruble, and New Zealand dollar. Since our consolidated financial statements are reported in U.S. dollars, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates from period to period, which have been more volatile recently, will have an impact on our reported results. We have implemented foreign currency hedges intended to reduce our exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. However, these hedging strategies may not be successful, and any of our unhedged foreign exchange exposures will continue to be subject to market fluctuations. In addition, in certain circumstances, we may incur costs in one currency related to services or products for which we are paid in a different currency. As a result, factors associated with our international operations, including changes in foreign currency exchange rates, could significantly affect our results of operations and financial condition. 14 Commodity, energy, and other input prices are volatile and could negatively affect our consolidated operating results. We purchase and use large quantities of commodities, including dairy products, meat products, soybean and vegetable oils, tomatoes, coffee beans, sugar and other sweeteners, other fruits and vegetables, corn products, wheat products, and potatoes, to manufacture our products. In addition, we purchase and use significant quantities of resins, fiberboard, metals, and cardboard to package our products, and we use other inputs, such as electricity, natural gas, and water, to operate our facilities. We are also exposed to changes in oil prices, including diesel fuel, which influence both our packaging and transportation costs. Prices for commodities, energy, and other supplies are volatile and can fluctuate due to conditions that are difficult to predict, including global competition for resources, inflationary pressure, foreign currency fluctuations, severe weather, natural disasters, global climate change, water risk, pandemics, crop failures, crop shortages due to plant disease or insect and other pest infestation, consumer, industrial, or investment demand, and changes in governmental regulation and trade, tariffs, alternative energy, including increased demand for biofuels, and agricultural programs. Additionally, we may be unable to maintain favorable arrangements with respect to the costs of procuring raw materials, packaging, services, and transporting products, which could result in increased expenses and negatively affect our operations. Furthermore, the cost of raw materials and finished products may fluctuate due to changes in cross-currency transaction rates. In addition, disruptions in the global economy caused by the ongoing conflict between Russia and Ukraine have caused, and could continue to cause, increased volatility of commodity and energy costs. Rising commodity, energy, and other input costs could materially and adversely affect our cost of operations, including the manufacture, transportation, and distribution of our products, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. Although we monitor our exposure to commodity and other input prices as an integral part of our overall risk management program, and seek to hedge against input price increases to the extent we deem appropriate, we do not fully hedge against changes in commodity prices, and our hedging strategies may not protect us from increases in specific raw materials costs. For example, hedging our costs for one of our key commodities, dairy products, is difficult because dairy futures markets are not as liquid as many other commodities futures markets. Continued volatility or sustained increases in the prices of commodities and other supplies we purchase could increase the costs of our products, and our profitability could suffer. Moreover, increases in the prices of our products to cover these increased costs may result in lower sales volumes, or we may be constrained from increasing the prices of our products by competitive and consumer pressures. If we are not successful in our hedging activities, or if we are unable to price our products to cover increased costs, then commodity and other input price volatility or increases could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. In 2022, we continued to experience higher commodity costs and supply chain costs, including procurement, logistics, and manufacturing costs, largely due to inflationary pressures. We expect these costs to continue to increase and inflation to remain elevated through 2023. Although we take measures to mitigate the impact of this inflation through pricing actions and efficiency gains, if these measures are not effective our financial condition, operating results, and cash flows could be materially adversely affected. Even if such measures are effective, we expect that there could be a difference between the timing of when these beneficial actions impact our results of operations and when the cost inflation is incurred. Additionally, the pricing actions we take have, in some instances, negatively impacted and could continue to negatively impact our market share. Volatility in the market value of all or a portion of the derivatives we use to manage exposures to fluctuations in commodity prices may cause volatility in our gross profit and net income. We use commodity futures, options, and swaps to economically hedge the price of certain input costs, including dairy products, vegetable oils, coffee beans, wheat products, corn products, sugar, meat products, and cocoa products. We recognize gains and losses based on changes in the values of these commodity derivatives. We recognize these gains and losses in cost of products sold in our consolidated statements of income to the extent we utilize the underlying input in our manufacturing process. We recognize the unrealized gains and losses on these commodity derivatives in general corporate expenses until realized; once realized, the gains and losses are recorded in the applicable segment’s operating results. Accordingly, changes in the values of our commodity derivatives may cause volatility in our gross profit and net income. 15 Regulatory Risks Our compliance with laws and regulations, and related legal claims or regulatory enforcement actions, could expose us to significant liabilities and damage our reputation. As a large, global food and beverage company, we operate in a highly regulated environment with constantly evolving legal and regulatory frameworks. Various laws and regulations govern our practices including, but not limited to, those related to advertising and marketing, product claims and labeling, food production, environmental matters (including climate change), intellectual property, consumer protection and product liability, commercial disputes, trade and export controls, anti-trust, data privacy, labor and employment, workplace health and safety, and tax. As a consequence, we face a heightened risk of legal claims and regulatory enforcement actions in the ordinary course of business. In addition, the imposition of new laws, changes in laws or regulatory requirements or changing interpretations thereof, and differing or competing regulations and standards across the markets where our products are made, manufactured, distributed, and sold have in the past and could continue to result in higher compliance costs, capital expenditures, and higher production costs, adversely impacting our product sales, financial condition, and results of operations. Furthermore, actions we have taken or may take, or decisions we have made or may make, in response to pandemics (including the COVID-19 pandemic), may result in investigations, legal claims, or litigation against us. In addition, claims about the health impacts of consumption of our products, or ingredients, components, or substances present or allegedly present in those products or packaging, have resulted in, and could in the future result in, us being subject to regulations, fines, lawsuits, or taxes that could adversely impact our business. As a result of any such legal claims or regulatory enforcement actions, we could be subject to monetary judgments, settlements, and civil and criminal actions, including fines, injunctions, product recalls, penalties, disgorgement of profits, or activity restrictions, which could materially and adversely affect our reputation, product sales, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. We evaluate these legal claims and regulatory enforcement actions to assess the likelihood of unfavorable outcomes and to estimate, if possible, the amount of potential losses. Based on these assessments and estimates, we establish reserves and disclose relevant material litigation claims, legal proceedings, or regulatory enforcement actions as appropriate and in accordance with SEC rules and accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (“U.S. GAAP”). Our assessments and estimates are based on the information available to management at the time and involve a significant amount of judgment. Actual outcomes or losses may differ materially from our current assessments and estimates. In addition, even if a claim is unsuccessful, without merit, or not pursued to completion, the cost of defending against or responding to such a claim, including expenses and management time, could adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. If we fail to maintain an effective system of internal controls, we may not be able to accurately and timely report our financial results, which could negatively impact our business, investor confidence, and the price of our common stock. If we are unable to maintain effective internal control over financial reporting or disclosure controls and procedures, our ability to record, process, and report financial information accurately and to prepare financial statements within required time periods could be adversely affected, which could subject us to litigation, investigations, or penalties; negatively affect our liquidity, our access to capital markets, perceptions of our creditworthiness, our ability to complete acquisitions, our ability to maintain compliance with covenants under our debt instruments or derivative arrangements regarding the timely filing of periodic reports, or investor confidence in our financial reporting; or cause defaults, accelerations, or cross-accelerations under our debt instruments or derivative arrangements to the extent we are unable to obtain waivers from the required creditors or counterparties or to cure any breaches, any of which may require management resources or cause our stock price to decline. A downgrade in our credit rating could adversely impact interest costs or access to future borrowings. Our borrowing costs can be affected by short and long-term credit ratings assigned by rating organizations. A decrease in these credit ratings could limit our access to capital markets and increase our borrowing costs, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and operating results. In February 2020, Moody’s Investor Services, Inc. (“Moody’s”) affirmed our long-term credit rating of Baa3 with a negative outlook and Fitch Ratings (“Fitch”) and S&P Global Ratings (“S&P”) downgraded our long-term credit rating from BBB- to BB+ with a stable outlook from Fitch and a negative outlook from S&P. The downgrades by Fitch and S&P adversely affected our ability to access the commercial paper market. These downgrades did not constitute a default or event of default under our debt instruments. Our long-term credit rating was upgraded from BB+ to BBB- by S&P in March 2022 and by Fitch in May 2022. Fitch upgraded our long-term debt credit rating from BBB- to BBB in November 2022. As of the date of this filing, our long-term debt is rated BBB- by S&P, BBB by Fitch and Baa3 by Moody’s, with a positive outlook from S&P and a stable outlook from Fitch and Moody’s. 16 Registered Securities Risks Sales of our common stock in the public market could cause volatility in the price of our common stock or cause the share price to fall. Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, including sales of our common stock by Berkshire Hathaway, or the perception that these sales might occur, could depress the market price of our common stock, and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of additional equity securities. A sustained depression in the market price of our common stock has happened and could in the future happen, which could also reduce our market capitalization below the book value of net assets, which could increase the likelihood of recognizing goodwill or indefinite-lived intangible asset impairment losses that could negatively affect our financial condition and results of operations. Kraft Heinz, 3G Global Food Holdings, and Berkshire Hathaway entered into a registration rights agreement requiring us to register for resale under the Securities Act all registrable shares held by 3G Capital and Berkshire Hathaway, which represents all shares of our common stock held by Berkshire Hathaway and 3G Capital as of the date of the closing of the 2015 Merger. As of December 31, 2022, registrable shares represented approximately 34.5% of all outstanding shares of our common stock. Although the registrable shares are subject to certain holdback and suspension periods, the registrable shares are not subject to a “lock-up” or similar restriction under the registration rights agreement. Accordingly, offers and sales of a large number of registrable shares may be made pursuant to an effective registration statement under the Securities Act in accordance with the terms of the registration rights agreement. Sales of our common stock by Berkshire Hathaway to other persons would likely result in an increase in the number of shares being traded in the public market and may increase the volatility of the price of our common stock. Our ability to pay regular dividends to our stockholders and the amounts of any such dividends are subject to the discretion of the Board and may be limited by our financial condition, debt agreements, or limitations under Delaware law. Although it is currently anticipated that we will continue to pay regular quarterly dividends, any such determination to pay dividends and the amounts thereof will be at the discretion of the Board and will be dependent on then-existing conditions, including our financial condition, income, legal requirements, including limitations under Delaware law, debt agreements, and other factors the Board deems relevant. The Board has previously decided, and may in the future decide, in its sole discretion, to change the amount or frequency of dividends or discontinue the payment of dividends entirely. For these reasons, stockholders will not be able to rely on dividends to receive a return on investment. Accordingly, realization of any gain on shares of our common stock may depend on the appreciation of the price of our common stock, which may not occur. General Risk Factors Disruptions in the global economy caused by geopolitical conflicts, including the ongoing conflict between Russia and Ukraine, could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Escalation of geopolitical tensions related to military conflict, including increased trade barriers or restrictions on global trade, could result in, among other things, supply chain disruptions, changes in consumer demand, increased cyberattacks, and impacts on foreign exchange rates and financial markets, any of which may adversely affect our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Although we do not have operations in Ukraine, and our business in Russia generated approximately 1% of our consolidated net sales for the year ended December 31, 2022, the military conflict between Russia and Ukraine has caused, and could continue to cause, negative impacts on our business and the global economy. Governments in the United States, Canada, United Kingdom, and European Union have each imposed export controls and economic sanctions on certain industry sectors and parties in Russia. Due in part to the negative impact of the Russia-Ukraine military conflict, we have experienced shortages in certain materials and increased costs in commodities including packaging materials, soybean and vegetable oils, energy, corn products, and wheat products. The effects of current geopolitical conflicts, including the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, as well as potential future geopolitical tensions, could heighten many of our known risks described in this Item 1A, Risk Factors . Unanticipated business disruptions and natural events in the locations in which we or our customers, suppliers, distributors, or regulators operate could adversely affect our ability to provide products to our customers or our results of operations. We have a complex network of suppliers, owned and leased manufacturing locations, co-manufacturing locations, distribution networks, and information systems that support our ability to consistently provide our products to our customers. Factors that are hard to predict or beyond our control, such as weather or other geological events or natural disasters, including hurricanes, earthquakes, floods, tsunamis, or wild fires (whether as a result of climate change or otherwise), raw material shortages, fires or explosions, political unrest, geopolitical conflicts (including the ongoing conflict between Russia and Ukraine), terrorism, civil strife, acts of war, public corruption, expropriation, generalized labor unrest or labor shortages, or pandemics (including 17 COVID-19), could damage or disrupt our operations or the operations of our customers, suppliers, vendors, co-manufacturers, distributors, or regulators. These factors include, but are not limited to: • natural disasters, labor strikes, or other disruptions at any of our facilities or our suppliers’ or distributors’ facilities may impair or delay the delivery of our products; and • illness of our workforce, or the workforce of third parties with which we do business, due to influenza or pandemics, could disrupt production of our products in one or more of our manufacturing facilities, or cause our suppliers, vendors, distributors, or third-party manufacturers to fail to meet their obligations to us. These or other disruptions may require additional resources to restore our supply chain or distribution network. While we insure against many of these events and certain business interruption risks and have policies and procedures to manage business continuity planning, such insurance may not compensate us for any losses incurred and our business continuity plans may not effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner. To the extent we are unable to respond to disruptions in our operations, whether by finding alternative suppliers or replacing capacity at key manufacturing or distribution locations; to quickly repair damage to our information, production, or supply systems; or to financially mitigate the likelihood or potential impact of such events, or effectively manage them if they occur, we may be late in delivering, or unable to deliver, products to our customers or to track orders, inventory, receivables, and payables. If that occurs, our customers’ confidence in us and long-term demand for our products could decline. Any of these events could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and results of operations. Our performance may be adversely affected by economic and political conditions in the United States and in various other nations where we do business. Our performance has been in the past and may continue in the future to be impacted by economic and political conditions in the United States and in other nations where we do business. Economic and financial uncertainties in our international markets, changes to major international trade arrangements, and the imposition of tariffs by certain foreign governments could negatively impact our operations and sales. Other factors impacting our operations in the United States and in international locations where we do business include changes in laws, export and import restrictions, foreign currency exchange rates, foreign currency devaluation, cash repatriation restrictions, recessionary conditions, foreign ownership restrictions, nationalization, the impact of hyperinflationary environments, terrorist acts, political unrest, and military conflict. Such factors in either domestic or foreign jurisdictions, and our responses to them, could materially and adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. We rely on our management team and other key personnel and may be unable to hire or retain key personnel or a highly skilled and diverse global workforce. We depend on the skills, working relationships, and continued services of key personnel, including our experienced management team. In addition, our ability to achieve our operating goals depends on our ability to identify, hire, train, and retain qualified individuals. We compete with other companies both within and outside of our industry for talented personnel, and we may lose key personnel or fail to attract, train, and retain other talented personnel and a diverse global workforce with the skills and in the locations we need to operate and grow our business. Unplanned turnover, failure to attract and develop personnel with key emerging capabilities such as e-commerce and digital marketing skills, or failure to develop adequate succession plans for leadership positions, including the Chief Executive Officer position, could deplete our institutional knowledge base and erode our competitiveness. Further, equity-based compensation is a key component of our compensation program and essential for attracting and retaining qualified personnel. As a result, the lack of positive performance in our stock price may adversely affect our ability to attract or retain key personnel. Changes in immigration laws and policies could also make it more difficult for us to recruit or relocate skilled employees. Any such loss, failure, or limitation could adversely affect our product sales, financial condition, and operating results. We are significantly dependent on information technology, and we may be unable to protect our information systems against service interruption, misappropriation of data, or breaches of security. We rely on information technology networks and systems, including the Internet, to process, transmit, and store electronic and financial information, to manage a variety of business processes and activities, and to comply with regulatory, legal, and tax requirements. We also depend on our information technology infrastructure for digital marketing activities and for electronic communications among our locations, personnel, customers, and suppliers. These information technology systems, some of which are managed by third parties, may be susceptible to damage, invasions, disruptions, or shutdowns due to hardware failures, computer viruses, hacker attacks and other cybersecurity risks, telecommunication failures, user errors, catastrophic events, or other factors. Geopolitical tensions or conflicts, such as the conflict between Russia and Ukraine, may further heighten the risk of cybersecurity attacks. If our information technology systems suffer severe damage, disruption, or shutdown, by unintentional or malicious actions of employees or contractors or by cyberattacks, and our business continuity plans do not effectively resolve the issues in a timely manner, we could experience business disruptions, reputational damage, transaction 18 errors, processing inefficiencies, the leakage of confidential information, and the loss of customers and sales, causing our product sales, financial condition, and operating results to be adversely affected and the reporting of our financial results to be delayed. In addition, if we are unable to prevent security breaches or disclosure of non-public information, we may suffer financial and reputational damage, litigation or remediation costs, fines, or penalties because of the unauthorized disclosure of confidential information belonging to us or to our partners, customers, consumers, or suppliers. While we maintain a cyber insurance policy that provides coverage for security incidents, we cannot be certain that our coverage will be adequate for liabilities actually incurred, that insurance will continue to be available to us on financially reasonable terms, or at all, or that any insurer will not deny coverage as to any future claim. Misuse, leakage, or falsification of information could result in violations of data privacy laws and regulations, damage to our reputation and credibility, loss of opportunities to acquire or divest of businesses or brands, and loss of our ability to commercialize products developed through research and development efforts and, therefore, could have a negative impact on net sales. In addition, we may suffer financial and reputational damage because of lost or misappropriated confidential information belonging to us, our current or former employees, or to our suppliers or consumers, and may become subject to legal action and increased regulatory oversight. We could also be required to spend significant financial and other resources to remedy the damage caused by a security breach or to repair or replace networks and information systems. We are also subject to various laws and regulations that are continuously evolving and developing regarding privacy, data protection, and data security, including those related to the collection, storage, handling, use, disclosure, transfer, and security of personal data. Such laws and regulations, as well as their interpretation and application, may vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, which can result in inconsistent or conflicting requirements. The European Union’s General Data Protection Regulation (“GDPR”), and similar regulations implemented in other non-U.S. geographies, adds a broad array of requirements with respect to personal data, including the public disclosure of significant data breaches, and imposes substantial penalties for non-compliance. The California Consumer Privacy Act (“CCPA”) and the California Privacy Rights Act (“CPRA”), which became effective in January 2023 and amended the CCPA, among other things, impose additional requirements with respect to disclosure and deletion of personal information of California residents. The CCPA and CPRA provide civil penalties for violations, as well as a private right of action for data breaches. Similar legislation in Virginia, Colorado, Utah, and Connecticut, all of which have gone into effect or will go into effect during 2023, impose transparency and other obligations with respect to personal data of their respective residents and provide residents with similar rights. GDPR, CCPA, CPRA, and other privacy and data protection laws may increase our costs of compliance and risks of non-compliance, which could result in substantial penalties. Our results could be adversely impacted as a result of increased pension, labor, and people-related expenses. Inflationary pressures, shortages in the labor market, increased employee turnover, and changes in the availability of our workers could increase labor costs, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated operating results or financial condition. Our labor costs include the cost of providing employee benefits in the United States, Canada, and other foreign jurisdictions, including pension, health and welfare, and severance benefits. Any declines in market returns could adversely impact the funding of pension plans, the assets of which are invested in a diversified portfolio of equity and fixed-income securities and other investments. Additionally, the annual costs of benefits vary with increased costs of health care and the outcome of collectively bargained wage and benefit agreements. Furthermore, we may be subject to increased costs or experience adverse effects to our operating results if we are unable to renew collectively bargained agreements on satisfactory terms. Our financial condition and ability to meet the needs of our customers could be materially and adversely affected if strikes or work stoppages or interruptions occur as a result of delayed negotiations with union-represented employees both in and outside of the United States. We continue to observe a competitive labor market. Employee turnover, changes in the availability of our workers, and labor shortages in our supply chain have resulted in, and could continue to result in, increased costs and have, and could again, impact our ability to meet consumer demand, both of which could negatively affect our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. 19 Changes in tax laws and interpretations could adversely affect our business. We are subject to income and other taxes in the United States and in numerous foreign jurisdictions. Our domestic and foreign tax liabilities are dependent on the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed. Additionally, the amount of taxes paid is subject to our interpretation of applicable tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate. A number of factors influence our effective tax rate, including changes in tax laws and treaties as well as the interpretation of existing laws and rules. Federal, state, and local governments and administrative bodies within the United States, which represents the majority of our operations, and other foreign jurisdictions have implemented, or are considering, a variety of broad tax, trade, and other regulatory reforms that may impact us. We continue to monitor the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 and related regulatory developments to evaluate their potential impact on our business, tax rate, and financial results. Additionally, the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), a global coalition of member countries, proposed a two-pillar plan to reform international taxation. The proposals aim to ensure a fairer distribution of profits among countries and impose a floor on tax competition through the introduction of a global minimum tax. It is not currently possible to accurately determine the potential comprehensive impact of these or future changes, but these changes could have a material impact on our effective tax rate, financial condition, and business. Significant judgment, knowledge, and experience are required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. Our future effective tax rate is impacted by a number of factors including changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in geographic mix of income, changes in expenses not deductible for tax, including impairment of goodwill, and changes in available tax credits. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We are also regularly subject to audits by tax authorities. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits, including transfer pricing matters, and any related litigation could be materially different from our historical income tax provisions and accruals. For example, we are currently under examination by the Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) for income taxes for the years 2018 and 2019. We have received a draft economist report and expect to receive a Notice of Proposed Adjustment relating to transfer pricing with our foreign subsidiaries asserting that our U.S. taxable income for 2018 and 2019 should have been higher, which would result in additional U.S. tax expense for 2018 and 2019 plus interest and potential penalties. We intend to vigorously contest the position taken by the IRS; however, the ultimate outcome of this matter is uncertain, and if we are required to pay the IRS additional U.S. taxes, interest, and potential penalties, our results of operations and cash flows could be materially affected. Economic and political pressures to increase tax revenue in various jurisdictions may make resolving tax disputes more difficult. The results of an audit or litigation could adversely affect our financial statements in the period or periods for which that determination is made. Volatility of capital markets or macroeconomic factors could adversely affect our business. Changes in financial and capital markets, including market disruptions, limited liquidity, and interest rate volatility, may increase the cost of financing as well as the risks of refinancing maturing debt. Additionally, some of our customers, suppliers, and counterparties are highly leveraged. Consolidations in some of the industries in which our customers operate have created larger customers, some of which are highly leveraged and facing increased competition and continued credit market volatility. These factors have caused some customers to be less profitable, increasing our exposure to credit risk. A significant adverse change in the financial and/or credit position of a customer, supplier, or counterparty could require us to assume greater credit risk relating to that customer or counterparty and could limit our ability to collect receivables. This could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and liquidity.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

Overview Objective: The following discussion provides an analysis of our financial condition and results of operations from management's perspective and should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our objective is to also provide discussion of material events and uncertainties known to management that are reasonably likely to cause reported financial information not to be indicative of future operating results or of future financial condition and to offer information that provides an understanding of our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. See below for discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations for 2022 compared to 2021. See Item 7, Management’s Discussions and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations , in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 25, 2021 for a detailed discussion of our financial condition and results of operations for 2021 compared to 2020. Description of the Company: We manufacture and market food and beverage products, including condiments and sauces, cheese and dairy, meals, meats, refreshment beverages, coffee, and other grocery products throughout the world. In the second quarter of 2022, our internal reporting and reportable segments changed. We combined our United States and Canada zones to form the North America zone as a result of previously announced organizational changes, which are intended to advance and support our long-term growth plans by streamlining and synergizing our United States and Canada businesses. Subsequently, we manage and report our operating results through two reportable segments defined by geographic region: North America and International. We have reflected this change in all historical periods presented. See Note 20, Segment Reporting , in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , for our financial information by segment. Acquisitions and Divestitures: In 2022, we completed the acquisition of Companhia Hemmer Indústria e Comércio (the “Hemmer Acquisition”) and Just Spices GmbH (the “Just Spices Acquisition”), both of which are in our International segment. Additionally, in 2022, we completed the sale of our business-to-business powdered cheese business (the “Powdered Cheese Transaction”). The Powdered Cheese Transaction is not considered a strategic shift that will have a major effect on our operations or financial results; therefore, the results of this business are included in continuing operations through the date of sale. In 2021, we completed the acquisition of Assan Gıda Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. (the “Assan Foods Acquisition”) and BR Spices Indústria e Comércio de Alimentos Ltda (the “BR Spices Acquisition”), both of which are in our International segment . Additionally, in 2021, we completed the sale of certain assets in our global nuts business (the “Nuts Transaction”) as well as the sale of certain assets in our global cheese businesses (the “Cheese Transaction”). The Nuts Transaction and the Cheese Transaction are not, individually or in the aggregate, considered a strategic shift that will have a major effect on our operations or financial results; therefore, the results of these businesses are included in continuing operations through the date of each sale in the prior year period. See Note 4, Acquisitions and Divestitures , in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , for additional information. Conflict Between Russia and Ukraine: For the year ended December 31, 2022, approximately 1% of consolidated net sales, net income/(loss), and Adjusted EBITDA were generated from our business in Russia. For the year ended December 25, 2021, approximately 1% of consolidated net sales were generated from our business in Russia, while net income/(loss) and Adjusted EBITDA were each insignificant. As of December 31, 2022, we had approximately 1,100 employees in Russia. We have no operations or employees in Ukraine and insignificant net sales through distributors. Further, we have experienced cost increases globally for certain commodities, including packaging materials, soybean and vegetable oils, energy, corn products, and wheat products due to overall market demand, inflationary pressures, and, in part, to the negative impact of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine on the global economy. We will continue to monitor the impact that this conflict has on our business; however, through 2022, the conflict between Russia and Ukraine did not have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. 23 Items Affecting Comparability of Financial Results Impairment Losses: Our results of operations reflect goodwill impairment losses of $444 million, intangible asset impairment losses of $469 million, and property, plant, and equipment, net asset impairment losses of $86 million in 2022 compared to goodwill impairment losses of $318 million and intangible asset impairment losses of $1.3 billion in 2021. See Note 4, Acquisitions and Divestitures , and Note 8, Goodwill and Intangible Assets , in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , for additional information on these impairment losses. 53rd Week: We operate on a 52- or 53-week fiscal year ending on the last Saturday in December in each calendar year. Our 2022 fiscal year ended December 31, 2022 includes a 53rd week of activity. Our 2021 fiscal year was a 52-week period that ended on December 25, 2021. Inflation and Supply Chain Impacts: During the year ended December 31, 2022, we continued to experience increasing commodity costs and supply chain costs, including procurement, logistics, and manufacturing costs, largely due to inflationary pressures, as compared to the prior year period. We expect these costs to continue to increase and inflation to remain elevated through 2023. While these costs have a negative impact on our results of operations, we are currently taking measures to mitigate, and expect to continue to take measures to mitigate, the impact of this inflation through pricing actions and efficiency gains. However, there has been, and we expect that there could continue to be, a difference between the timing of when these beneficial actions impact our results of operations and when the cost inflation is incurred. Additionally, the pricing actions we take have, in some instances, negatively impacted, and could continue to negatively impact, our market share. Further, given the current level of demand for our products combined with industry-wide supply chain issues, we have experienced capacity constraints for certain products when demand has exceeded our current manufacturing capacity. As discussed in Liquidity and Capital Resources , we continue to focus on rebuilding inventory and expanding capacity through increased capital investments, which have resulted in an increased ability to meet customer demand. However, these capacity constraints have negatively impacted, and could continue to negatively impact, our market share, financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows, until we return to optimal service levels. Results of Operations We disclose in this report certain non-GAAP financial measures. These non-GAAP financial measures assist management in comparing our performance on a consistent basis for purposes of business decision-making by removing the impact of certain items that management believes do not directly reflect our underlying operations. For additional information and reconciliations to the most closely comparable financial measures presented in our consolidated financial statements, which are calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP see Non-GAAP Financial Measures. Consolidated Results of Operations Summary of Results: Net Sales: (a) Organic Net Sales is a non-GAAP financial measure. See the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section at the end of this item. 24 Fiscal Year 2022 Compared to Fiscal Year 2021: Net sales increased 1.7% to $26.5 billion in 2022 compared to $26.0 billion in 2021, including the unfavorable impacts of acquisitions and divestitures (8.0 pp) and foreign currency (2.0 pp) and the favorable impact of a 53rd week of shipments (1.9 pp). Organic Net Sales increased 9.8% to $26.2 billion in 2022 compared to $23.9 billion in 2021, primarily driven by higher pricing (13.2 pp), which more than offset unfavorable volume/mix (3.4 pp). Pricing was higher in both segments, while volume/mix was unfavorable in both segments. Net Income/(Loss): (a)    Adjusted EBITDA is a non-GAAP financial measure. See the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section at the end of this item. Fiscal Year 2022 Compared to Fiscal Year 2021: Operating income/(loss) increased 5.0% to $3.6 billion in 2022 compared to $3.5 billion in 2021, primarily driven by higher pricing, lower non-cash impairment losses in the current year period, efficiency gains, and the favorable impact of a 53rd week of shipments, which more than offset higher supply chain costs, reflecting inflationary pressure in procurement, logistics, and manufacturing costs; higher commodity costs (mainly in dairy, packaging materials, soybean and vegetable oils, energy, and meat); the unfavorable impact of acquisitions and divestitures; unfavorable volume/mix; and an accrual related to the previously disclosed securities class action lawsuit. Net income/(loss) increased 131.3% to $2.4 billion in 2022 compared to $1.0 billion in 2021. This increase was driven by lower interest expense, the operating income/(loss) factors discussed above, and lower tax expense, which more than offset unfavorable changes in other expense/(income). • Interest expense was $921 million in 2022 compared to $2.0 billion in 2021. This decrease was primarily due to a $38 million net gain on extinguishment of debt recognized in the current year period in connection with our debt repurchases in 2022 compared to a $917 million loss on extinguishment of debt recognized in the prior year period in connection with our tender offers, debt redemptions, and debt repurchases in 2021. The remaining change in interest expense was a decrease of approximately $171 million compared to the prior year period, as our aggregate principal amount of senior notes was reduced by approximately $6.2 billion in 2021 through tender offers, redemptions, repurchases, and repayments and approximately $1.5 billion in 2022 through repurchases and repayments. • Our effective tax rate was 20.2% in 2022 compared to 40.1% in 2021. Our 2022 effective tax rate was impacted by the favorable geographic mix of pre-tax income in various non-U.S. jurisdictions and certain favorable items, primarily the decrease in deferred tax liabilities due to the merger of certain foreign entities, the revaluation of deferred tax balances due to changes in state tax laws, and changes in estimates of certain 2021 U.S. income and deductions. This impact was partially offset by the impact of certain unfavorable items, primarily non-deductible goodwill impairments, the impact of the federal tax on global intangible low-taxed income (“GILTI”), and the establishment of uncertain tax positions and valuation allowance reserves. Our 2021 effective tax rate was unfavorably impacted by rate reconciling items, primarily the tax impacts related to acquisitions and divestitures, which mainly reflect the impacts of the Nuts Transaction and Cheese Transaction, partially offset by 2021 capital losses; the revaluation of our deferred tax balances due to changes in international and state tax rates, mainly an increase in U.K. tax rates; the impact of the federal tax on GILTI; and non-deductible goodwill impairments. These impacts were partially offset by a favorable geographic mix of pre-tax income in various non-U.S. jurisdictions. • Other expense/(income) was $253 million of income in 2022 compared to $295 million of income in 2021. This change was primarily driven by a $79 million decrease in net pension and postretirement non-service benefits and a $25 million net gain on sales of businesses in 2022 compared to a $44 million net gain on sales of businesses in 2021. These impacts were partially offset by a $50 million net loss on derivative activities in 2022 compared to an $86 million net loss on derivative activities in 2021 and a $12 million increase in interest income as compared to the prior year period. 25 Adjusted EBITDA decreased 5.8% to $6.0 billion in 2022 compared to $6.4 billion in 2021, primarily due to higher supply chain costs, reflecting inflationary pressure in procurement, logistics, and manufacturing costs; higher commodity costs (mainly in dairy, packaging materials, soybean and vegetable oils, energy, and meat); the unfavorable impact of acquisitions and divestitures (6.1 pp); unfavorable volume/mix; and the unfavorable impact of foreign currency (1.3 pp), which more than offset higher pricing, efficiency gains, and the favorable impact of a 53rd week of shipments (1.9 pp). Diluted Earnings Per Share (“EPS”): (a) Adjusted EPS is a non-GAAP financial measure. See the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section at the end of this item. Fiscal Year 2022 Compared to Fiscal Year 2021: Diluted EPS increased 132.9% to $1.91 in 2022 compared to $0.82 in 2021, primarily driven by the net income/(loss) factors discussed above. (a)     Adjusted EPS is a non-GAAP financial measure. See the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section at the end of this item. Adjusted EPS decreased 5.1% to $2.78 in 2022 compared to $2.93 in 2021 primarily due to lower Adjusted EBITDA, which includes the unfavorable impact of our divestitures, higher taxes on adjusted earnings, and unfavorable changes in other expense/(income), which more than offset lower interest expense, the favorable impact of a 53rd week of shipments, higher divestiture-related license income, and lower equity award compensation expense. 26 Results of Operations by Segment Management evaluates segment performance based on several factors, including net sales, Organic Net Sales, and Segment Adjusted EBITDA. Segment Adjusted EBITDA is defined as net income/(loss) from continuing operations before interest expense, other expense/(income), provision for/(benefit from) income taxes, and depreciation and amortization (excluding restructuring activities); in addition to these adjustments, we exclude, when they occur, the impacts of divestiture-related license income (e.g., income related to the sale of licenses in connection with the Cheese Transaction), restructuring activities, deal costs, unrealized gains/(losses) on commodity hedges (the unrealized gains and losses are recorded in general corporate expenses until realized; once realized, the gains and losses are recorded in the applicable segment’s operating results), impairment losses, certain non-ordinary course legal and regulatory matters, and equity award compensation expense (excluding restructuring activities). Segment Adjusted EBITDA is a tool that can assist management and investors in comparing our performance on a consistent basis by removing the impact of certain items that management believes do not directly reflect our underlying operations. Under highly inflationary accounting, the financial statements of a subsidiary are remeasured into our reporting currency (U.S. dollars) based on the legally available exchange rate at which we expect to settle the underlying transactions. Exchange gains and losses from the remeasurement of monetary assets and liabilities are reflected in other expense/(income) on our consolidated statement of income, as nonmonetary currency devaluation, rather than accumulated other comprehensive income/(losses) on our consolidated balance sheet, until such time as the economy is no longer considered highly inflationary. See Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies, in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , for additional information. We apply highly inflationary accounting to the results of our subsidiaries in Venezuela, Argentina, and Turkey, which are all in our International segment. Net Sales: Organic Net Sales: (a)     Organic Net Sales is a non-GAAP financial measure. See the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section at the end of this item. Drivers of the changes in net sales and Organic Net Sales were: 27 Adjusted EBITDA: North America: (a)     Organic Net Sales is a non-GAAP financial measure. See the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section at the end of this item. Fiscal Year 2022 Compared to Fiscal Year 2021: Net sales decreased 0.1% to $20.3 billion in 2022 compared to $20.4 billion in 2021, including the unfavorable impacts of divestitures (10.8 pp) and foreign currency (0.4 pp), partially offset by the favorable impact of a 53rd week of shipments (1.9 pp). Organic Net Sales increased 9.2% to $20.1 billion in 2022 compared to $18.4 billion in 2021, driven by higher pricing (13.0 pp), which more than offset unfavorable volume/mix (3.8 pp). Higher pricing was primarily driven by increases to mitigate rising input costs. Unfavorable volume/mix was primarily due to declines in frozen, meat, condiments and sauces, coffee, ready-to-drink beverages, and desserts. Segment Adjusted EBITDA decreased 5.2% to $5.3 billion in 2022 compared to $5.6 billion in 2021, primarily due to higher commodity costs (mainly in dairy, packaging materials, soybean and vegetable oils, meat, and energy); higher supply chain costs, reflecting inflationary pressure in procurement, logistics, and manufacturing costs; the unfavorable impact of the Cheese Transaction and Nuts Transaction (6.7 pp); unfavorable volume/mix; and the unfavorable impact of foreign currency (0.2 pp). These decreases to Segment Adjusted EBITDA more than offset higher pricing, efficiency gains, and the favorable impact of a 53rd week of shipments (1.9 pp). 28 International: (a)    Organic Net Sales is a non-GAAP financial measure. See the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section at the end of this item. Fiscal Year 2022 Compared to Fiscal Year 2021: Net sales increased 8.0% to $6.1 billion in 2022 compared to $5.7 billion in 2021, including the favorable impacts of acquisitions and divestitures (2.8 pp) and a 53rd week of shipments (1.7 pp) and the unfavorable impact of foreign currency (8.1 pp). Organic Net Sales increased 11.6% to $6.2 billion in 2022 compared to $5.6 billion in 2021, driven by higher pricing (13.5 pp), which more than offset unfavorable volume/mix (1.9 pp). Higher pricing included increases across markets primarily to mitigate rising input costs. Unfavorable volume/mix was primarily due to declines across categories in Australia and New Zealand, declines in boxed dinners and condiments and sauces in the United Kingdom, and declines in condiments and sauces and infant nutrition in Russia, which more than offset higher foodservice sales across most markets and growth in Brazil. Segment Adjusted EBITDA decreased 4.6% to $1.0 billion in 2022 compared to $1.1 billion in 2021, primarily due to higher supply chain costs, reflecting inflationary pressure in procurement, logistics, and manufacturing costs; higher commodity costs, including in packaging and energy; the unfavorable impact of foreign currency (7.2 pp); and unfavorable volume/mix, which more than offset higher pricing, efficiency gains, and the favorable impact of a 53rd week of shipments (1.6 pp). Liquidity and Capital Resources We believe that cash generated from our operating activities, commercial paper programs, and Senior Credit Facility will provide sufficient liquidity to meet our working capital needs, repayments of long-term debt, future contractual obligations, payment of our anticipated quarterly dividends, planned capital expenditures, restructuring expenditures, and contributions to our postemployment benefit plans for the next 12 months. An additional potential source of liquidity is access to capital markets. We intend to use our cash on hand and commercial paper programs for daily funding requirements. Acquisitions and Divestitures: In the first quarter of 2022, we closed the Just Spices Acquisition for cash consideration of approximately $243 million. In the second quarter of 2022, we closed the Hemmer Acquisition for cash consideration of approximately $279 million. In the fourth quarter of 2022, we received approximately $108 million of cash consideration following the closing of the Powdered Cheese Transaction. In the second quarter of 2021, we received approximately $3.4 billion of cash consideration following the closing of the Nuts Transaction. In connection with the Nuts Transaction, we paid approximately $700 million of cash taxes in the second half of 2021, primarily to U.S. federal and state tax authorities. We primarily utilized the post-tax transaction proceeds, along with cash on hand, to fund opportunistic repayments of long-term debt, including our tender offers in the second quarter of 2021 and our debt redemption and open market debt repurchases in the third quarter of 2021. In the fourth quarter of 2021, we received approximately $3.2 billion of cash consideration following the closing of the Cheese Transaction. In connection with the Cheese Transaction, we paid approximately $620 million of cash taxes in the second quarter of 2022, primarily to U.S. federal and state tax authorities. We primarily utilized the post-tax transaction proceeds to fund our open market debt repurchases and tender offer in the fourth quarter of 2021. Additionally, in the fourth quarter of 2021, we completed the Assan Foods Acquisition, which included cash consideration of approximately $70 million, and the BR Spices Acquisition for an insignificant amount of cash consideration. See Note 4, Acquisitions and Divestitures , in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , for additional information on our acquisitions and divestitures. See Note 16, Debt , in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , for additional information on our debt transactions. 29 Cash Flow Activity for 2022 Compared to 2021: Net Cash Provided by/Used for Operating Activities: Net cash provided by operating activities was $2.5 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to $5.4 billion for the year ended December 25, 2021. This decrease was primarily driven by proceeds from the sale of licenses in connection with the Cheese Transaction in 2021, higher cash outflows for inventories, primarily related to stock rebuilding, increased input costs, and the acceleration of payments to suppliers attributed to the wind-down of our existing product financing arrangements, as well as lower Adjusted EBITDA. These impacts were partially offset by lower cash outflows for interest primarily due to the reduction of long-term debt throughout 2022 and 2021. Net Cash Provided by/Used for Investing Activities: Net cash used for investing activities was $1.1 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to net cash provided by investing activities of $4.0 billion for the year ended December 25, 2021. This decrease was primarily driven by proceeds from the Nuts Transaction and Cheese Transaction in 2021, as well as payments for the Just Spices Acquisition and Hemmer Acquisition in 2022. These impacts were partially offset by increased proceeds from the settlement of net investment hedges and proceeds from the Powdered Cheese Transaction in 2022. We had 2022 capital expenditures of $916 million compared to 2021 capital expenditures of $905 million. We expect 2023 capital expenditures to be approximately $1.1 billion, primarily driven by capital investments for capacity expansion, maintenance, cost improvement and innovation projects, and technology. Net Cash Provided by/Used for Financing Activities: Net cash used for financing activities was $3.7 billion for the year ended December 31, 2022 compared to $9.3 billion for the year ended December 25, 2021. This change was primarily due to higher repayments of long-term debt and debt prepayment and extinguishment costs in 2021 related to our tender offers, debt repurchases, and debt redemptions in 2021. See Note 16, Debt , in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , for additional information on our debt repayments. Cash Held by International Subsidiaries: Of the $1.0 billion cash and cash equivalents on our consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2022, $707 million was held by international subsidiaries. Subsequent to January 1, 2018, we consider the unremitted earnings of certain international subsidiaries that impose local country taxes on dividends to be indefinitely reinvested. For those undistributed earnings considered to be indefinitely reinvested, our intent is to reinvest these funds in our international operations, and our current plans do not demonstrate a need to repatriate the accumulated earnings to fund our U.S. cash requirements. The amount of unrecognized deferred tax liabilities for local country withholding taxes that would be owed, if repatriated, related to our 2018 through 2022 accumulated earnings of certain international subsidiaries is approximately $50 million. Our undistributed historic earnings in foreign subsidiaries through December 31, 2017 are currently not considered to be indefinitely reinvested. Related to these undistributed historic earnings, we had recorded a deferred tax liability of approximately $10 million on approximately $90 million of historic earnings at December 31, 2022 and a deferred tax liability of approximately $10 million on approximately $135 million of historic earnings at December 25, 2021. The deferred tax liability relates to local withholding taxes that will be owed when this cash is distributed. Trade Payables Programs: In order to manage our cash flow and related liquidity, we work with our suppliers to optimize our terms and conditions, which include the extension of payment terms. Our current payment terms with our suppliers, which we deem to be commercially reasonable, generally range from 0 to 200 days. We also maintain agreements with third party administrators that allow participating suppliers to track payment obligations from us, and, at the sole discretion of the supplier, sell one or more of those payment obligations to participating financial institutions. We have no economic interest in a supplier’s decision to enter into these agreements and no direct financial relationship with the financial institutions. Our obligations to our suppliers, including amounts due and scheduled payment terms, are not impacted. Supplier participation in these agreements is voluntary. We estimate that the amounts outstanding under these programs were $1.1 billion at December 31, 2022 and $820 million at December 25, 2021. Product Financing Arrangements: We enter into various product financing arrangements to facilitate supply from our vendors. In the fourth quarter of 2022, we began to wind-down our existing product financing arrangements, with final impacts of the wind-down expected to extend into 2023. We continue to have access to these programs to facilitate supply from our vendors in the future, if we choose to do so. See Note 14, Financing Arrangements , in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , for additional information on our product financing arrangements. 30 Borrowing Arrangements: As of the date of this filing, our long-term debt is rated BBB- by S&P Global Ratings (“S&P”), BBB by Fitch Ratings (“Fitch”) and Baa3 by Moody’s Investor Services, Inc. (“Moody’s”), with a positive outlook from S&P and a stable outlook from Fitch and Moody’s. In February 2020, Fitch and S&P downgraded our long-term credit rating from BBB- to BB+. These downgrades adversely affected our ability to access the commercial paper market. These downgrades did not constitute a default or event of default under any of our debt instruments. Our ability to borrow under the Senior Credit Facility was not affected by the downgrades. Our long-term credit rating was upgraded from BB+ to BBB- by S&P in March 2022 and by Fitch in May 2022. Fitch upgraded our long-term debt credit rating from BBB- to BBB in November 2022. From time to time, we obtain funding through our commercial paper programs. We had no commercial paper outstanding at December 31, 2022, at December 25, 2021, or during the year ended December 25, 2021. The maximum amount of commercial paper outstanding during the year ended December 31, 2022 was $198 million, under our U.S. commercial paper program. Our Senior Credit Facility provides for a revolving commitment of $4.0 billion through July 8, 2027. Subject to certain conditions, we may increase the amount of revolving commitments and/or add tranches of term loans in a combined aggregate amount of up to $1.0 billion. No amounts were drawn on our Senior Credit Facility at December 31, 2022, our previous credit facility (the “Previous Senior Credit Facility”) at December 25, 2021, or on either the Senior Credit Facility or Previous Senior Credit Facility during the years ended December 31, 2022 and December 25, 2021. Our credit agreement contains customary representations, warranties, and covenants that are typical for these types of facilities and could, upon the occurrence of certain events of default, restrict our ability to access our Senior Credit Facility. We were in compliance with all financial covenants as of December 31, 2022. Long-Term Debt: Our long-term debt, including the current portion, was $20.1 billion at December 31, 2022 and $21.8 billion at December 25, 2021. This decrease was primarily due to approximately $315 million aggregate principal amount of floating rate senior notes that were repaid at maturity in August 2022, approximately $381 million aggregate principal amount of senior notes that were repaid at maturity in June 2022, approximately $6 million aggregate principal amount of senior notes that were repaid at maturity in March 2022, and approximately $755 million aggregate principal amount of senior notes repurchased in connection with the debt repurchases in 2022, as well as changes in foreign currency exchange rates on our foreign-denominated debt. We used cash on hand to fund our debt repurchases in 2022 and to pay related fees and expenses. We have aggregate principal amounts of senior notes of approximately 750 million euros maturing in June 2023. We may from time to time seek to retire or purchase our outstanding debt through redemptions, tender offers, cash purchases, prepayments, refinancing, exchange offers, open market or privately negotiated transactions, Rule 10b5-1 plans, or otherwise. Our long-term debt contains customary representations, covenants, and events of default. We were in compliance with all financial covenants as of December 31, 2022. See Note 16, Debt , in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , for additional information on our long-term debt activity. Equity and Dividends: We paid dividends on our common stock of $2.0 billion in 2022, 2021, and 2020, respectively. Additionally, in the first quarter of 2023, our Board declared a cash dividend of $0.40 per share of common stock, which is payable on March 31, 2023 to stockholders of record on March 10, 2023. The declaration of dividends is subject to the discretion of our Board and depends on various factors, including our net income, financial condition, cash requirements, future prospects, and other factors that our Board deems relevant to its analysis and decision making. 31 Aggregate Contractual Obligations: Related to our current and long-term material cash requirements, the following table summarizes our aggregate contractual obligations at December 31, 2022, which we expect to primarily fund with cash from operating activities (in millions): (a)    Amounts represent the expected cash payments of our long-term debt, including interest on long-term debt. (b)    Amounts represent the expected cash payments of our finance leases, including expected cash payments of interest expense. (c)    Operating leases represent the minimum rental commitments under non-cancellable operating leases net of sublease income. (d)    We have purchase obligations for materials, supplies, property, plant and equipment, and co-packing, storage, and distribution services based on projected needs to be utilized in the normal course of business. Other purchase obligations include commitments for marketing, advertising, capital expenditures, information technology, and professional services. Arrangements are considered purchase obligations if a contract specifies all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased, a pricing structure, and approximate timing of the transaction. Several of these obligations are long-term and are based on minimum purchase requirements. Certain purchase obligations contain variable pricing components, and, as a result, actual cash payments are expected to fluctuate based on changes in these variable components. Due to the proprietary nature of some of our materials and processes, certain supply contracts contain penalty provisions for early terminations. We do not believe that a material amount of penalties is reasonably likely to be incurred under these contracts based upon historical experience and current expectations. (e)    Other long-term liabilities primarily consist of estimated payments for the one-time toll charge related to 2017 U.S. tax reform, as well as postretirement benefit commitments. Certain other long-term liabilities related to income taxes, insurance accruals, and other accruals included on the consolidated balance sheet are excluded from the above table as we are unable to estimate the timing of payments for these items. Pension plan contributions were $11 million in 2022. We estimate that 2023 pension plan contributions will be approximately $11 million. Postretirement benefit plan contributions were $12 million in 2022. We estimate that 2023 postretirement benefit plan contributions will be approximately $12 million. Estimated future contributions take into consideration current economic conditions, which at this time are expected to have minimal impact on expected contributions for 2023. Beyond 2023, we are unable to reliably estimate the timing of contributions to our pension or postretirement plans. Our actual contributions and plans may change due to many factors, including changes in tax, employee benefit, or other laws and regulations, tax deductibility, significant differences between expected and actual pension or postretirement asset performance or interest rates, or other factors. As such, estimated pension and postretirement plan contributions for 2023 have been excluded from the above table. At December 31, 2022, the amount of net unrecognized tax benefits for uncertain tax positions, including an accrual of related interest and penalties along with positions only impacting the timing of tax benefits, was approximately $555 million. The timing of payments will depend on the progress of examinations with tax authorities. We are unable to make a reasonably reliable estimate as to if or when any significant cash settlements with taxing authorities may occur; therefore, we have excluded the amount of net unrecognized tax benefits from the above table. Supplemental Guarantor Information: The Kraft Heinz Company (as the “Parent Guarantor”) fully and unconditionally guarantees all the senior unsecured registered notes (collectively, the “KHFC Senior Notes”) issued by Kraft Heinz Foods Company (“KHFC”), our 100% owned operating subsidiary (the “Guarantee”). See Note 16, Debt , in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , for additional descriptions of these guarantees. The payment of the principal, premium, and interest on the KHFC Senior Notes is fully and unconditionally guaranteed on a senior unsecured basis by the Parent Guarantor, pursuant to the terms and conditions of the applicable indenture. None of the Parent Guarantor’s subsidiaries guarantee the KHFC Senior Notes. The Guarantee is the Parent Guarantor’s senior unsecured obligation and is: (i) pari passu in right of payment with all of the Parent Guarantor’s existing and future senior indebtedness; (ii) senior in right of payment to all of the Parent Guarantor’s future subordinated indebtedness; (iii) effectively subordinated to all of the Parent Guarantor’s existing and future secured indebtedness to the extent of the value of the assets secured by that indebtedness; and (iv) effectively subordinated to all existing and future indebtedness and other liabilities of the Parent Guarantor’s subsidiaries. The KHFC Senior Notes are obligations exclusively of KHFC and the Parent Guarantor and not of any of the Parent Guarantor’s other subsidiaries. Substantially all of the Parent Guarantor’s operations are conducted through its subsidiaries. The Parent Guarantor’s other subsidiaries are separate legal entities that have no obligation to pay any amounts due under the KHFC 32 Senior Notes or to make any funds available therefor, whether by dividends, loans, or other payments. Except to the extent the Parent Guarantor is a creditor with recognized claims against its subsidiaries, all claims of creditors (including trade creditors) and holders of preferred stock, if any, of its subsidiaries will have priority with respect to the assets of such subsidiaries over its claims (and therefore the claims of its creditors, including holders of the KHFC Senior Notes). Consequently, the KHFC Senior Notes are structurally subordinated to all liabilities of the Parent Guarantor’s subsidiaries and any subsidiaries that it may in the future acquire or establish. The obligations of the Parent Guarantor will terminate and be of no further force or effect in the following circumstances: (i) (a) KHFC’s exercise of its legal defeasance option or, except in the case of a guarantee of any direct or indirect parent of KHFC, covenant defeasance option in accordance with the applicable indenture, or KHFC’s obligations under the applicable indenture have been discharged in accordance with the terms of the applicable indenture or (b) as specified in a supplemental indenture to the applicable indenture; and (ii) the Parent Guarantor has delivered to the trustee an officer’s certificate and an opinion of counsel, each stating that all conditions precedent provided for in the applicable indenture have been complied with. The Guarantee is limited by its terms to an amount not to exceed the maximum amount that can be guaranteed by the Parent Guarantor without rendering the Guarantee voidable under applicable law relating to fraudulent conveyance or fraudulent transfer or similar laws affecting the rights of creditors generally. The following tables present summarized financial information for the Parent Guarantor and KHFC (as subsidiary issuer of the KHFC Senior Notes) (together, the “Obligor Group”), on a combined basis after the elimination of all intercompany balances and transactions between the Parent Guarantor and subsidiary issuer and investments in any subsidiary that is a non-guarantor. Summarized Statement of Income (a)    In 2022, the Obligor Group recorded $398 million of net sales to the non-guarantor subsidiaries and $38 million of purchases from the non-guarantor subsidiaries. Summarized Balance Sheets (a)    Represents receivables and short-term lending due from and payables and short-term lending due to non-guarantor subsidiaries. (b)    Represents long-term lending due from and long-term borrowings due to non-guarantor subsidiaries. 33 Commodity Trends We purchase and use large quantities of commodities, including dairy products, meat products, soybean and vegetable oils, tomatoes, coffee beans, sugar and other sweeteners, other fruits and vegetables, corn products, wheat products, and potatoes, to manufacture our products. In addition, we purchase and use significant quantities of resins, fiberboard, metals, and cardboard to package our products, and we use electricity, diesel fuel, and natural gas in the manufacturing and distribution of our products. We continuously monitor worldwide supply and cost trends of these commodities. During the year ended December 31, 2022, we experienced higher commodity costs primarily for dairy, packaging materials, soybean and vegetable oils, energy (including diesel fuel, electricity, and natural gas), and meat as compared to the prior year period. These increases were primarily driven by overall market demand, inflationary pressures, and, in part, by the negative impact of the conflict between Russia and Ukraine on the global economy. We anticipate commodity costs to continue to increase and inflation to remain elevated through 2023. We manage commodity cost volatility primarily through pricing and risk management strategies. As a result of these risk management strategies, our commodity costs may not immediately correlate with market price trends. In 2022, dairy commodities, primarily milk, cream, and cheese, were the most significant cost components of our cheese products. We purchase our dairy raw material requirements from independent third parties, such as agricultural cooperatives and independent processors. Market supply and demand, as well as government programs, significantly influence the prices for milk and other dairy products. Significant cost components of our meat products include pork, beef, and poultry, which we primarily purchase from applicable local markets. Livestock feed costs and the global supply and demand for U.S. meats influence the prices of these meat products. Critical Accounting Estimates Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies , in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , includes a summary of the significant accounting policies we used to prepare our consolidated financial statements. The following is a review of the more significant assumptions and estimates as well as accounting policies we used to prepare our consolidated financial statements. Revenue Recognition: Our revenues are primarily derived from customer orders for the purchase of our products. We recognize revenues as performance obligations are fulfilled when control passes to our customers. We record revenues net of variable consideration, including consumer incentives and performance obligations related to trade promotions, excluding taxes, and including all shipping and handling charges billed to customers (accounting for shipping and handling charges that occur after the transfer of control as fulfillment costs). We also record a refund liability for estimated product returns and customer allowances as reductions to revenues within the same period that the revenue is recognized. We base these estimates principally on historical and current period experience factors. We recognize costs paid to third party brokers to obtain contracts as expenses as our contracts are generally less than one year. Advertising, Consumer Incentives, and Trade Promotions: We promote our products with advertising, consumer incentives, and performance obligations related to trade promotions. Consumer incentives and trade promotions include, but are not limited to, discounts, coupons, rebates, performance-based in-store display activities, and volume-based incentives. Variable consideration related to consumer incentive and trade promotion activities is recorded as a reduction to revenues based on amounts estimated as being due to customers and consumers at the end of a period. We base these estimates principally on historical utilization, redemption rates, and/or current period experience factors. We review and adjust these estimates at least quarterly based on actual experience and other information. Advertising expenses are recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses (“SG&A”). For interim reporting purposes, we charge advertising to operations as a percentage of estimated full year sales activity and marketing costs. We then review and adjust these estimates each quarter based on actual experience and other information. Our definition of advertising expenses includes advertising production costs, in-store advertising costs, agency fees, brand promotions and events, and sponsorships, in addition to costs to obtain advertising in television, radio, print, digital, and social channels. We recorded advertising expenses of $945 million in 2022, $1,039 million in 2021, and $1,070 million in 2020. We also incur market research costs, which are recorded in SG&A but are excluded from advertising expenses. Goodwill and Intangible Assets: As of December 31, 2022, we maintain 11 reporting units, seven of which comprise our goodwill balance. These seven reporting units had an aggregate goodwill carrying amount of $30.8 billion at December 31, 2022. Our indefinite-lived intangible asset balance primarily consists of a number of individual brands, which had an aggregate carrying amount of $38.6 billion as of December 31, 2022. 34 We test our reporting units and brands for impairment annually as of the first day of our third quarter, or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit or brand is less than its carrying amount. Such events and circumstances could include a sustained decrease in our market capitalization, increased competition or unexpected loss of market share, increased input costs beyond projections, disposals of significant brands or components of our business, unexpected business disruptions (for example due to a natural disaster, pandemic, or loss of a customer, supplier, or other significant business relationship), unexpected significant declines in operating results, significant adverse changes in the markets in which we operate, changes in income tax rates, changes in interest rates, or changes in management strategy. We test reporting units for impairment by comparing the estimated fair value of each reporting unit with its carrying amount. We test brands for impairment by comparing the estimated fair value of each brand with its carrying amount. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit or brand exceeds its estimated fair value, we record an impairment loss based on the difference between fair value and carrying amount, in the case of reporting units, not to exceed the associated carrying amount of goodwill. See Note 8, Goodwill and Intangible Assets , in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , for a discussion of the timing of the annual impairment test. Fair value determinations require considerable judgment and are sensitive to changes in underlying assumptions, estimates, and market factors. Estimating the fair value of individual reporting units and brands requires us to make assumptions and estimates regarding our future plans, as well as industry, economic, and regulatory conditions. These assumptions and estimates include estimated future annual net cash flows, income tax considerations, discount rates, growth rates, royalty rates, contributory asset charges, and other market factors. Our current expectations also include certain assumptions that could be negatively impacted if we are unable to meet our pricing expectations in relation to inflation. If current expectations of future growth rates and margins are not met, if market factors outside of our control, such as discount rates, income tax rates, foreign currency exchange rates, or inflation, change, or if management’s expectations or plans otherwise change, including updates to our long-term operating plans, then one or more of our reporting units or brands might become impaired in the future. Additionally, any decisions to divest certain non-strategic assets has led, and could in the future lead, to goodwill or intangible asset impairments. As detailed in Note 8, Goodwill and Intangible Assets , in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , we recorded impairment losses related to goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets. Our reporting units and brands that were impaired were written down to their respective fair values resulting in zero excess fair value over carrying amount as of the applicable impairment test dates. Accordingly, these and other reporting units and brands that have 20% or less excess fair value over carrying amount as of the Q3 2022 Annual Impairment Test have a heightened risk of future impairments if any assumptions, estimates, or market factors change in the future. Reporting units with 20% or less fair value over carrying amount had an aggregate goodwill carrying amount after impairment of $16.4 billion as of the Q3 2022 Annual Impairment Test and included Taste, Meals, and Away from Home (TMA), Canada and North America Coffee (CNAC), and Continental Europe. Reporting units with between 20-50% fair value over carrying amount had an aggregate goodwill carrying amount of $14.5 billion as of the Q3 2022 Annual Impairment Test and included Fresh, Beverages, and Desserts (FBD), Northern Europe, Asia, and Latin America (LATAM). Our reporting units that have less than 1% excess fair value over carrying amount as of the Q3 2022 Annual Impairment Test are considered at a heightened risk of future impairments and include our CNAC and Continental Europe reporting units, which had an aggregate goodwill carrying amount after impairment of $2.4 billion. Our four remaining reporting units had no goodwill carrying amount at the time of the Q3 2022 Annual Impairment Test. Brands with 20% or less fair value over carrying amount had an aggregate carrying amount after impairment of $16.6 billion as of the Q3 2022 Annual Impairment Test and included Kraft , Oscar Mayer , Miracle Whip , Ore-Ida , Maxwell House , Cool Whip , Jet Puffed , and Plasmon . The aggregate carrying amount of brands with fair value over carrying amount between 20-50% was $2.5 billion as of the Q3 2022 Annual Impairment Test. Although the remaining brands, with a carrying amount of $19.4 billion, have more than 50% excess fair value over carrying amount as of the Q3 2022 Annual Impairment Test, these amounts are also associated with the 2013 Heinz Acquisition and the 2015 Merger and were initially recorded at the time of acquisition on our consolidated balance sheet at their estimated acquisition date fair values. Therefore, if any assumptions, estimates, or market factors change in the future, these amounts are also susceptible to impairments. Our brands that have less than 5% excess fair value over carrying amount as of the Q3 2022 Annual Impairment Test are considered at a heightened risk of future impairments and include our Kraft , Ore-Ida , Jet Puffed , and Plasmon brands, which had an aggregate carrying amount of $11.3 billion. We generally utilize the discounted cash flow method under the income approach to estimate the fair value of our reporting units. Some of the more significant assumptions inherent in estimating the fair values include the estimated future annual net cash flows for each reporting unit (including net sales, cost of products sold, SG&A, depreciation and amortization, working capital, and capital expenditures), income tax rates, long-term growth rates, and a discount rate that appropriately reflects the risks inherent in each future cash flow stream. We selected the assumptions used in the financial forecasts using historical data, supplemented by current and anticipated market conditions, estimated product category growth rates, management’s plans, and guideline companies. 35 We utilize the excess earnings method under the income approach to estimate the fair value of certain of our largest brands. Some of the more significant assumptions inherent in estimating the fair values include the estimated future annual net cash flows for each brand (including net sales, cost of products sold, and SG&A), contributory asset charges, income tax considerations, long-term growth rates, a discount rate that reflects the level of risk associated with the future earnings attributable to the brand, and management’s intent to invest in the brand indefinitely. We selected the assumptions used in the financial forecasts using historical data, supplemented by current and anticipated market conditions, estimated product category growth rates, management’s plans, and guideline companies. We utilize the relief from royalty method under the income approach to estimate the fair value of our remaining brands. Some of the more significant assumptions inherent in estimating the fair values include the estimated future annual net sales for each brand, royalty rates (as a percentage of net sales that would hypothetically be charged by a licensor of the brand to an unrelated licensee), income tax considerations, long-term growth rates, a discount rate that reflects the level of risk associated with the future cost savings attributable to the brand, and management’s intent to invest in the brand indefinitely. We selected the assumptions used in the financial forecasts using historical data, supplemented by current and anticipated market conditions, estimated product category growth rates, management’s plans, and guideline companies. As detailed in Note 4, Acquisitions and Divestitures , in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , the Cheese Transaction closed in the fourth quarter of 2021. We received total consideration of approximately $3.3 billion, which included approximately $1.6 billion primarily attributed to the Kraft and Velveeta licenses that we granted to Lactalis and approximately $141 million attributed to the Cracker Barrel license that Lactalis granted to us, the amounts of which were based on the estimated fair values of the licensed portion of each brand as of the closing date of the Cheese Transaction. In the fourth quarter of 2021, at the time the licensed rights were granted, we reassessed the remaining fair value of the retained portions of the Kraft and Velveeta brands and recorded a non-cash intangible asset impairment loss related to the Kraft brand of approximately $1.24 billion, which was recognized in SG&A. The discount rates, long-term growth rates, and royalty rates used to estimate the fair values of our reporting units and our brands with 20% or less excess fair value over carrying amount, as well as the goodwill or brand carrying amounts, as of the Q3 2022 Annual Impairment Test for each reporting unit or brand, were as follows: Assumptions used in impairment testing are made at a point in time and require significant judgment; therefore, they are subject to change based on the facts and circumstances present at each annual and interim impairment test date. Additionally, these assumptions are generally interdependent and do not change in isolation. However, as it is reasonably possible that changes in assumptions could occur, as a sensitivity measure, we have presented the estimated effects of isolated changes in discount rates, long-term growth rates, and royalty rates on the fair values of our reporting units and brands with 20% or less excess fair value over carrying amount. These estimated changes in fair value are not necessarily representative of the actual impairment that would be recorded in the event of a fair value decline. If we had changed the assumptions used to estimate the fair value of our reporting units and brands with 20% or less excess fair value over carrying amount, as of the Q3 2022 Annual Impairment Test for each of these reporting units and brands, these isolated changes, which are reasonably possible to occur, would have led to the following increase/(decrease) in the aggregate fair value of these reporting units and brands (in billions): 36 Definite-lived intangible assets are amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated periods benefited. We review definite-lived intangible assets for impairment when conditions exist that indicate the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable. Such conditions could include significant adverse changes in the business climate, current-period operating or cash flow losses, significant declines in forecasted operations, or a current expectation that an asset group will be disposed of before the end of its useful life. We perform undiscounted operating cash flow analyses to determine if an impairment exists. When testing for impairment of definite-lived intangible assets held for use, we group assets at the lowest level for which cash flows are separately identifiable. If an impairment is determined to exist, the loss is calculated based on estimated fair value. Impairment losses on definite-lived intangible assets to be disposed of, if any, are based on the estimated proceeds to be received, less costs of disposal. See Note 8, Goodwill and Intangible Assets , in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , for our impairment testing results. Postemployment Benefit Plans: We maintain various retirement plans for the majority of our employees. These include pension benefits, postretirement health care benefits, and defined contribution benefits. The cost of these plans is charged to expense over an appropriate term based on, among other things, the cost component and whether the plan is active or inactive. Changes in the fair value of our plan assets result in net actuarial gains or losses. These net actuarial gains and losses are deferred into accumulated other comprehensive income/(losses) and amortized within other expense/(income) in future periods using the corridor approach. The corridor is 10% of the greater of the market-related value of the plan’s asset or projected benefit obligation. Any actuarial gains and losses in excess of the corridor are then amortized over an appropriate term based on whether the plan is active or inactive. For our postretirement benefit plans, our 2023 health care cost trend rate assumption will be 6.6%. We established this rate based upon our most recent experience as well as our expectation for health care trend rates going forward. We anticipate the weighted average assumed ultimate trend rate will be 4.8%. The year in which the ultimate trend rate is reached varies by plan, ranging between the years 2023 and 2030. Assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts reported for the health care plans. Our 2023 discount rate assumption will be 5.5% for service cost and 5.4% for interest cost for our postretirement plans. Our 2023 discount rate assumption will be 5.7% for service cost and 5.5% for interest cost for our U.S. pension plans and 5.3% for service cost and 5.0% for interest cost for our non-U.S. pension plans. We model these discount rates using a portfolio of high quality, fixed-income debt instruments with durations that match the expected future cash flows of the plans. Changes in our discount rates were primarily the result of changes in bond yields year-over-year. Our 2023 expected return on plan assets will be 6.3% (net of applicable taxes) for our postretirement plans. Our 2023 expected rate of return on plan assets will be 6.6% for our U.S. pension plans and 5.1% for our non-U.S. pension plans. We determine our expected rate of return on plan assets from the plan assets’ historical long-term investment performance, current and future asset allocation, and estimates of future long-term returns by asset class. We attempt to maintain our target asset allocation by re-balancing between asset classes as we make contributions and monthly benefit payments. While we do not anticipate further changes in the 2023 assumptions for our U.S. and non-U.S. pension and postretirement benefit plans, as a sensitivity measure, a 100-basis-point change in our discount rate or a 100-basis-point change in the expected rate of return on plan assets would have the following effects, increase/(decrease) in cost (in millions): 37 Income Taxes: We compute our annual tax rate based on the statutory tax rates and tax planning opportunities available to us in the various jurisdictions in which we earn income. Significant judgment is required in determining our annual tax rate and in evaluating the uncertainty of our tax positions. We recognize a benefit for tax positions that we believe will more likely than not be sustained upon examination. The amount of benefit recognized is the largest amount of benefit that we believe has more than a 50% probability of being realized upon settlement. We regularly monitor our tax positions and adjust the amount of recognized tax benefit based on our evaluation of information that has become available since the end of our last financial reporting period. The annual tax rate includes the impact of these changes in recognized tax benefits. When adjusting the amount of recognized tax benefits, we do not consider information that has become available after the balance sheet date, however we do disclose the effects of new information whenever those effects would be material to our financial statements. Unrecognized tax benefits represent the difference between the amount of benefit taken or expected to be taken in a tax return and the amount of benefit recognized for financial reporting. These unrecognized tax benefits are recorded primarily within other non-current liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets. We record valuation allowances to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. When assessing the need for valuation allowances, we consider future taxable income and ongoing prudent and feasible tax planning strategies. Should a change in circumstances lead to a change in judgment about the realizability of deferred tax assets in future years, we would adjust related valuation allowances in the period that the change in circumstances occurs, along with a corresponding increase or decrease to income. The resolution of tax reserves and changes in valuation allowances could be material to our results of operations for any period but is not expected to be material to our financial position. New Accounting Pronouncements See Note 3, New Accounting Standards , in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , for a discussion of new accounting pronouncements. Contingencies See Note 15, Commitments and Contingencies , in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , for a discussion of our contingencies. Non-GAAP Financial Measures The non-GAAP financial measures we provide in this report should be viewed in addition to, and not as an alternative for, results prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. To supplement the consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, we have presented Organic Net Sales, Adjusted EBITDA, and Adjusted EPS, which are considered non-GAAP financial measures. The non-GAAP financial measures presented may differ from similarly titled non-GAAP financial measures presented by other companies, and other companies may not define these non-GAAP financial measures in the same way. These measures are not substitutes for their comparable U.S. GAAP financial measures, such as net sales, net income/(loss), diluted EPS, or other measures prescribed by U.S. GAAP, and there are limitations to using non-GAAP financial measures. Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures to assist in comparing our performance on a consistent basis for purposes of business decision making by removing the impact of certain items that management believes do not directly reflect our underlying operations. We believe that Organic Net Sales, Adjusted EBITDA, and Adjusted EPS provide important comparability of underlying operating results, allowing investors and management to assess the Company’s operating performance on a consistent basis. Management believes that presenting our non-GAAP financial measures is useful to investors because it (i) provides investors with meaningful supplemental information regarding financial performance by excluding certain items, (ii) permits investors to view performance using the same tools that management uses to budget, make operating and strategic decisions, and evaluate historical performance, and (iii) otherwise provides supplemental information that may be useful to investors in evaluating our results. We believe that the presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures, when considered together with the corresponding U.S. GAAP financial measures and the reconciliations to those measures, provides investors with additional understanding of the factors and trends affecting our business than could be obtained absent these disclosures. Organic Net Sales is defined as net sales excluding, when they occur, the impact of currency, acquisitions and divestitures, and a 53rd week of shipments. We calculate the impact of currency on net sales by holding exchange rates constant at the previous year’s exchange rate, with the exception of highly inflationary subsidiaries, for which we calculate the previous year’s results using the current year’s exchange rate. 38 Adjusted EBITDA is defined as net income/(loss) from continuing operations before interest expense, other expense/(income), provision for/(benefit from) income taxes, and depreciation and amortization (excluding restructuring activities); in addition to these adjustments, we exclude, when they occur, the impacts of divestiture-related license income (e.g., income related to the sale of licenses in connection with the Cheese Transaction), restructuring activities, deal costs, unrealized losses/(gains) on commodity hedges, impairment losses, certain non-ordinary course legal and regulatory matters, and equity award compensation expense (excluding restructuring activities). Adjusted EPS is defined as diluted EPS excluding, when they occur, the impacts of restructuring activities, deal costs, unrealized losses/(gains) on commodity hedges, impairment losses, certain non-ordinary course legal and regulatory matters, losses/(gains) on the sale of a business, other losses/(gains) related to acquisitions and divestitures (e.g., tax and hedging impacts), nonmonetary currency devaluation (e.g., remeasurement gains and losses), debt prepayment and extinguishment (benefit)/costs, and certain significant discrete income tax items (e.g., U.S. and non-U.S. tax reform), and including, when they occur, adjustments to reflect preferred stock dividend payments on an accrual basis. 39 The Kraft Heinz Company Reconciliation of Net Sales to Organic Net Sales (dollars in millions) (Unaudited) 40 The Kraft Heinz Company Reconciliation of Net Income/(Loss) to Adjusted EBITDA (in millions) (Unaudited) 41 The Kraft Heinz Company Reconciliation of Diluted EPS to Adjusted EPS (Unaudited) (a)    Gross expenses/(income) included in restructuring activities were expenses of $74 million ($56 million after-tax) in 2022 and $84 million ($64 million after-tax) in 2021 and were recorded in the following income statement line items: • Cost of products sold included expenses of $27 million in 2022 and $13 million in 2021; • SG&A included expenses of $47 million in 2022 and $70 million in 2021; and • Other expense/(income) included expenses of $1 million in 2021. (b)    Gross expenses/(income) included in unrealized losses/(gains) on commodity hedges were expenses of $63 million ($48 million after-tax) in 2022 and $17 million ($13 million after-tax) in 2021 and were recorded in cost of products sold. (c)    Gross impairment losses included the following: • Goodwill impairment losses of $444 million ($444 million after-tax) in 2022 and $318 million ($318 million after-tax) in 2021, which were recorded in SG&A; • Intangible asset impairment losses of $469 million ($358 million after-tax) in 2022 and $1.3 billion ($1.0 billion after-tax) in 2021, which were recorded in SG&A; and • Property, plant and equipment asset impairment losses of $86 million ($65 million after-tax) in 2022, which were recorded in cost of products sold. (d)    Gross expenses included in certain non-ordinary course legal and regulatory matters were $210 million ($161 million after-tax) in 2022 and $62 million ($62 million after-tax) in 2021 and were recorded in SG&A. The 2022 expenses relate to an accrual in connection with the previously disclosed securities class action lawsuit. The 2021 expenses relate to the settlement of the previously disclosed SEC investigation. See Note 15, Commitments and Contingencies , in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data , for additional information. (e)    Gross expenses/(income) included in losses/(gains) on sale of business were income of $25 million ($17 million after-tax) in 2022 and income of $44 million (expenses of $181 million after-tax) in 2021 and were recorded in other expense/(income). (f)    Gross expenses/(income) included in other losses/(gains) related to acquisitions and divestitures were income of $38 million ($29 million after-tax) in 2022 and were recorded in other expense/(income). (g)    Gross expenses included in nonmonetary currency devaluation were $17 million ($17 million after-tax) in 2022 and were recorded in other expense/(income). (h)    Gross expenses/(income) included in debt prepayment and extinguishment (benefit)/costs were income of $38 million ($35 million after-tax) in 2022 and expenses of $917 million ($728 million after-tax) in 2021 and were recorded in interest expense. (i)    Certain significant discrete income tax items were an expense of $235 million in 2021. The impact in 2021 relates to the revaluation of our deferred tax balances due to an increase in U.K. tax rates. 42