********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Investing in our securities involves risk. Persons investing in our securities should carefully consider the risks described below and the other information contained in this report and other filings that we make from time to time with the SEC, including our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Our business, financial condition or results of operations could also be materially and adversely affected by additional factors that apply to all companies generally, as well as other risks that are not currently known to us or that we currently view to be immaterial. In any such case, the trading price of our securities could decline and you may lose all or part of your original investment. While we attempt to mitigate known risks to the extent we believe to be practicable and reasonable, we can provide no assurance, and we make no representation, that our mitigation efforts will be successful. Risks Related to Our Business Difficult market and economic conditions can adversely affect our business in many ways, including by reducing the value or performance of the investments that we manage or by reducing the ability of our funds to raise or deploy capital, each of which could negatively impact our net income and cash flow and adversely affect our financial prospects and condition. Our business and the businesses of the companies in which we invest are materially affected by financial markets and economic conditions or events throughout the world, such as interest rates, fiscal and monetary stimulus and withdrawal of stimulus, availability of credit, inflation rates, economic uncertainty, changes in laws (including laws relating to taxation), trade barriers, commodity prices, currency exchange rates and controls, national and international political circumstances (including wars, terrorist acts or security operations), and the continued global outbreak of the strain of coronavirus identified as SARS-CoV-2 and its different strains ("COVID-19") in 2021 and 2022. See “—COVID-19 continues to impact the United States and other countries throughout the world, and it has caused and may further cause disruptions to our business and adversely affect our financial results.” See also “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Business Environment” for a discussion of recent developments in market and business conditions that may affect our business. Such financial markets and economic conditions are outside our control and may affect the level and volatility of securities prices and liquidity and as a result, the value of our investments and our financial results. In addition, we may not be able to or may choose not to manage our exposure to these conditions or events. If not otherwise offset, declines in equity markets (including but not limited to multiple contraction), debt markets or commodity markets would likely cause us to write down the valuations of our investments held by us or in our funds. For example, during the global financial crisis in 2008 and 2009, valuations of our private equity funds declined across all geographies, with investments in private equity funds marked down to as low as 67% of original cost and multiples of invested capital reaching as low as 0.5x, 0.6x, 0.7x and 0.8x for the European Fund II, European Fund III, 2006 Fund and Asian Fund, respectively, as of March 31, 2009. Our profitability may also be materially and adversely affected by our fixed costs and the possibility that we would be unable to scale back other costs within a time frame sufficient to match any decreases in net income relating to a downturn in market and economic conditions. Unfavorable market and economic conditions may reduce opportunities for us and our funds to make, exit and realize value from our investments. Challenging market and economic conditions, including those caused by changes in tax laws and other regulatory restrictions, may make it difficult for us to find suitable investments or secure financing for investments on attractive terms. Such conditions may also result in reduced opportunities for us and our funds to exit and realize value from their existing investments and lower-than-expected returns on existing investments. Although the equity markets are not the only means by which we exit investments, in challenging equity markets, we and our funds may experience greater difficulty in realizing value from investments. In addition, when financing is not available or becomes too costly, it is difficult for potential buyers to raise sufficient capital to purchase our and our funds' investments. Consequently, we may earn lower-than-expected returns on investments, which could cause us to realize diminished or no carried interest. We generally raise capital for a successor fund following the substantial and successful deployment of capital from the existing fund. In the event of poor performance by existing funds, our ability to raise new funds is impaired. Our fundraising may also be negatively impacted by any change in or rebalancing of fund investors' asset allocation policies. During periods of unfavorable fundraising conditions, fund investors may negotiate for lower fees, different fee sharing arrangements for transaction or other fees, and other concessions. The outcome of such negotiations could result in our agreement to terms that are materially less favorable to us than for prior funds we have managed. Our current funds, including all our current private equity funds, have performance hurdles, which require us to generate a specified return on investment prior to our right to receive carried interest. This requirement will likely be in all our future funds, and the hurdle rate could increase for our future funds. In addition, successor funds raised by us when such unfavorable circumstances described above exist would also likely result in smaller funds than our comparable predecessor funds. Fund investors may also seek to redeploy capital away from 42 certain of our credit or other non-private equity investment vehicles, which permit redemptions on relatively short notice, in order to meet liquidity needs or invest in other asset classes or with other managers. Any of these developments could materially and adversely affect our future revenues, net income, cash flow, financial condition or ability to retain our employees. See "—Our inability to raise additional or successor funds (or raise successor funds of a comparable size as our predecessor funds) could have a material adverse impact on our business" and "—Our investors in future funds may negotiate to pay us lower management fees, reimburse us for fewer expenses or change the economic terms of our future funds, including with respect to transaction fees, management fees or monitoring fees, to be less favorable to us than those of our existing funds, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues or profitability." During periods of difficult market or economic conditions or slowdowns (which may occur across one or more industries as well as various sectors or geographies), the various companies or assets in which we have investments may experience several issues, including decreased revenues, increased costs, credit rating downgrades, difficulty in obtaining financing and even severe financial losses or insolvency.  For example, certain investments with floating interest rate loans may become unable to meet their debt service obligations if their benchmark interest rates were to rise materially, or if these investments' lenders or debt holders generally are unwilling to extend or refinance their loans or debt securities on similarly attractive terms.  In addition, during periods of difficult market or economic conditions or slowdowns, our and our funds' portfolio companies may have difficulty in expanding their businesses and operations or become unable to pay their expenses or other obligations as they become due, including amounts payable to us. Negative financial results in our and our funds' portfolio companies may result in lower investment returns, which could materially and adversely affect our operating results and cash flow. To the extent the operating performance of such portfolio companies (as well as valuation multiples) deteriorate or do not improve, we or our funds may sell those assets at values that are less than we projected or even at a loss, thereby significantly affecting our respective performance and consequently our operating results and cash flow and resulting in lower or no carried interest being paid to us. Adverse conditions may also increase the risk of default with respect to private equity, real assets, credit and other investments that we manage or the bankruptcy, abandonment or foreclosure of our investments. Even if economic and market conditions do improve broadly, adverse conditions in particular sectors may also cause our performance to suffer. Finally, low interest rates related to monetary stimulus, economic stagnation or deflation may negatively impact expected returns on all types of investments as the demand for relatively higher return assets increases and the supply decreases. In addition, our capital markets business generates fees through a variety of activities in connection with the issuance and placement of equity and debt securities, loans and credit facilities, with the size of fees generally correlated to overall transaction sizes. As a result, adverse conditions in financial markets as described above, as well as lower level of transaction activities involving our funds' investments, which can be unpredictable and outside our control, may negatively impact both the frequency and size of fees generated by our capital markets business. Our insurance business is materially affected by market and economic conditions as well.  Actual or perceived stressed conditions, volatility and disruptions in financial asset classes or various capital markets can have an adverse effect on Global Atlantic, both because such conditions may decrease the returns on, and value of, its investment portfolio and because Global Atlantic's benefit and claim liabilities are sensitive to changing market factors, in particular Global Atlantic's fixed-indexed annuity and indexed universal life products and products with guaranteed minimum withdrawal or surrender or secondary guarantee features. In times of economic hardship, Global Atlantic's policyholders may choose to defer paying insurance premiums, stop paying insurance premiums altogether or surrender their policies. In addition, actual or perceived difficult conditions in the capital markets may discourage individuals from making investment decisions and purchasing Global Atlantic's products. Global Atlantic has in the past experienced an elevated incidence of life insurance claims as a result of increased unemployment, which impacts policyholder health and life expectancy and has adversely impacted utilization of benefits relative to Global Atlantic’s assumptions. The estimated cost of providing guaranteed minimum withdrawal and death benefits of certain insurance products requires various assumptions about the overall performance of equity markets over the life of the product. Therefore, significant declines in equity markets could cause Global Atlantic to incur significant operating losses and capital increases due to, among other reasons, the impact of such decline on guarantees related to Global Atlantic's annuity products, including from increases in liabilities, increased capital requirements and/or collateral requirements associated with certain of Global Atlantic's agreements. For a discussion of interest rate risks on our insurance business, see "—Risks Related to Global Atlantic–Interest rate fluctuations and sustained periods of low or high interest rates could adversely affect Global Atlantic’s business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations, cash flows and prospects." 43 COVID-19 continues to impact the United States and other countries throughout the world, and it has caused and may further cause disruptions to our business and adversely affect our financial results. COVID-19 has caused, and continues to cause, severe disruptions to the U.S. and global economics. In March 2020, the World Health Organization declared COVID-19 to be a pandemic and the United States declared a national emergency due to the outbreak. In connection with these declarations, various governments around the world have instituted measures to slow the transmissions of COVID-19, which substantially restrict individual and business activities. These measures have included, for example, closures of non-essential businesses, limitations of crowd size, stay-at-home orders, quarantines, heightened border controls, limitations on travel, and vaccination and testing mandates. Governments in the United States and around the world have responded with fiscal and monetary stimuli that aim to provide emergency assistance to individuals and businesses negatively impacted by COVID-19, which may be withdrawn or allowed to expire. The outbreak of COVID-19 and the actions taken in response have had far reaching impact on the U.S. and global economies, which has contributed to significant volatility in the financial markets, resulting in increased volatility in equity prices (including our common stock), lower interest rates, supply chain disruptions, and an increase in inflationary pressures. The number of COVID-19 cases rebounded in many countries around the world throughout the year, including the United States, especially after more infectious strains of the virus have spread globally. Although a number of vaccines for COVID-19 have been developed, the effectiveness of widespread vaccination is uncertain, and these vaccines have been, and may in the future be, less effective against any new mutated strains of the virus. We are monitoring developments relating to the global spread of COVID-19 and continuing to assess the potential for adverse impact on our business, including the investment funds we manage and the portfolio companies owned by us and our funds. In addition, we have implemented various initiatives intended to reduce the impact of COVID-19, such as mandatory vaccination and/or testing and ability to work remotely from home, while also seeking to maintain business continuity. The scale and scope of the COVID-19 pandemic may heighten the potential adverse effects on our business, financial performance and operating results, which may be material and affect us in ways that we cannot foresee at this time. Many of the adverse ways in which COVID-19 may impact us have already materialized and adversely affected (or may in the future materialize and adversely affect) our stock price, our portfolio valuations, and the operations of our businesses and the businesses of our portfolio companies, as well as the businesses of entities of which we or our funds are creditors, and our and their other counterparties, including suppliers and customers. These risks may, in the future, become even more significant than is currently the case or than is currently anticipated. Although it is impossible to predict with certainty the potential full magnitude of the business and economic ramifications, COVID-19 has impacted, and may further impact, our business in various ways, including but not limited to: • Difficult market and economic conditions may adversely impact the valuations of our and our funds' investments, particularly if the value of an investment is determined in whole or in part by reference to public equity markets.  Valuations of our and our funds' investments are generally correlated to the performance of the relevant equity and debt markets, which have been affected by governmental actions, including fiscal and monetary stimulus and withdrawal of stimulus. Although valuations across our investments generally improved throughout 2021, driven by a strong rebound in equity and fixed income markets, financial markets experienced significant volatility in early 2022. The withdrawal of fiscal or monetary stimulus, or the failure to implement announced programs or withdrawals of stimulus as anticipated, could have material impacts to market and economic conditions, which may negatively affect the value of our investment portfolio in the future and adversely impact our financial results; • COVID-19 significantly increases the challenges associated with business planning, strategy, execution, portfolio management, fundraising, and other aspects of our business operations, the operation of our portfolio companies' businesses, and the operation of entities with whom we or our funds have loaned money or otherwise do business, including through supply or customer relationships. None of us, our portfolio companies or our and their respective counterparties, vendors, or advisors have previously faced a situation that we view as comparable to the current COVID-19 crisis, which, among other factors, involves a major simultaneous supply and demand shock to global, regional and national economies and significant outsized effects on particular business sectors, including for example, severe supply chain disruptions.  The future trajectory of the COVID-19 crisis is subject to a complex interplay of epidemiological, technological, social, psychological, economic and political factors that are generally beyond our ability to forecast or control. In this environment, historical comparisons may be of little or no value, while the risk and uncertainty associated with a large number of business decisions are materially increased; • Future limitations on travel and social distancing requirements implemented in response to COVID-19 may challenge our ability to market new or successor funds or new insurance policies as anticipated prior to COVID-19, potentially resulting in reduced or delayed revenues. In addition, fund investors may become restricted by their asset allocation policies to invest in new or successor funds that we provide, because these policies often restrict the amount that they 44 are permitted to invest in alternative assets like the strategies of our investment funds when there is a decline in public equity markets. Further, the COVID-19 crisis may cause fund investors or policyholders to change their investment strategies in manners that we cannot now foresee, and that may additionally and negatively affect our ability to raise funds or write new insurance policies from traditional or other sources; • While the market dislocation caused by COVID-19 would expect to present attractive investment opportunities, due to increased volatility in the financial markets, we may not be able to complete those investments; • Depending on the future impacts of COVID-19, we and our funds may have more limited opportunities to successfully exit existing investments, due to, among other reasons, lower valuations, decreased revenues and earnings, lack of potential buyers with financial resources to pursue an acquisition, or limited or no ability to conduct initial public offerings in equity capital markets, resulting in a reduced ability to realize value from such investments; • Our portfolio companies are facing or may face in the future increased credit and liquidity risk due to volatility in financial markets, reduced revenue streams, and limited or higher cost of access to preferred sources of funding, which may result in potential impairment of our or our funds’ equity investments. Changes in the debt financing markets are impacting, or, if the volatility in the financial market continues, may in the future impact, the ability of our portfolio companies to meet their respective financial obligations. We and our funds may experience similar difficulties, and certain funds have been subject to margin calls when the value of securities that collateralize their margin loan decreased substantially; • Borrowers of loans, notes and other credit instruments in our credit funds’ portfolio may become unable to meet their principal or interest payment obligations or satisfy financial covenants, and tenants leasing real estate properties owned by our funds may become more likely not to be able to pay rents in a timely manner or at all, resulting in a decrease in value of our funds' credit and real estate investments and lower than expected returns. In addition, for variable interest instruments, lower reference rates resulting from government stimulus programs in response to COVID-19 has and may continue to result in lower interest income for our credit funds; • While the impact of COVID-19 on our portfolio companies has varied depending on the location and industry in which they operate, many of our portfolio companies operate in industries that have been, and continue to be, materially affected by COVID-19, including but not limited to healthcare, travel, entertainment, hospitality, housing, energy and retail industries. Many of these companies have faced operational and financial hardships resulting from the spread of COVID-19 and related governmental measures, such as the closure of stores, limitations on business operations, restrictions on travel, quarantines or stay-at-home orders. If the disruptions caused by COVID-19 worsen or if certain onerous restrictions are reinstated, the businesses of these portfolio companies could suffer materially or become insolvent, which would decrease the value of our funds’ investments; • COVID-19 may generate workplace, consumer, insurance, contract and other forms of litigation that exposes us, our portfolio companies, suppliers, customers, debtors and other counterparties to risks and claims of a magnitude and nature that we cannot now anticipate; • COVID-19 has impacted and may continue to impact mortality, morbidity and insurance policyholder behavior in unexpected ways. An increase in mortality and, in certain cases, morbidity rates could have a material adverse impact on Global Atlantic's liquidity, financial condition and operating results; • As a result of the pandemic, Global Atlantic's customers may seek sources of liquidity and withdraw at rates greater than previously expected. If customer lapse and surrender rates significantly exceed Global Atlantic's expectations, or customers stop lapsing or withdrawing all together and the cost of providing benefits exceed Global Atlantic's expectations, Global Atlantic's business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could suffer materially; • Extended periods of remote working by our employees could strain our technology resources and introduce operational risks, including heightened cybersecurity risk. Remote working environments may be less secure and more susceptible to hacking attacks, including ransomware, phishing and social engineering attempts that seek to exploit the COVID-19 pandemic; and • COVID-19 presents a significant threat to our employees' well-being and morale. While we have a business continuity plan to protect the health of our employees and have contingency plans in place for key employees or executive officers who may become sick or otherwise unable to perform their duties for an extended period of time, such plans cannot anticipate all scenarios, and we may experience potential loss of productivity or a delay in the roll out of certain 45 strategic plans. We also may also experience more attrition by employees who unexpectedly resign, and we may have difficulty replacing them or hiring the new employees needed for our current business or the future growth of our business. Given the ongoing nature of the outbreak, at this time we cannot reasonably predict the magnitude of the ultimate impact that COVID-19 will have on our business, financial performance and operating results. The effects caused by COVID-19 may extend beyond the timeframe of the pandemic itself. We believe COVID-19’s adverse impact on our business, financial performance and operating results will be significantly driven by a number of factors that we are unable to predict or control, including, for example: new strains of COVID-19 that cause the severity and duration of the pandemic to worsen or extend; the pandemic’s impact on the U.S. and global economies; the effectiveness of governmental responses to the pandemic, including the extension, amendment or withdrawal of any programs or initiatives established by governments; the timing and speed of economic recovery, including adverse economic pressures like rising inflation and less accommodative monetary stimulus; and the negative impact on our fund investors, vendors and other business partners that may indirectly adversely affect us. The impact of COVID-19 may also exacerbate the other risks discussed in this report. Changes in the debt financing markets may negatively impact the ability of our investment funds, their portfolio companies and strategies pursued with our balance sheet assets to obtain attractive financing for their investments or to refinance existing debt and may increase the cost of such financing or refinancing if it is obtained, which could lead to lower-yielding investments and potentially decrease our net income. In the event that our funds are unable to obtain committed debt financing for potential acquisitions or can only obtain debt at an increased interest rate or on unfavorable terms, our funds may have difficulty completing otherwise profitable acquisitions or may generate profits that are lower than would otherwise be the case, either of which could lead to a decrease in the investment income earned by us. Any failure by lenders to provide previously committed financing can also expose us to potential claims by sellers of businesses that we may have contracted to purchase. Similarly, certain of the strategies pursued with our balance sheet assets rely on the use of leverage, including the issuance of CLOs, and other secured and unsecured borrowings. Our ability to generate returns on these assets would be reduced to the extent that changes in market conditions, including one or more increases by the U.S. Federal Reserve of its benchmark interest rate or market driven changes to medium- or long-term interest rates, cause the cost of our financing to increase relative to the income that can be derived from the assets acquired and financed. Global Atlantic relies on access to lending and debt markets to provide capital and liquidity for its business. Changes in debt financing markets may impact Global Atlantic's access to capital and liquidity, in particular during times where Global Atlantic requires increased access to such financing. For example, calculations of required insurance capital may move with market movements and result in greater capital needs during economic downturns. Global Atlantic may also need additional liquidity to pay insurance liabilities in excess of its assumptions due to market impacts on policyholder behavior. Similarly, our portfolio companies regularly utilize the corporate debt markets in order to obtain financing for their operations. To the extent that credit markets render such financing difficult to obtain or more expensive, this may negatively impact the operating performance of those portfolio companies and our insurance subsidiaries and, therefore, the investment returns on our funds and our insurance subsidiaries. In addition, to the extent that conditions in the credit markets impair the ability of our portfolio companies to refinance or extend maturities on their outstanding debt, either on favorable terms or at all, the operating performance of those portfolio companies may be negatively impacted, which could impair the value of our investment in those portfolio companies and lead to a decrease in the investment income earned by us. In some cases, the inability of our portfolio companies to refinance or extend maturities may result in the inability of those companies to repay debt at maturity or pay interests when due, and may cause the companies to sell assets, undergo a recapitalization or seek bankruptcy protection, any of which would also likely impair the value of our investment and lead to a decrease in investment income earned by us. Transition away from LIBOR as a benchmark reference for interest rates may affect the cost of capital and requires amending or restructuring existing debt instruments and related hedging arrangements for us, our investment funds and our portfolio companies, and may impact the value of floating rate securities or loans based on LIBOR that we or our investment funds have held, all of which may result in additional costs or adversely affect our or our funds’ liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. A substantial portion of credit assets held by our investment funds and our insurance subsidiaries and long-term indebtedness incurred by us, our investment funds, our insurance subsidiaries and our portfolio companies bears interest at variable interest rates, primarily based on LIBOR. In July 2017, the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority (the authority that regulates ICE Benchmark Administration (IBA), the administrator of LIBOR) announced that it intends to stop compelling banks to submit rates for the calculation of LIBOR after 2021. The Alternative Reference Rates Committee, a steering committee of large U.S. financial institutions convened by the Federal Reserve Board and the New York Fed, identified the Secured Overnight Financing Rate (“SOFR”) as its recommended alternative reference rate, which measures the cost of borrowing cash overnight collateralized by U.S. Treasury securities. In January 2021, International Swaps and Derivatives Association also amended the definitions used in derivative contracts to incorporate SOFR as the successor rate to LIBOR. On 46 December 31, 2021, the following LIBOR currencies across all tenors ceased to be published: Sterling (GBP) LIBOR, Euro LIBOR, Japanese Yen (JPY) LIBOR and Swiss Franc (CHF) LIBOR. Additionally, one week and two month U.S. Dollar (USD) LIBOR tenors ceased to be published. It is expected that the remaining tenors of USD LIBOR will cease to be published and or no longer be representative on June 30, 2023 in the United States, and that SOFR will be the predominant replacement for LIBOR.  At this time, it appears that SOFR will attain broad market acceptance as a replacement for LIBOR; however, there may be segments of the market that may opt to utilize other alternative reference rate as various industry organizations are evaluating alternatives to SOFR. As such, it is not possible to predict all potential effects of these changes on U.S. and global credit markets. As of January, 1, 2022, global regulators have stated there can be no new LIBOR-linked origination and or issuance in any LIBOR currency and as such, remaining USD LIBOR tenors may only be referenced on a legacy basis for facilities that funded on or before December 31, 2021. Agreements governing our corporate revolving credit facility and our capital markets revolving credit facilities either mature before June 30, 2023 or contain “fallback” provisions providing for alternative rate calculations switches for all Non-USD LIBOR currencies as well as USD LIBOR. We, our investment funds and our portfolio companies have other LIBOR-based debt instruments and related hedging arrangements that  may require amending or restructuring, which may be difficult, costly and time consuming. In addition, our credit funds extend loans based on LIBOR and invest in floating rate loans and investment securities whose interest rates are indexed to LIBOR. Replacing LIBOR with an alternative reference rate in the underlying agreements may require repricing of these loans and securities, which may have an adverse impact on our funds and us. Transition from LIBOR to SOFR or to another reference rate may result in an increase or a decrease of the overall borrowing cost for us, our investment funds, our insurance subsidiaries and our portfolio companies. Even if the overall borrowing cost decreases, any savings that we realize from such decrease could be offset partially or entirely by lower overall interest income we receive from our credit assets. In addition, we and certain consolidated funds hold credit investments that generate interest income based on variable interest rates, and if we receive lower interest income, such funds may be adversely affected. If the transition from LIBOR results in an overall increase to the borrowing cost, higher interest expense could negatively affect the financial results and valuations of our portfolio companies. Transition to new reference rates also requires an upgrade to the software and systems we and our third-party vendors use to properly record and process loans and other instruments based on the new rates. Such upgrade may not become fully available in time or its implementation could be delayed because of the dynamic nature of the transition. Any failure to timely implement the necessary software or systems upgrade could adversely affect our business operations. Significant uncertainty still exists as to, for example, the successor reference rate that will be predominantly adopted in the market, emergence of credit sensitive rates, interpretation and or re-negotiation of agreements without clear LIBOR transition provisions, and the expected timing for the anticipated Federal legislative solution named H.R.4616 Adjustable Interest Rate (LIBOR) Act of 2021 to address tough legacy contracts to be signed into law. Such uncertainty could give rise to widespread disputes, including litigation, which can adversely affect us, and result in a sudden or prolonged increase or decrease in the value of LIBOR-based loans and securities, including those of other issuers we or our funds currently own or may in the future own. These changes in value may impact the availability and cost of hedging instruments and borrowings, potentially resulting in an increase to our and our funds’ interest expense and cost of capital.  Any increased costs, lower interest income or reduced profits as a result of the foregoing may adversely affect our liquidity, results of operations and financial condition. We have significant liquidity requirements, and adverse market and economic conditions may adversely affect our sources of liquidity, which could adversely affect our business operations in the future. We expect that our primary liquidity needs, including those of Global Atlantic, will consist of cash required to: • continue to grow our businesses, including seeding new strategies, funding our capital commitments made to existing and future funds, co-investments and any net capital requirements of our capital markets companies and otherwise supporting investment vehicles that we sponsor; • warehouse investments in portfolio companies or other investments for the benefit of one or more of our funds, accounts or CLOs or other investment vehicles pending the contribution of committed capital by the investors in such vehicles, and advancing capital to them for operational or other needs; • service debt obligations including the payment of obligations at maturity, on interest payment dates or upon redemption, as well as any contingent liabilities, including from litigation, that may give rise to future cash payments; • fund cash operating expenses and contingencies, including for litigation matters; • pay policyholders and amounts in our insurance business related to investment, reinvestment, reinsurance or funding agreement activity; 47 ◦ pay amounts that may become due under our tax receivable agreement with KKR Holdings; • pay cash dividends in accordance with our dividend policy for our common stock or the terms of our preferred stock; • underwrite commitments, advance loan proceeds and fund syndication commitments within our capital markets business; • acquire other assets for our Principal Activities business line, including other businesses, investments and assets, some of which may be required to satisfy regulatory requirements for our capital markets business or risk retention requirements for CLOs (to the extent they may apply); • address capital needs of regulated and other subsidiaries; and • repurchase shares of our common stock pursuant to the share repurchase program or repurchase or redeem other securities issued by us. These liquidity requirements are significant and, in some cases, involve capital that will remain invested for extended periods of time. As of December 31, 2021, we have approximately $11.9 billion of remaining unfunded capital commitments to our investment funds and vehicles and approximately $1.2 billion of commitments to capital markets transactions.  Our commitments to our funds and other businesses will require significant cash outlays over time, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to generate sufficient cash flows from realizations of investments to fund them. We have also used our balance sheet to provide credit support to our general partner's obligations to our funds, to provide certain guarantees in commercial real estate financing transactions, to support certain transactions by our funds and to facilitate capital markets transactions. In addition, as of December 31, 2021, we had $38.6 billion of indebtedness outstanding under our credit facilities and debt securities on a GAAP basis and $6.8 billion of indebtedness outstanding under our credit facilities and debt securities on a non-GAAP basis (excluding Global Atlantic, which is reported net of assets and liabilities on a non-GAAP basis), and $10.0 billion of cash and cash equivalents on a GAAP basis and $4.9 billion of cash and short-term investments on a non-GAAP basis (excluding Global Atlantic, which is reported net of assets and liabilities on a non-GAAP basis). The non-GAAP based measures exclude the assets and liabilities of our investment funds, CLOs, and other consolidated entities that are not subsidiaries of KKR & Co. Inc., but include debt obligations of KKR Financial Holdings LLC (“KFN”), which as of December 31, 2021, consisted of $948.5 million. The debt obligations of KFN do not provide for recourse to KKR beyond the assets of KFN. Our $1.0 billion corporate revolving credit facility is scheduled to mature on August 4, 2026. Global Atlantic also has outstanding indebtedness of $1.9 billion as of December 31, 2021. Depending on market conditions, we may not be able to refinance or renew all or part of these senior notes or our corporate revolving credit facility, or find alternate sources of financing (including issuing equity), on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Furthermore, the incurrence of additional debt by us or our subsidiaries in the future could result in downgrades of our existing corporate credit ratings, which could limit the availability of future financing and increase our costs of borrowing. In addition, the underwriting commitments for our capital markets business may require significant cash obligations, and these commitments may also put pressure on our liquidity. The holding company for our capital markets business has entered into a credit agreement that provides for revolving borrowings of up to $750 million, which can only be used in connection with the general corporate and working capital needs of our capital markets business, including placing and underwriting securities offerings, and a 364-day revolving credit agreement that provides for revolving borrowings of up to $750 million, which can only be used to facilitate the settlement of debt transaction syndicated by our capital markets business. To the extent we commit to buy and sell an issue of securities in firm commitment underwritings or otherwise, we may be required to borrow under these revolving credit facilities or from other sources of liquidity to fund such obligations, which, depending on the size and timing of the obligations, may limit our ability to enter into other underwriting arrangements or similar activities, service existing debt obligations or otherwise grow our business. Further, these facilities are scheduled to mature on March 20, 2025 and April 8, 2022, respectively, and depending on the market conditions, we may not be able to refinance or renew them on commercially reasonable terms or at all. Regulatory net capital requirements may also limit the ability of our broker-dealer subsidiaries to participate in underwriting or other transactions or to allocate our capital more efficiently across our businesses. In the event that our liquidity requirements were to exceed available liquid assets for the reasons specified above or for any other reasons, we could be forced to sell assets or seek to raise debt or equity capital on unfavorable terms. For further discussion of our liquidity needs, see "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity." 48 The "clawback" provisions in our governing agreements may give rise to a contingent obligation that may require us to return or contribute amounts to our funds and fund investors. Carry distributions may give rise to clawback obligations. The partnership documents governing our carry-paying funds, including funds relating to private equity, credit and real assets investments, generally include a "clawback" provision that, if triggered, may give rise to a contingent obligation requiring the general partner to return amounts to the fund for distribution to the fund investors at the end of the life of the fund. Under a clawback obligation, upon the liquidation of a fund, the general partner is required to return, typically on an after-tax basis, previously distributed carry to the extent that, due to the diminished performance of later investments, the aggregate amount of carry distributions received by the general partner during the term of the fund exceed the amount to which the general partner was ultimately entitled, including the effects of any performance thresholds. We would continue to be subject to the clawback obligation even if carry has been distributed to current or former employees or other persons through our carry pool, and we would be required to seek other sources of liquidity to fund such an obligation if such carry is not returned to us by them. Not all carry may be recoverable from current or former employees and other persons once it has been distributed by us. As of December 31, 2021, $76.0 million of carried interest was subject to this clawback obligation, assuming that all applicable carry-paying funds were liquidated at their December 31, 2021 fair values. Had the investments in such carry-paying funds been liquidated at zero value, the clawback obligation would have been approximately $2.5 billion. See – “Strategic investor partnerships have longer investment periods and invest in multiple strategies, which may increase the possibility of a "netting hole," which will result in less carried interest for us, as well as clawback liabilities.” Strategic investor partnerships have longer investment periods and invest in multiple strategies, which may increase the possibility of a "netting hole," which will result in less carried interest for us, as well as clawback liabilities. We have entered into strategic investor partnerships with certain investors, generally through separately managed accounts, which have longer investment periods, often of 20 years or more, and provide for investments across different investment strategies. Compared to our traditional private equity fund structure, these partnerships may offer reduced fees for fund investors and may require netting across various funds in which they invest. For example, these strategic partnerships may net the returns across the various funds in which they invest, in effect potentially creating a "netting hole" across funds, which must be "filled" before any realized gains can be distributed to the general partner as carried interest. The longer investment period and cross-fund netting feature of the strategic investor partnerships increase the possibility of netting holes compared to our traditional private equity fund structure, which, if present, will reduce the carried interest we otherwise would earn. Similarly, the longer duration of these partnerships can increase the risk of clawback, because over a longer investment period, a period of reduced performance following periods of performance adequate to realize carried interest is more likely to occur. See "—The 'clawback' provisions in our governing agreements may give rise to a contingent obligation that may require us to return or contribute amounts to our funds and fund investors." AUM referred to as perpetual capital is subject to material reduction, including through withdrawal, redemption or dividends, and termination. We refer to a significant portion of our AUM from time to time as perpetual capital, because it has an indefinite term with no predetermined requirement to return invested capital to investors upon the realization of investments. This AUM includes the capital of our registered funds, certain unregistered funds, listed companies, and insurance companies, and it excludes our traditional private equity funds, similarly structured investment funds, and hedge fund partnerships.  In addition to fluctuations based on the valuations of the underlying investments of the AUM, this capital is subject, however, to withdrawals, redemptions and periodic payments such as dividends.  Perpetual capital may also be reduced through elections by investors to redeem their fund investment.  In addition, we expect that the capital arising from KKR’s investment management agreements with Global Atlantic would, in general, be reduced if outflows to pay policyholder obligations under Global Atlantic's insurance policies and reinsurance agreements exceed inflow from writing new insurance policies or entering into new reinsurance transactions.  Moreover, perpetual capital may be removed from our AUM under certain circumstances, because the underlying investment management agreement may be terminated by a client for specific reasons like poor investment performance, and perpetual capital may also be terminated by a client’s failure to renew our investment management agreement.  Therefore, investors should not view this component of our AUM as being permanent without exception, because it can be subject to material reductions and even termination. Many parts of our earnings and cash flow are highly variable due to the nature of our business and we generally do not intend to provide earnings guidance, each of which may cause the value of interests in our business to be volatile. Many parts of our earnings are highly variable from quarter to quarter due to the volatility of investment returns of most of our funds, other investment vehicles and our balance sheet assets and the transaction and other fees earned from our businesses. We recognize earnings on investments in our funds based on our allocable share of realized and unrealized gains (or losses) reported by such funds and for certain of our recent funds, when a performance hurdle is achieved. During times of market volatility the fair value of our funds and our balance sheet assets are more variable, and as publicly traded equity securities 49 currently represent a significant proportion of the assets of many of our funds and balance sheet assets, volatility in the equity markets may have a significant impact on our reported results. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies—Fair Value Measurements" for a discussion of the impact of equity markets on the value of private equity investments. A decline in realized or unrealized gains, a failure to achieve a performance hurdle or an increase in realized or unrealized losses, would adversely affect our net income. Fee income, which we recognize when contractually earned, can vary due to fluctuations in AUM, the number of investment transactions made by our funds, the number of portfolio companies we manage, the fee provisions contained in our funds and other investment products and transactions by our capital markets business. In any particular quarter, fee income may vary significantly due to the variances in size and frequency of monitoring fees (including termination payments), transaction fees or fees received by our capital markets business. Our total management, monitoring and transaction fees (net of fee credits) for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019 were $2,524.5 million, $1,744.4 million and $1,504.6 million, respectively, on a GAAP basis, and $3,075.7 million, $2,074.0 million and $1,812.8 million, respectively, on a non-GAAP basis. We may create new funds or investment products or vary the terms of our funds or investment products (for example our funds now include performance hurdles), which may alter the composition or mix of our income from time to time. In particular, in our private equity and other funds raised since 2014, we credit all monitoring and transaction fees generated by the fund's investments against fund management fees, which results in a decrease of our monitoring and transaction fee income. We may also experience fluctuations in our results from quarter to quarter, including our revenue and net income, due to a number of other factors, including changes in the values of our funds' investments, changes in the amount of distributions or interest earned in respect of investments, changes in our operating expenses, the degree to which we encounter competition and general market and economic conditions. In addition, our earnings and cash flows are dependent in part on the performance of KKR Financial Holdings LLC ("KFN"), a specialty finance company that we acquired in 2014, and Global Atlantic, a retirement and life insurance company that we acquired in 2021, and are subject to the risks to these businesses as described elsewhere in the report. Although KFN and Global Atlantic are subsidiaries of KKR, KFN and Global Atlantic each has its own indebtedness outstanding. The terms of their respective indebtedness impose limitations on these companies' current and future operations and may restrict its ability to make distributions to KKR. In addition, Global Atlantic's insurance subsidiaries are also subject to regulatory restrictions that may restrict their ability to make distributions to KKR. For the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, our net income attributable to KKR & Co. Inc. Common Stockholders was $4,560.8 million, $1,946.0 million and $1,971.7 million, respectively, and our after-tax distributable earnings was $3,915.6 million, $1,768.8 million and $1,613.1 million, respectively. Such fluctuations may lead to variability in the value of interests in our business and cause our results for a particular period not to be indicative of our performance in future periods. It may be difficult for us to achieve steady growth in net income and cash flow on a quarterly basis, which could in turn lead to large adverse movements in the value of interests in our business. The timing and receipt of carried interest from our investment funds are unpredictable and will contribute to the volatility of our cash flows. For example, with respect to our private equity funds, carried interest is distributed to the general partner of a private equity fund with a clawback provision only after all of the following are met: (i) a realization event has occurred (e.g., sale of a portfolio company, dividend, etc.); (ii) the fund has achieved positive overall investment returns since its inception, in excess of performance hurdles where applicable, and is accruing carried interest; and (iii) with respect to investments with a fair value below cost (which we refer to as a netting hole), cost has been returned to fund investors in an amount sufficient to reduce remaining cost to the investments' fair value. Carried interest payments from investments depend on our funds' performance and opportunities for realizing gains, which may be limited. It takes a substantial period of time to identify attractive investment opportunities, to raise all the funds needed to make an investment and then to realize the cash value (or other proceeds) of an investment through a sale, public offering or other exit. To the extent an investment is not profitable, no carried interest will be received from our funds with respect to that investment and, to the extent such investment remains unprofitable, we will only be entitled to a management fee on that investment. Furthermore, certain vehicles and separately managed accounts may not provide for the payment of any carried interest at all. Even if an investment proves to be profitable, it may be several years before any profits can be realized in cash. We cannot predict when, or if, any realization of investments will occur. In addition, if finance providers, such as commercial and investment banks, make it difficult for potential purchasers to secure financing to purchase companies in our investment funds' portfolio, it may decrease potential realization events and the potential to earn carried interest. A downturn in the equity markets would also make it more difficult to exit investments by selling equity securities. If we were to have a realization event in a particular quarter, the event may have a significant impact on our cash flows during the quarter that may not be replicated in subsequent quarters. A decline in realized or unrealized gains, or an increase in realized or unrealized losses, would adversely affect our investment income, which could further increase the volatility of our quarterly results. The timing and receipt of carried interest also vary with the life cycle of certain of our funds. Our carry-paying funds that have completed their investment periods and are able to realize mature investments, sometimes referred to as being in a "harvesting period," are more likely to make larger distributions than our carry-paying funds that are in their fund raising or 50 investment periods that precede the harvesting period. During times when a significant portion of our AUM is attributable to carry-paying funds that are not in their harvesting periods, we may receive substantially lower carried interest distributions. In addition, we have formed strategic partnerships with third-party hedge fund managers in which KKR owns a minority stake (which we refer to as "hedge fund partnerships"). These third-party hedge fund managers offer a variety of investment strategies, including hedge fund-of-funds, equity hedge funds and credit hedge funds. As a result, we are indirectly exposed to the volatility and fluctuations in financial results of these hedge fund managers and could become exposed to lawsuits or other liabilities arising from their business and operations. For example, certain funds managed by the hedge fund managers have "high-water mark" provisions whereby if the funds have experienced losses in prior periods, the fund managers will not be able to earn incentive fees with respect to a fund investor's account until the net asset value of the fund investor's account exceeds the highest period end value on which incentive fees were previously paid. The incentive fees the hedge fund managers earn are therefore dependent on the net asset value of these funds, which could add to volatility in our quarterly results and cash flow. A decline in the pace or size of investment by our funds would result in our receiving less revenue from fees. The transaction and management or monitoring fees that we earn are driven in part by the pace at which our funds make investments and the size of those investments. Any decline in that pace or the size of investments would reduce our revenue from transaction and management or monitoring fees. Likewise, during an attractive selling environment, our funds may capitalize on increased opportunities to exit investments. Any increase in the pace at which our funds exit investments, if not offset by new commitments and investments, would reduce future management fees. Additionally, in certain of our funds that derive management fees only on the basis of invested capital, the pace at which we make investments, the length of time we hold such investment and the timing of disposition will directly impact our revenues. Many factors could cause such a decline in the pace of investment or the transaction and management or monitoring fees we receive, including: • the inability of our investment professionals to identify attractive investment opportunities; • competition for such opportunities among other potential acquirers; • unfavorable market and economic conditions; • decreased availability of capital or financing on attractive terms; • our failure to consummate identified investment opportunities because of business, regulatory or legal complexities and adverse developments in the U.S. or global economy or financial markets; • terms we may agree with or provide to our fund investors or investors in separately managed accounts with respect to fees such as increasing the percentage of transaction or other fees we may share with our fund investors; and • new regulations, guidance or other actions provided or taken by regulatory authorities. Our inability to raise additional or successor funds (or raise successor funds of a comparable size as our predecessor funds) could have a material adverse impact on our business. Our current private equity funds and certain other funds and investment vehicles have a finite life and a finite amount of commitments from fund investors. Once a fund nears the end of its investment period, our success depends on our ability to raise additional or successor funds in order to keep making investments and, over the long term, earning management fees (although our funds and investment vehicles continue to earn management fees after the expiration of their investment periods, they are generally at a reduced rate). Even if we are successful in raising successor funds, to the extent we are unable to raise successor funds of a comparable size to our predecessor funds or the extent that we are delayed in raising such successor funds, our revenues may decrease as the investment period of our predecessor funds expire and associated fees decrease. For example, European Fund IV was smaller than its predecessor fund and North America Fund XI was smaller than its predecessor fund. The performance of our funds also impacts our ability to raise capital, and deterioration in the performance of our funds would result in challenges to future fundraising. The evolving preferences of our fund investors may necessitate that alternatives to the traditional investment fund structure, such as separately managed accounts, smaller funds and co-investment vehicles, become a larger part of our business going forward. This could increase our cost of raising capital at the scale we have historically achieved. Furthermore, in order to raise capital for new strategies and products without drawing capital away from our existing products, we will need to seek new sources of capital such as individual investors. 51 Our ability to raise new funds could also be hampered if the general appeal of alternative asset investments were to decline. An investment in a limited partner interest in an alternative asset fund like private equity is less liquid than an exchange traded instrument and the returns on such investment may be more volatile than an investment in securities for which there is a more active and transparent market. Alternative asset investments could fall into disfavor as a result of concerns about liquidity and short-term or long-term performance. Institutional investors that have suffered from decreasing returns, liquidity pressure, increased volatility or difficulty maintaining target asset allocations may materially decrease or temporarily suspend making new investments in our investment funds. Such concerns could be exhibited, in particular, by public pension funds, which have historically been among the largest investors in alternative assets. Many public pension funds are significantly underfunded and their funding problems have been, and may in the future be, exacerbated by economic downturn. Concerns with liquidity could cause such public pension funds to reevaluate the appropriateness of alternative assets, and other institutional investors may reduce their overall portfolio allocations to alternative assets. This could result in a smaller overall pool of available capital in our industry. There is no assurance that the amount of commitments investors are making to alternative asset funds will continue at recent levels or that our ability to raise capital from investors will not be hampered. In addition, the asset allocation rules or regulations or investment policies to which such third-party investors are subject could inhibit or restrict the ability of third-party investors to make investments in our investment funds. Coupled with a lack of distributions from their existing investment portfolios, many of these investors may have been left with disproportionately outsized remaining commitments to, and invested capital in, a number of investment funds, which may significantly limit their ability to make new commitments to third-party managed investment funds such as those advised by us. Fund investors may also seek to redeploy capital away from certain of our credit or other non-private equity investment vehicles, which permit redemptions on relatively short notice in order to meet liquidity needs or invest in other asset classes. We believe that our ability to avoid excessive redemption levels primarily depends on our funds' continued satisfactory performance, although redemptions may also be driven by other factors important to our fund investors, including their need for liquidity and compliance with investment mandates, even if our performance is superior. Investors' liquidity needs tend to be more pronounced during periods of market volatility. Any such redemptions would decrease our AUM and revenues. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act, under what has become known as the “Volcker Rule,” broadly prohibits depository institution holding companies (including foreign banks with U.S. branches, agencies or commercial lending companies and certain insurance companies), insured depository institutions and their subsidiaries and controlled affiliates (“banking entities”) from investing in “covered funds,” including third-party alternative asset funds like ours. As a result, banking entities, subject to certain limited exemptions, had to conform their existing covered fund investments and relationships to the Volcker Rule, and are limited in their ability to undertake new contractual commitments to our investment funds. In addition to federal law, changes in state and local law may limit investment activities of state pension plans and insurance companies. The number of funds raising capital varies from year to year, and in years where relatively few of our funds are raising capital, the growth of our AUM, FPAUM and associated fees may be significantly lower. There is no assurance that fundraises for new strategies or successor funds will experience similar success as our existing or predecessor funds in the future. Our investors in future funds may negotiate to pay us lower management fees, reimburse us for fewer expenses or change the economic terms of our future funds, including with respect to transaction fees, management fees or monitoring fees, to be less favorable to us than those of our existing funds, which could materially and adversely affect our revenues or profitability. In connection with raising new funds or securing additional investments in existing funds, we negotiate terms for such funds and investments with our fund limited partners. The outcome of such negotiations could result in our agreement to terms that are materially less favorable to us than the terms of prior funds we have advised or funds advised by our competitors. Such terms could restrict our ability to raise investment funds with investment objectives or strategies that compete with existing funds, reduce fee revenues we earn, reduce the percentage of profits on third-party capital in which we share, increase the performance hurdle required to be generated on investment prior to our right to receive carried interest, add expenses and obligations for us in managing the fund or increase our potential liabilities. Furthermore, as institutional investors increasingly consolidate their relationships with investment firms and competition becomes more acute, we may receive more requests to modify the terms in our new funds. Certain of our newer funds also include more favorable terms for fund investors that commit to early closes for our funds. Additionally, in certain funds, we have agreed to charge management fees based on invested capital or net asset value as opposed to charging management fees based on committed capital. In certain cases, we have provided "fee holidays" to certain investors during which we do not charge management fees for a fixed period of time (such as the first six months). Agreement to terms that are materially less favorable to us could result in a material decrease in our profitability. 52 Certain institutional investors have also publicly criticized certain fund fee and expense structures, including monitoring fees and transaction fees. We have received and expect to continue to receive requests from a variety of fund investors and groups representing such investors to decrease fees and to modify our carried interest and incentive fee structures, which could result in a reduction or delay in the timing of receipt of the fees and carried interest and incentive fees we earn. The SEC has focused on certain fund fees and expenses, including whether such fees and expenses were appropriately disclosed to fund investors, and such focus may lead to increased publicity that could cause fund investors to further resist our receipt of certain fees and expense reimbursements. In our private equity funds and other funds since 2014, we have increased the percentage of transaction and monitoring fees that are credited against fund management fees to 100% of the amount of the transaction and monitoring fees attributable to that fund. In addition, certain institutional investors, including sovereign wealth funds and public pension funds, have demonstrated an increased preference for alternatives to the traditional investment fund structure, such as separately managed accounts, specialized funds and co-investment vehicles. We also have entered into strategic investor partnerships with specific investors whereby we manage that investor's capital across a variety of our products on separately negotiated terms. There can be no assurance that such alternatives will be as profitable to us as the traditional investment fund structure, and the impact such a trend could have on our results of operations, if widely implemented, is unclear. Moreover, certain institutional investors are demonstrating a preference to in-source their own investment professionals and to make direct investments in alternative assets without the assistance of investment advisers like us. Such institutional investors may become our competitors and could cease to be our clients. Any agreement to or changes in terms less favorable to us could materially and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. The investment management business is intensely competitive, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. We compete as an investment manager for both fund investors and investment opportunities. The investment management business is highly fragmented, with our competitors consisting primarily of sponsors of public and private investment funds, real estate development companies, business development companies, investment banks, commercial finance companies and operating companies acting as strategic buyers of businesses. We believe that competition for fund investors is based primarily on: • investment performance; • investor liquidity and willingness to invest; • investor perception of investment managers' drive, focus and alignment of interest; • business reputation; • the duration of relationships with fund investors; • the quality of services provided to fund investors; • pricing; • fund terms (including fees and expense reimbursement); • the relative attractiveness of the types of investments that have been or will be made; and • consideration for environmental, social and governance issues. We believe that competition for investment opportunities is based primarily on the pricing, terms and structure of a proposed investment and certainty of execution. A number of factors serve to increase our competitive risks: • a number of our competitors in some of our businesses may have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources and more personnel than we do, and, in the case of some asset classes or geographic regions, longer operating histories, more established relationships, greater expertise or better reputation; 53 • fund investors may materially decrease their allocations in new funds due to their experiences following an economic downturn, the limited availability of capital, regulatory requirements or a desire to consolidate their relationships with investment firms; • some of our competitors may have agreed to terms on their investment funds or products that are more favorable to fund investors than our funds or products, such as lower management fees, greater fee sharing or higher performance hurdles for carried interest, and therefore we may be forced to match or otherwise revise our terms to be less favorable to us than they have been in the past; • some of our funds may not perform as well as competitors' funds or other available investment products; • our competitors have raised or may raise significant amounts of capital, and many of them have similar investment objectives and strategies to our funds, which may create additional competition for investment opportunities and may reduce the size and duration of pricing inefficiencies that many alternative investment strategies seek to exploit; • some of these competitors may also have a lower cost of capital and access to funding sources that are not available to us, which may create competitive disadvantages for us with respect to investment opportunities; • some of our competitors may have higher risk tolerances, different risk assessments or lower return thresholds, which could allow them to consider a wider variety of investments and to bid more aggressively than us for investments; • some of our competitors may be subject to less regulation or less regulatory scrutiny and accordingly may have more flexibility to undertake and execute certain businesses or investments than we do and/or bear less expense to comply with such regulations than we do; • there are relatively few barriers to entry impeding the formation of new funds, including a relatively low cost of entering these businesses, and the successful efforts of new entrants into our various lines of business, including major commercial and investment banks and other financial institutions, have resulted in increased competition; • some fund investors may prefer to invest with an investment manager that is not publicly traded, is smaller or manages fewer investment products; and • other industry participants will from time to time seek to recruit our investment professionals and other employees away from us. We may lose investment opportunities in the future if we do not match investment prices, structures and terms offered by competitors. Our competitors that are corporate buyers may be able to achieve synergistic cost savings in respect of an investment, which may provide them with a competitive advantage in bidding for an investment. Alternatively, we may experience decreased investment returns and increased risks of loss if we match investment prices, structures and terms offered by competitors. Moreover, as a result, if we are forced to compete with other investment firms on the basis of price, we may not be able to maintain our current fund fee, carried interest or other terms. There is a risk that fees and carried interest in the alternative investment management industry will decline, without regard to the historical performance of a manager. Fee or carried interest income reductions on existing or future funds, without corresponding decreases in our cost structure, could materially and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. In addition, if interest rates were to rise or if market conditions for competing investment products become or are more favorable and such products begin to offer rates of return superior to those achieved by our funds, the attractiveness of our funds relative to investments in other investment products could decrease. This competitive pressure could materially and adversely affect our ability to make successful investments and limit our ability to raise future funds, either of which would adversely impact our business, results of operations and cash flow. We are subject to increasing focus by our fund investors, our stockholders and regulators on environmental, social and governance ("ESG") matters. Our fund investors, stockholders, regulators and other stakeholders are increasingly focused on ESG matters. Certain fund investors, including public pension funds, have considered our record of socially responsible investing and other ESG factors in determining whether to invest in our funds. Similarly, certain of our stockholders, particularly institutional investors, use third-party benchmarks or scores to measure our ESG practices, and decide whether to invest in our common stock or engage with us to require changes to our practices. If our ESG practices do not meet the standards set by these fund investors or stockholders, they may choose not to invest in our funds or exclude our common stock from their investments, and we may face reputational challenges by other stakeholders. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse impact on new 54 fundraises and negatively affect the price of our stock. In addition, there has also been an increased regulatory focus on ESG-related practices by investment managers. In 2021, the SEC established an enforcement task force to look into ESG practices and disclosures by public companies and investment managers and may impose more stringent regulation of ESG funds and ESG-related claims.  In addition, a new EU regulation on sustainability disclosure, which is intended to standardize the definition of environmentally sustainable investing, went into effect in March 2021. If regulators enact rules that govern ESG matters, such as climate change, or disagree with the procedures or standards we use for ESG investing, or new regulation or legislation requires a methodology of measuring or disclosing ESG impact that is different from our current practice, our business and reputation could be adversely affected.  See “—Extensive regulation of our businesses affects our activities and creates the potential for significant liabilities and penalties. The possibility of increased regulatory focus or legislative or regulatory changes could materially and adversely affect our business.” Changes in relevant tax laws, regulations or treaties or an adverse interpretation of these items by tax authorities could adversely impact our effective tax rate and tax liability. Our effective tax rate and tax liability is based on the application of current income tax laws, regulations and treaties. These laws, regulations and treaties are complex, and the manner which they apply to us and our funds is sometimes open to interpretation. Significant management judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes, our deferred tax assets and liabilities and any valuation allowance recorded against our net deferred tax assets. Although management believes its application of current laws, regulations and treaties to be correct and sustainable upon examination by the tax authorities, the tax authorities could challenge our interpretation resulting in additional tax liability or adjustment to our income tax provision that could increase our effective tax rate. Regarding the impact of our conversion to a corporation on our income taxes, see Note 18 "Income Taxes" in our financial statements. Tax laws, regulations or treaties newly enacted or enacted in the future may cause us to revalue our net deferred tax assets and have a material change to our effective tax rate and tax liabilities. Final regulations relating to compensation for certain covered employees under Section 162(m) could meaningfully reduce the amount of tax deductions available to us in 2021 and in future years. Additionally, foreign and state and local governments may enact tax laws that could result in further changes to foreign and state and local taxation and materially affect our financial position and results of operations. There could be significant changes in U.S. tax law and regulations. While the likelihood and nature of any such legislation or regulations is uncertain, any such changes could materially increase the amount of taxes we or our portfolio companies are required to pay.  Among other things, new laws could seek to increase the corporate tax rate or corporate tax base (for example, by way of a book minimum tax), limit further the deductibility of interest, and subject non-U.S. taxable income to a higher level of U.S. tax. Any such tax changes could materially increase the amount of taxes we, our portfolio companies and our investors would be required to pay directly or indirectly. For example, increases in the corporate tax rate may adversely impact the cash flow of our portfolio companies and result in our funds selling those assets at values that are less than we projected, which would in turn have negative impact to the investment fund’s performance and to the pace of realizations. Other changes that could be enacted in the future, including changes to tax laws enacted by state or local governments in jurisdictions in which we or our portfolio companies operate, could result in further changes to state and local taxation and materially adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. The U.S. Congress, the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (the "OECD") and other government agencies in jurisdictions in which we and our affiliates invest or do business have maintained a focus on issues related to the taxation of multinational companies, such as KKR. The OECD, which represents a coalition of member countries, is contemplating changes to numerous long-standing tax principles through its base erosion and profit shifting ("BEPS") project, which is focused on a number of issues, including profit shifting among affiliated entities in different jurisdictions, interest deductibility and eligibility for the benefits of double tax treaties. Several of the proposed measures, including measures covering treaty abuse (including an anti-abuse "principal purpose" test that would deny treaty benefits to the extent that obtaining such benefit was one of the principal purposes of any arrangement or transaction that resulted directly or indirectly in such benefit), the deductibility of interest expense, local nexus requirements, transfer pricing and hybrid mismatch arrangements are potentially relevant to some of our structures and could have an adverse tax impact on our funds, investors and/or our portfolio companies. Some member countries have been moving forward on the BEPS agenda but, because timing of implementation and the specific measures adopted will vary among participating states, significant uncertainty remains regarding the impact of BEPS proposals. If implemented, these and other proposals could result in a loss of tax treaty benefits and increased taxes on income from our investments. In addition, the OECD is working on a two pillar initiative, “BEPS 2.0”, which is aimed at (1) shifting taxing rights to the jurisdiction of the consumer (“Pillar One”) and (2) ensuring all companies pay a global minimum tax (“Pillar Two”). For countries other than the U.S., the OECD recommended model rules for Pillar Two in late 2021. For the U.S., the OECD is expected to complete its recommendation in early 2022 with the release of commentary on the interaction between the model rules and current U.S. tax law. Countries or jurisdictions may implement the recommended model rules as drafted, in a modified form, or not at all. Our business and our portfolio companies’ businesses could be 55 significantly impacted if the model rules, or any future variation, are implemented in any of the countries in which our business, our portfolio companies’ businesses, or our investment structures are located. The timing and scope of any provisions remain subject to significant uncertainty. We depend on our founders and other key personnel, the loss of whose services could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We depend on the efforts, skills, reputations and business contacts of our employees, including our founders, Henry Kravis and George Roberts, and other key personnel, the information and deal flow they and others generate during the normal course of their activities and the synergies among the diverse fields of expertise and knowledge held by our professionals. Accordingly, our success depends on the continued service of these individuals, who are not obligated to remain employed with us. The loss of the services of any of them could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, net income and cash flows and could harm our ability to maintain or grow AUM in existing funds or raise additional funds in the future. Our employees and other key personnel possess substantial experience and expertise and have strong business relationships with investors in our funds and other members of the business community. As a result, the loss of these personnel could jeopardize our relationships with investors in our funds and members of the business community and result in the reduction of AUM or fewer investment opportunities. For example, if any of our key personnel were to join or form a competing firm, our business, results of operations and financial condition could suffer. Global Atlantic's business similarly depends on the ability to attract and retain experienced insurance professionals. Global Atlantic does not have a captive distribution force and must attract and retain life insurance agents who may also sell products of other insurers. Global Atlantic's Bermuda business must maintain key personnel in Bermuda. As a result, if Global Atlantic is unable to recruit Bermudian employees, or obtain or renew work permits for current or prospective non-Bermudian employees, Global Atlantic's Bermuda insurance subsidiaries may not be able to maintain their operations and support growth in the business. Furthermore, the agreements governing our committed capital funds generally provide that in the event certain "key persons" (for example, investment professionals who are named as "key executives" for certain geographically or product focused funds) cease to actively manage a fund or be substantially involved in KKR activities, investors in the fund will be entitled to reduce, in whole or in part, their capital commitments available for further investments on an investor-by-investor basis. In the case of certain of our fully paid-up funds, investors may be permitted to terminate their investment in the event a "key persons" provision is triggered, which could possibly lead to a liquidation of those funds. In addition, the occurrence of such a "key person" event could cause us to agree to less favorable ongoing terms with respect to the affected fund. Although we periodically engage in discussions with the limited partners of our funds regarding a waiver of such provisions with respect to executives involved in geographically or product focused funds whose departures have occurred or are anticipated, such waiver is not guaranteed, and our limited partners' refusal to provide a waiver may have a material adverse effect on our revenue, net income and cash flow. If we cannot retain and motivate our employees and other key personnel and recruit, retain and motivate new employees and other key personnel, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Our most important asset is our people, and our continued success is highly dependent upon the efforts of our employees and other key personnel, and to a substantial degree on our ability to retain and motivate our employees and other key personnel and to strategically recruit, retain and motivate new talented employees, including qualified investment professionals. However, we may not be successful in these efforts as the market for talented and qualified candidates is extremely competitive. Our ability to recruit, retain and motivate our employees is dependent on our ability to offer highly attractive incentive opportunities. Under the 2017 Tax Act, investments must be held for more than three years, rather than the prior requirement of more than one year, for carried interest to be treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as capital gain. The longer holding period requirement may result in some of our carried interest being treated as ordinary income, which would materially increase the amount of taxes that our employees and other key personnel would be required to pay, thereby adversely affecting our ability to offer attractive incentive opportunities. In addition, the tax treatment of carried interest may continue to be an area of focus for policymakers and government officials, which could result in a further regulatory action by federal or state governments. For example, the current U.S. administration may seek to treat carried interest as ordinary income, and certain states, including New York and California, have proposed legislation to levy additional state tax on carried interest, which may also negatively affect our ability to attract and retain employees and key personnel. Similarly, changes in the United Kingdom with respect to the taxation of carried interest, including the treatment of certain carried interest returns as income, which became effective from April 6, 2016, may impact our ability to recruit, retain and motivate employees and key personnel in the United Kingdom. In addition, there have been proposed laws and regulations that sought to regulate the compensation of certain of our employees, including regulations to clawback their compensation in certain circumstances. See “—Extensive regulation of our business affects our activities and creates the potential for significant liabilities and penalties. The possibility of increased regulatory focus or legislative or regulatory changes could materially and adversely affect our business.” The loss of even a small number of our investment professionals could jeopardize the performance of our funds and other investment products, which would have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Efforts to retain or attract employees, including our 56 investment professionals, may result in significant additional expenses, which could materially and adversely affect our profitability. Many of our employees hold interests in our carry pool through KKR Associates Holdings L.P. Currently 40%, 43% or 65%, as applicable, of the carried interest earned from our investment funds is allocated to our carry pool. There can be no assurance that the carry pool will have sufficient cash available to continue to make cash payments in the future and fluctuations from the distributions generated from the carry pool, if not offset by funds from other sources, including other performance-based income, could render the compensation that KKR pays to be less attractive. In any of these circumstances, a higher percentage of our revenue may be required to be paid as cash compensation, which could have a material adverse impact on our profit margins. We are not permitted under our certificate of incorporation to increase the percentage of carried interest allocable to the carry pool without the consent of a majority of our independent directors. We have granted equity awards from our Equity Incentive Plans and expect to continue to grant equity awards from our 2019 Equity Incentive Plan, which has caused and will cause dilution. If we increase the use of equity awards in the future, expense associated with equity-based compensation may increase materially. For example, in 2021 we issued equity awards with respect to 24.5 million shares of common stock under our 2019 Equity Incentive Plan, of which 19.5 million represent market condition awards subject to both stock price target requirements and service requirements. In addition, KKR Holdings granted 2.3 million KKR Holdings units to certain senior employees. These KKR Holdings awards were granted from outstanding but previously unallocated units of KKR Holdings, and consequently these grants did not increase the number of KKR Holdings units outstanding or outstanding KKR common units on a fully-diluted basis. See "Executive Compensation—Narrative Disclosure to Summary Compensation Table and Grants of Plan-Based Awards—Terms of KKR Holdings Units" for the terms and conditions of such KKR Holdings units. The value of the KKR Holdings units and KKR common stock and may drop in value or be volatile, which may make our equity less attractive to our employees. In July 2015, the SEC proposed rules, as mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act, requiring companies to develop and enforce recovery policies that in the event of an accounting restatement, “claw back” from current and former executive officers incentive-based compensation they would not have received based on the restatement. In April and May 2016, the SEC also issued for public comment revised proposed rules designed to prohibit certain incentive-based compensation arrangements deemed to encourage inappropriate risk taking by covered financial institutions by providing “excessive” compensation, fees or benefits or that could lead to material losses. Although the SEC has not adopted the proposed rules to date, in October 2021, the SEC re-opened the comment period on the proposed “claw back” rules for compensation, and depending on the outcome of the rule making process, the application of these rules to us could require us to substantially revise our compensation strategy, increase our compensation and other costs, and materially and adversely affect our ability to recruit and retain qualified employees. In addition, less carried interest from the carry pool may be allocated to certain of our employees, which may result in less cash payments to such employees. To the extent our equity incentive or carry pool programs are not effective, we may be limited in our ability to attract, retain and motivate talented employees and other key personnel and we may need to increase the level of cash compensation that we pay. In addition, there is no guarantee that the confidentiality and restrictive covenant agreements to which our executives, employees and other key personnel are subject, together with our other arrangements with them, will prevent them from leaving us, joining our competitors or otherwise competing with us. Depending on which entity is a party to these agreements and/or the laws applicable to them, we may not be able to, or may choose not to, enforce them or become subject to lawsuits or other claims, and certain of these agreements might be waived, modified or amended at any time without our consent. Even when enforceable, these agreements expire after a certain period of time, at which point each of our executives, employees and other key personnel are free to compete against us and solicit our fund investors and employees. See “Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence—Confidentiality and Restrictive Covenant Agreements.” Furthermore, we also rely significantly on consultants and other contingent workers, and our failure to effectively manage this workforce could adversely affect our results of operations. Our ability to manage the costs associated with engaging a contingent workforce may also be impacted by more stringent labor rights laws in the future. We strive to maintain a work environment that reinforces our culture of collaboration, inclusiveness, motivation and alignment of interests with fund investors. If we do not continue to develop and implement the right processes and tools to manage our changing enterprise and maintain our culture, our ability to compete successfully and achieve our business objectives could be impaired, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Operational risks may disrupt our businesses, result in losses or limit our growth. We rely heavily on our financial, accounting and other data processing systems and on the systems of third parties who provide services to us. If any of these systems do not operate properly, are disabled or not appropriately updated, we could suffer financial loss, a disruption of our businesses, liability to our funds, regulatory intervention, fines, sanctions or reputational damage. In addition, we operate in businesses that are highly dependent on information systems and technology. 57 For example, we face operational risk from errors made in the execution, confirmation or settlement of transactions and reliance on manual processes in certain circumstances. We also face operational risk from transactions not being properly recorded, evaluated or accounted for in our funds. In particular, our Public Markets business line is highly dependent on our ability to process and evaluate, on a daily basis, transactions across markets and geographies in a time-sensitive, efficient and accurate manner. Our and our third-party service providers' information systems and technology may not continue to be able to accommodate our growth, may not be able to adequately protect the information of our clients, may not be suitable for new products and strategies (including instruments using SOFR or another successor rate to LIBOR) and may be subject to security risks, and the cost of maintaining such systems and technology may increase from our current level. Such a failure to accommodate growth, or an increase in costs related to such information systems and technology, could have a material adverse effect on our business. We are also dependent on an increasingly concentrated group of third-party vendors that we do not control for hosting solutions and technologies. A disaster or a disruption in technology or infrastructure that supports our businesses, including a disruption involving electronic communications or other services used by us, our vendors or third parties with whom we conduct business, including paying agents and escrow agents, or directly affecting our principal offices, could have a material adverse impact on our ability to continue to operate our business without interruption. Our business continuation or disaster recovery programs may not be sufficient to mitigate the harm that may result from such a disaster or disruption. In addition, insurance and other safeguards might only partially reimburse us for our losses, if at all. Furthermore, most of our administrative personnel and our information system and technology infrastructure for the asset management business are located in our New York City office. Any disruption in the operation of, or inability to access, our New York City office could have a significant impact on our business, and such risk of disruption or inaccessibility could be heightened during the COVID-19 pandemic. Cyber-security failures and data security breaches may disrupt or have a material adverse impact on our businesses, operations and investments. We rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. We face various security threats on a regular basis, including ongoing cyber-security threats to and attacks on our information technology infrastructure that are intended to gain access to our proprietary information, destroy data or disable, degrade or sabotage our systems. Although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant, our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to unauthorized access, theft, misuse, computer viruses or other malicious code, and other events that could have a security impact. We may be exposed to a more significant risk if these acts are taken by state actors. We and our employees have been and expect to continue to be the target of fraudulent calls and emails, and the subject of impersonations and fraudulent requests for money, including attempts to redirect material payment amounts in a transaction to a fraudulent bank account, and other forms of activities. Cyber-criminals may attempt to redirect payments required to be paid at the closings of our investments to unauthorized accounts, which we or the services providers we retain, like paying agents and escrow agents, may not be able to detect or protect against. The COVID-19 pandemic has exacerbated these risks due to heavier reliance on online communication and remote working environment, which are less secure, and a significant increase in ransomware and other hacking  attempts by cyber-criminals. The costs related to cyber or other security threats or disruptions may not be fully insured or indemnified by others, including by our service providers. Cyber-security has become a top priority for regulators around the world. Many jurisdictions in which we operate have laws and regulations relating to data privacy, cyber-security and protection of personal information, including the General Data Protection Regulation in the European Union that became effective in May 2018 and the California Consumer Privacy Act that became effective in January 2020. Some jurisdictions have also enacted laws requiring companies to notify individuals of data security breaches involving certain types of personal data. Global Atlantic, in particular, processes sensitive personal information of its policyholders, which exposes Global Atlantic to a heightened risk, as discussed in "—Risks Related to Global Atlantic—Business Risks Related to Global Atlantic—Any failure to protect the confidentiality of client information could adversely affect Global Atlantic's reputation and have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations." Breaches in security could potentially jeopardize our, our employees', our fund investors', Global Atlantic policyholders' or counterparties' confidential and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, our employees', our fund investors', our policyholders', our counterparties' or third parties' operations, which could result in significant losses, increased costs, disruption of our business, liability to our fund investors and other counterparties, regulatory intervention or reputational damage. Furthermore, if we experience a cyber-security incident and fail to comply with the relevant laws and regulations, it could result in regulatory investigations and penalties, which could lead to negative publicity and may cause our fund investors and clients to lose confidence in the effectiveness of our security measures. 58 We rely on third-party service providers for certain aspects of our business, including for certain information systems, escrow services, paying agent services, trustee services, insurance policy administration, legal services, technology, administration, tax, accounting and compliance matters. These third-party service providers could also experience any of the above cyber-security threats, fraudulent activities or security breaches, and as a result, unauthorized individuals could improperly gain access to our confidential data. Any interruption or deterioration in the performance of these third parties or cyber-security incidents involving these third parties could impair the quality of our and our funds' operations and could impact our reputation and materially and adversely affect our businesses and limit our ability to grow. Our portfolio companies also rely on data processing systems and the secure processing, storage and transmission of information, including payment and health information. A disruption or compromise of these systems could have a material adverse effect on the value of these businesses. Our funds may invest in strategic assets having a national or regional profile or in infrastructure, the nature of which could expose them to a greater risk of being subject to a terrorist attack or security breach than other assets or businesses. Such an event may have material adverse consequences on our investment or assets of the same type or may require portfolio companies to increase preventative security measures or expand insurance coverage. Our organizational documents do not limit our ability to enter into new lines of businesses, and we may expand into new investment strategies, geographic markets and businesses, each of which may result in additional risks and uncertainties in our businesses. We intend, to the extent that market conditions warrant, to seek to grow our businesses by increasing AUM in existing businesses, pursuing new investment strategies (including investment opportunities in new asset classes), developing new types of investment structures and products (such as publicly listed vehicles, separately managed accounts and structured products), and expanding into new geographic markets and businesses. We have in the past opened many offices to conduct our asset management and capital markets businesses around the world in Europe, the Middle East and Asia-Pacific, which we intend to grow and expand. We have also launched a number of new investment initiatives in areas such as core plus real estate, real estate credit, core infrastructure, growth equity, core private equity, and impact investments.  We also increasingly manage investment vehicles owned by retail investors, which subject us to additional risk.  See also “—Certain types of investment vehicles may subject us to additional risk of litigation and regulatory scrutiny.” Introducing new types of investment structures and products could increase the complexities involved in managing such investments, including ensuring compliance with regulatory requirements and terms of the investment. See “—We may not be successful in executing upon or managing the complexities of new investment strategies, markets and businesses, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition.” Our organic growth strategy focuses on providing resources to foster the development of new product offerings and business strategies by our investment professionals and launching successor and related products, such that our new strategies achieve a level of scale and profitability. Given our diverse platform, these initiatives could create conflicts of interests with existing products, increase our costs and expose us to new market risks, and legal and regulatory requirements. The success of our organic growth strategy will also depend on, among other things, our ability to correctly identify and create products that appeal to the limited partners of our funds and vehicles. While we have made significant expenditures to develop these new strategies and products, there is no assurance that they will achieve a satisfactory level of scale and profitability. To raise new funds and pursue new strategies, we have and expect to continue to use our balance sheet to warehouse seed investments, which may decrease the liquidity available for other parts of our business. If a new strategy or fund does not develop as anticipated and such investments are not ultimately transferred to a fund, we may be forced to realize losses on these retained investments. We have and may continue to pursue growth through acquisitions of other investment management companies, acquisitions of critical business partners, strategic partnerships or other strategic initiatives, which may include entering into new lines of business. In addition, we expect opportunities will arise to acquire other alternative or traditional investment managers. For example, we have expanded our European credit business with our acquisition of Avoca in 2014. We have also made minority investments in hedge fund managers, and we have entered into joint ventures with third parties to participate in new real estate investment strategies. In April 2018, we completed our transaction to form FS/KKR Advisor, a strategic partnership with FS Investments, to provide investment advisory services to our business development company. In February 2021, we expanded into the insurance business by acquiring Global Atlantic. To the extent we make strategic investments or acquisitions, undertake other strategic initiatives or enter into a new line of business, we will face numerous risks and uncertainties, including risks associated with: • our ability to successfully negotiate and enter into beneficial arrangements with our counterparties; • the required investment of capital and other resources; • the incurrence of substantial transaction-related costs including non-recurring transaction-related costs; 59 • delays or failure to complete an acquisition or other transaction in a timely manner or at all due to a failure to obtain shareholder or regulatory approvals or satisfy any other closing conditions, which may subject us to damages or require us to pay significant costs; • lawsuits challenging an acquisition or unfavorable judgments in such lawsuits, which may prevent the closing of the transaction, cause delays, or require us to incur substantial costs including in costs associated with the indemnification of directors; • the possibility that we have insufficient expertise to engage in such activities profitably or without incurring inappropriate amounts of risk or liability or have not appropriately planned for such activities; • the possibility of diversion of management's time and attention from our core business; • the possibility of disruption of our ongoing business; • the failure to realize the anticipated benefits from an acquired business or strategic partnership in a timely manner, if at all; • combining, integrating or developing operational and management systems and controls including an acquired business's internal controls and procedures; • integration of the businesses including the employees of an acquired business; • potential increase in concentration of the investors in our funds; • disagreements with joint venture partners or other stakeholders in our hedge fund partnerships and our strategic partnerships; • the additional business risks of the acquired business and the broadening of our geographic footprint, including the risks associated with conducting operations in foreign jurisdictions such as taxation; • properly managing conflicts of interests; • our ability to obtain requisite regulatory approvals and licenses without undue cost or delay and without being required to comply with material restrictions or material conditions that would be detrimental to us or to the combined organization; • our ability to comply with new regulatory regimes; and • regulatory scrutiny or litigation exposure due to the activities of the acquired business, hedge fund partners or joint venture partners. Entry into new strategies or certain lines of business may subject us to new laws and regulations with which we are not familiar, or from which we are currently exempt, and may lead to increased litigation and regulatory risk and costs. If a new business generates insufficient revenues or if we are unable to efficiently manage our expanded operations, our results of operations will be adversely affected. Our strategic initiatives include joint ventures or the acquisition of minority interests in third parties, in which case we will be subject to additional risks and uncertainties in that we may be dependent upon, and subject to liability, losses or reputational damage relating to, systems, controls and personnel that are not under our control. In addition, as an insurance company, Global Atlantic’s ability to grow is dependent on the sufficiency of its capital base to support that growth. Global Atlantic may need to seek additional capital to manage its growth, and Global Atlantic may not be able to maintain its current strong capital position as it grows. As Global Atlantic grows, it must invest additional assets. If Global Atlantic is unable to take advantage of investment opportunities and adequately manage its investments and capital, Global Atlantic’s financial condition and results of operations in the future could be less favorable than in historical periods.  Growth may increase the risk of service problems with policyholder administration, and Global Atlantic may need to expend additional resources to provide consistent service. Any negative impact on the quality of customer service Global Atlantic provides may cause reputational harm. Global Atlantic also considers its operational capabilities, including at third-party administrators, when considering what products and solutions to offer and its ability to adjust terms on its products. Future growth will also impose added responsibilities on Global Atlantic’s management, including the need to identify, recruit, maintain and integrate additional employees, and to implement more complex organizational management structures. Growth may also introduce additional regulatory complexity. There is also a risk that Global Atlantic will not be able to manage its expenses effectively or scale its business as it grows. Global Atlantic’s ability to reinsure business to its Bermuda reinsurance 60 subsidiaries may also be limited by law or regulation, and accordingly Global Atlantic may not realize any benefits from its efficient operating structure on this new business. Global Atlantic’s failure to manage growth effectively for the reasons discussed above could have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. If Global Atlantic’s businesses do not perform well and/or their estimated fair values decline, Global Atlantic may be required to recognize an impairment of goodwill, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. We may not be successful in executing upon or managing the complexities of new investment strategies, investment products, markets and businesses, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our growth strategy is based, in part, on the expansion of our platform through selective investment in, and development or acquisition of, businesses, investment products and investment strategies complementary to our business. The expansion into new products and geographies has demanded greater management attention and dedication of resources to manage the increasing complexity of operations and regulatory compliance. For example, we developed and completed several structured transactions in which KKR provides subordinated or equity financing and third party investors provide senior financing to an investment vehicle that invests in our funds. In addition to the increased operational complexity and cost that arise from the structure and bespoke terms of these transactions, because of the subordinated nature of KKR's interests, we are at risk of losing all of our capital committed to these transactions ahead of any third party if the vehicle's investments do not perform as expected. This growth strategy involves a number of risks, including the risk that: the expected synergies from a newly developed product or strategic alliance will not be realized; the expected results will not be achieved; new strategies are not appropriately planned for or integrated into the firm; the new strategies may conflict, detract from or compete against our existing businesses; the investment process, controls and procedures that we have developed around our existing platform will prove insufficient or inadequate; or our information systems and technology, including related security systems, may prove to be inadequate. We have entered into strategic investor partnerships and established separately managed accounts, which lack the scale of our traditional funds and are more costly to administer. The prevalence of these accounts may also present conflicts and introduce complexity in the deployment of capital. The offering of investment products to retail investors, including any funds registered under the Investment Company Act and other publicly listed vehicles, may result in increased compliance and litigation costs. We may also incur significant charges in connection with such investments, which ultimately may result in significant losses and costs.  Any such losses and costs could adversely impact our business, results of operations and financial condition, as well as harm our professional reputation.  See also “—Adverse legal and regulatory developments against special purpose acquisition companies (“SPACs”) and their sponsors could adversely affect our business and reputation and result in significant losses and expenses." Adverse legal and regulatory developments relating to special purpose acquisition companies (“SPACs”) and their sponsors could adversely affect our business and reputation and result in significant losses and expenses. We have co-sponsored a SPAC, KKR Acquisition Holdings I Corp., and may in the future elect to sponsor or otherwise utilize SPACs or other blank check companies in connection with the operation of our business. Regulatory and legal scrutiny of SPACs and other blank check companies increased significantly in 2021 and has continued into 2022.  For example, the SEC’s Chairman has publicly announced his intention to propose rules around the marketing practices, disclosure requirements and liability obligations for SPACs and their sponsors and, in 2021, the SEC’s staff issued statements relating to certain accounting classifications applicable to the financial statements prepared by SPACs, leading to many SPACs, including our sponsored SPAC, having to restate their financial statements.  The SEC has also recently brought an enforcement action against a SPAC and its sponsor for misleading claims in advance of a proposed business combination. In addition, litigation challenging completed and pending acquisitions by SPACs has increased, and in such litigation it is possible that sponsors and/or their director designees may be held liable either for breaches of fiduciary duties owed to the SPAC’s public stockholders or for certain actions or omissions by the SPAC, including the failure by the SPAC to comply with applicable securities laws. Litigation has also arisen asserting that SPACs are violating federal securities laws by operating as unregistered investment companies.  Any liabilities arising from these developments could adversely impact our business as well as harm our professional reputation.  Moreover, we may lose all or a portion of our investment in any SPAC that we sponsor or become affiliated with if a business combination is not completed as contemplated or if the business combination is unsuccessful, which may also result in significant regulatory scrutiny, litigation costs and other expenses. 61 If we are unable to syndicate the securities or indebtedness or realize returns on investments financed with our balance sheet assets, or if our structured transactions do not perform as expected, then our liquidity, business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. Our balance sheet assets provide us with a significant source of capital to grow and expand our business, increase our participation in our transactions and underwrite commitments in our capital markets business. We have used our balance sheet assets to underwrite loans, securities or other financial instruments, which we generally expect to syndicate to third parties. We also entered into arrangements with third parties that reduce our risk associated with holding unsold securities when underwriting certain debt transactions, which enables our capital markets business to underwrite a larger amount. To the extent that we are unable to syndicate our commitments to third parties or our risk reduction arrangement does not fully perform as anticipated, we may be required to sell such investments at a significant loss or hold them indefinitely. If we are required to retain investments on our balance sheet for an extended period of time, our results would be directly impacted by the performance of such investments and it would also impair our capital markets business’ ability to complete additional transactions, either of which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. See also “—Underwriting, syndicating and securities placement activities expose us to risks, and our risk management strategy may not effective or sufficient”. We generally have a larger balance sheet than many of our competitors, and consequently, the performance of these balance sheet assets has a greater impact on our results of operations. In particular, during a period when our balance sheet assets are concentrated in a limited number of investments, results from a small number of investments can have a significant impact on our balance sheet performance. Our success in deploying our balance sheet assets and generating returns on this capital will depend, among other things, on the availability of suitable opportunities after giving priority in investment opportunities to our advisory clients, the level of competition from other companies that may have greater financial resources and our ability to value potential development or acquisition opportunities accurately and negotiate acceptable terms for those opportunities. To the extent we are unsuccessful in deploying our balance sheet assets, our business and financial results may suffer. Our balance sheet assets have been a significant source of capital for new strategies and products. To the extent that such strategies or products are not successful or our balance sheet assets cease to provide adequate liquidity, we would realize losses on our balance sheet investments or become limited in our ability to seed new businesses or support our existing business as effectively as contemplated.  For example, we may acquire investments using our balance sheet capital and warehouse these investments while fundraising a particular fund.  We expect our balance sheet capital to be returned to us if such fund has a successful fundraise.  However, if the fundraising is not successful, or if fund investors are not willing to pay for these warehoused investments, then we may realize losses on these warehoused investments or otherwise suffer an adverse impact in our liquidity, business, results of operations and financial condition. We have also developed and completed several structured transactions in which our balance sheet provides subordinated or equity financing and third party investors provide senior financing to an investment vehicle that invests in our funds and certain other investment assets. We have also entered into a similarly structured transaction where the cash flows of our balance sheet’s capital commitments to our funds have been effectively pledged as collateral for the investment vehicle.  In addition to the increased operational complexity and cost that arise from the structure and bespoke terms of these transactions, because of the subordinated nature of KKR’s interests, we are at risk of losing all of our interests in these transactions ahead of any third party if the investments do not perform as expected. As of December 31, 2021, total balance sheet investments made by KKR in these structured transactions were approximately $1.5 billion, and, in addition, we have agreed to fund or otherwise be liable for a portion of up to a maximum of $116 million in investment losses and/or to provide liquidity upon certain termination events (the maximum amount of which is currently unknown. See “—We may not be successful in executing upon or managing the complexities of new investment strategies, markets and businesses, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition” and Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity—Contractual Obligations, Commitments and Contingencies” . Extensive regulation of our businesses affects our activities and creates the potential for significant liabilities and penalties. The possibility of increased regulatory focus or legislative or regulatory changes could materially and adversely affect our business. Our business is subject to extensive regulation, including periodic examinations, inquiries and investigations by governmental and self-regulatory organizations in the jurisdictions in which we operate around the world. Many of these regulators, including U.S. federal and state and foreign government agencies and self-regulatory organizations, are empowered to impose fines, restrictions on activities, suspensions of personnel or other sanctions, including censure, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders or the suspension or expulsion of applicable licenses and memberships. Any of the foregoing may damage our relationships with existing and potential fund investors, impair our ability to raise capital for successor funds, impair our ability to carry out our investment strategies, impair Global Atlantic's ability to conduct its insurance business, or contravene provisions concerning compliance with law in agreements to which we are a party. Even if a sanction is not imposed or the 62 sanction imposed against us or our personnel by a regulator were small in monetary amount, the adverse publicity relating to the regulatory activity or imposition of these sanctions could harm our reputation and cause us to lose existing fund investors or fail to gain new fund investors or to lose or fail to gain new policyholders or ceding parties. The private equity industry has been and continues to be under intense regulatory and news media scrutiny with governmental officials and regulators, focusing on the private equity industry’s fees, the taxation of its investments, the business practices and operations of its portfolio companies, conflicts of interest, and other issues. In particular, the SEC’s past areas of focus on private equity firms have included, among others, conflicts of interest, allocation of investment opportunities, the allocation of fees and expenses, including the acceleration of monitoring fees and the allocation of broken-deal and other expenses, valuation practices, the disclosure, use and compensation of operating partners or consultants as well as third-party compliance or similar service providers, outside investment and business activities of firm principals and employees, group purchasing arrangements, disclosure of affiliated service providers, disclosure of conflicts of interest, electronic messaging, cyber-security, data privacy and protection, the use of purchased data, valuation, retail investors, foreign bribery and corruption, and policies covering custody, auditing, handling of material nonpublic information, insider trading, business continuity and transition planning. Certain Recent and Potential Regulatory Changes • In 2021, the SEC and its staff promulgated examination priorities and observations that specifically identified private fund managers as a priority and, in particular, highlighted the SEC’s focus on managers that have a greater impact on retail investors, controls with respect to the misuse of material non-public information, portfolio valuations, conflicts of interest including with respect to allocation of investment opportunities, relationships with clients, preferential liquidity rights, disclosure and compliance with requirements for cross trades, principal investments or distressed sales, calculation and other considerations with respect to fees and expenses, as well as managers’ supervisory, compliance and risk management systems related thereto and the use of affiliated service providers for clients. • In 2021, the SEC proposed rules that would require any entity that establishes positions in security-based swaps above certain specified threshold levels to file reports with the SEC, which would become publicly available.  This requirement could adversely affect aspects of our business by making it more costly and burdensome, and potentially impractical, to enter into security-based swap transactions. • In 2021, the SEC established an enforcement task force to investigate ESG practices and disclosures by public companies and investment managers, and the SEC may propose and implement impose rules to regulate ESG funds and ESG-related claims. See "—We are subject to increasing focus by our fund investors, our stockholders and regulators on environmental, social and governance ("ESG") matters." • On March 31, 2021, the Treasury Secretary and Chair of the Financial Stability Oversight Committee (“FSOC”) announced that the FSOC had re-established its hedge fund working group.  The activities and potential recommendations of this working group could subject certain aspects of our business, including our hedge fund partnerships, and the hedge fund industry to heightened media and regulatory scrutiny. • In early 2022, the SEC has proposed a number of significant changes that, if promulgated, will affect our business.  On January 26, 2022, the SEC proposed significant changes to Form PF, including a requirement to report within one business day certain transactions and fund-level events and a requirement to disclose, among other things, details about the use of leverage by funds and portfolio companies and the capitalization and restructurings of portfolio companies.  On February 9, 2022, the SEC proposed rules regarding the management of private funds like the funds we manage, the handling of cybersecurity risks, and trade clearance and settlement.  The proposed rules regarding the management of private funds are significant and include, among other things, prohibiting certain preferential treatment to investors and providing transparency on other forms of preferential treatment; limitations on our ability to seek reimbursement, indemnification, exculpation, or limitation of liability for certain activities; charging certain fees and expenses to our funds or their portfolio companies, such as fees for unperformed services, which the SEC has proposed to include accelerated monitoring fees (which we have historically charged and which amounts have been financially significant for us in some historical periods) and fees associated with an examination or investigation of our affiliated investment advisers; reducing the amount of our clawback of carried interest by the amount of certain taxes; charging fees or expenses related to a portfolio investment on a non-pro rata basis; and borrowing or receiving an extension of credit from our private fund clients. On February 10, 2022, the SEC also proposed rules to amend how the beneficial ownership of securities is reported.  These proposed changes, if they become effective, are expected to increase the costs of compliance, expose us to regulatory scrutiny, censure and penalties if we are unable to comply, and could in certain instances reduce our revenues. • The SEC’s amended rules for investment adviser marketing will become effective in November 2022.  The rule imposes more prescriptive requirements to our marketing, and will impact the marketing of our funds and our other 63 investment advisory functions, as well as placement agent arrangements in the United States and outside the United States. Compliance with the new rule may result in higher compliance and operational costs and less overall flexibility in our marketing. • On December 7, 2021, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners Financial Stability Task Force published for comment a list of “Regulatory Considerations Applicable (But Not Exclusive) to Private Equity (PE) Owned Insurers.” The considerations list 13 topics for review, including, identifying all control and affiliate relationships of private-equity owned insurers, including use of complex structures, offshore reinsurers and sidecars, scrutinizing the terms of investment management agreements and affiliate investments, and assessing operating, governance and market conduct practices, such as overreliance on third-party administrators. In addition, the FSOC 2021 annual report expressed concern that the acquisition of life insurers or assumption of life business through reinsurers owned by private equity firms may “increase interconnectivity” among non-bank lenders, insurers, and broader financial markets and the Federal Insurance Office 2021 annual report stated that private-equity owned insurers face greater conflicts and may have heightened credit and liquidity risk profiles and sensitivity to downturns. Our relationships with Global Atlantic and other insurers and reinsurers will be subject to additional scrutiny and potentially additional regulatory requirements, which may have a material impact on our business, reputation, results of operations and financial condition. See also "—Regulatory Risks Related to Global Atlantic—Global Atlantic's businesses are heavily regulated across numerous jurisdictions, and changes in regulation could reduce Global Atlantic's profitability." • On November 25, 2021, the European Commission proposed a directive amending the European Union’s Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive (the “AIFMD”) with respect to delegation arrangements, liquidity risk management, supervisory reporting, provision of depositary and custody services and loan origination by alternative investment funds.  It is not currently clear what changes to the AIFMD could be implemented and what impact any such changes would have on us or our funds, which could be material. • The European Union's Investment Firms Directive and the Investment Firms Regulation imposes a new prudential regime beginning on January 1, 2022 for investment firms in Europe, as well as various governance and remuneration obligations, the costs to comply with which may be material. • On May 5, 2021, the European Commission adopted a proposal for a regulation to address distortions caused by foreign subsidies, expected to come into force in mid-2023, which, subject to certain thresholds, will require mandatory notification of acquisitions involving financial contributions by non-European Union governments.  This may increase our notification obligations and increase costs when making or exiting investments involving the European Union. • Following the exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union on January 31, 2020 ( “Brexit”), the United Kingdom and the European Union issued a Joint Declaration on Financial Services Regulatory Cooperation stating the intent to enter into a memorandum of understanding by March 2021 to establish the framework for regulatory cooperation on financial services.  However, no such memorandum of understanding has yet been published, and there is no arrangement in place that allows broad market access between the United Kingdom and the European Union. Any material changes could materially increase the costs of our compliance in the United Kingdom or the European Union. Any of these changes or potential changes in the regulatory framework applicable to our business (including any changes or potential changes that are not described above or that we are unaware of or that may arise from new leadership at regulators and in governments in the U.S. and abroad), as well as adverse news media attention, may: impose additional expenses or capital requirements on us; limit our fundraising for our investment products; result in limitations in the manner in which our business is conducted; have an adverse impact upon our results of operations, financial condition, reputation or prospects; impair employee retention or recruitment; and require substantial attention by senior management. It is impossible to determine the extent of the impact of any new laws, regulations, initiatives or regulatory guidance that may be proposed or may become law on our business or the markets in which we operate. If enacted, any new law, regulation, initiatives or regulatory guidance could negatively impact our funds and us in a number of ways, including: increasing our costs and the cost for our funds of investing, borrowing, hedging or operating; increasing the funds’ or our regulatory operating costs; imposing additional burdens on the funds’ or our staff; and potentially requiring the disclosure of sensitive information. Even if not enacted, evaluating and responding to new rulemaking proposals, which are expected to increase, could result in increased costs and require significant attention from management. In addition, we may be materially and adversely affected by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules by these governmental authorities and self-regulatory organizations. New laws, regulations, initiatives or regulatory guidance could make compliance more difficult or more expensive, affect the manner in which we conduct business and divert significant management and operational resources and attention from our business. Moreover, an increase in regulatory investigations and new or enhanced reporting requirements of the trading and other investment activities of alternative investment management funds and firms, including our funds and us, is possible. Such investigations and reporting requirements could impose additional expenses on us, require the attention of senior management, 64 increase the complexity of managing our business, or result in fines or other sanctions if we or any of our funds are deemed to have violated any law or regulations. Other Financial Markets Regulation. Certain requirements imposed by regulators in the United States and abroad, as well by U.S. and non-U.S. legislation and proposed legislation, are designed primarily to ensure the integrity of the financial markets or other objectives and are not principally designed to protect our stockholders. These laws and regulations often serve to limit our activities. U.S. federal bank regulatory agencies have issued leveraged lending guidance covering transactions characterized by a degree of financial leverage, although the status of this guidance is uncertain as the U.S. Government Accountability Office determined, in October 2017, that the guidance is subject to review under the U.S. Congressional Review Act. If applied by the U.S. federal bank regulatory agencies in its current form, such guidance would limit the amount or availability of debt financing available to borrowers and may increase the cost of financing we are able to obtain for our transactions and may cause the returns on our investments to suffer. The SEC has adopted a rule that requires a U.S. broker-dealer, or a natural person who is an associated person of a broker-dealer, to act in the best interest of a retail customer when making a recommendation of any securities transaction or investment strategy involving securities, without placing the financial or other interest of the broker, dealer or natural person who is an associated person of a broker-dealer making the recommendation ahead of the interest of the retail customer (“Regulation Best Interest”). The term “retail customer” is defined as a natural person who uses such a recommendation primarily for personal, family or household purposes, without reference to investor sophistication or net worth. The “best interest” standard would be satisfied through compliance with certain disclosure, duty of care, conflict of interest mitigation and compliance obligations. Regulation Best Interest may impose additional costs to us if we continue to expand our product offerings and investment platforms to retail customers. For discussions of the risks posed by Regulation Best Interest and similar rules on Global Atlantic, see “—Risks Related to Global Atlantic—Regulatory Risks Related to Global Atlantic—Changes to comply with new and potential laws or regulations which impose fiduciary or best interest standards in connection with the sale of Global Atlantic’s products could materially increase Global Atlantic’s costs, decrease its sales and result in a material adverse impact on its business.” The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the “CFTC”), and in certain cases the SEC, has proposed or adopted regulations governing futures and swaps, which may limit our trading activities and our ability to implement effective hedging strategies or increase the costs of compliance. In general, our subsidiaries have not registered as regulated entities with the CFTC, and our funds generally operate pursuant to exemptions from registration, but certain transactions in futures and swaps remain subject to regulatory requirements regardless of our registration status.  Any changes in application or interpretation of the rules applicable to futures and swaps, including rules regarding registration, reporting, margin, capital requirements, and position limits, could result in significant costs for us and our funds. In July 2019 and October 2021, a U.S. Senate bill titled “Stop Wall Street Looting Act” was introduced with the aim to regulate certain business practices by private funds (except venture capital funds) that directly, or through an affiliate, act as a “control person” by acquiring 20% or more of voting securities of a portfolio company. The bill, among other things, proposes to:  require such private funds to be jointly and severally liable for debt and other obligations of a portfolio company; prohibit portfolio companies from paying dividends within 24 months of their acquisition by a private fund; impose 100% tax on any monitoring fee or transaction fee paid by portfolio companies to a private fund; apply an ordinary income tax rate, instead of a capital gains tax rate, on carried interest; and require an annual SEC disclosure of certain information about a private fund and its portfolio companies. Although the bill did not see further action after its introduction in 2019 and re-introduction in 2021, if it were to become law, our business would be materially adversely impacted, and we would be required to change various operational and investment practices, which would be costly, time-consuming and disruptive. In addition, potential changes in legislation or regulation may include  higher corporate tax rate, greater scrutiny on the private equity industry or elimination of carried interest or limitations of the capital gains tax.  See also “—Changes in relevant tax laws, regulations or treaties or an adverse interpretation of these items by tax authorities could adversely impact our effective tax rate and tax liability.” Certain of the funds we manage and certain portfolio companies that engage in originating, lending and/or servicing loans, may consider investments that would subject us to U.S. state and federal regulation, borrower disclosure requirements, limits on fees and interest rates on some loans, state lender licensing requirements and other regulatory requirements in the conduct of their business. If our funds or portfolio companies engage in these activities, they may also be subject to consumer disclosures and substantive requirements on consumer loan terms and other federal regulatory requirements applicable to consumer lending that are administered by the U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. These U.S. state and federal regulatory programs are designed to protect borrowers. There is a potential for increased risk of legislative and regulatory action that could adversely limit and affect our and our portfolio companies’ businesses relating to these activities. U.S. state and federal regulators and other governmental entities have authority to bring administrative enforcement actions or litigation to enforce compliance with applicable lending or consumer protection laws, with remedies that can include fines and monetary penalties, restitution of borrowers, injunctions to conform to law, or limitation or revocation of licenses and other 65 remedies and penalties. In addition, lenders and servicers may be subject to litigation brought by or on behalf of borrowers for violations of laws or unfair or deceptive practices. If we enter into transactions that subject us to these risks, failure to conform to applicable regulatory and legal requirements could be costly and have a detrimental impact on certain of our funds and ultimately on us. In Europe and the Asia-Pacific, there are also laws and regulations that are designed to ensure the integrity of the financial markets or other objectives and are not principally designed to protect our stockholders.  For example, our European subsidiaries are subject to various EU-wide regulations and their respective national implementing legislation, including: • the Second Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (MiFID II), which imposes a range of compliance requirements on our business in areas such as transaction reporting, marketing infrastructure and securities and derivatives trading; • the Market Abuse Regulation (MAR), which requires, among other things, systems and controls regarding inside information, record keeping and other prescribed procedures for market soundings, and conflicts of interest and other relevant disclosure when providing investment recommendations; • the Investment Firms Directive and the Investment Firms Regulation, which imposes a prudential regime for investment firms, as well as various governance and remuneration obligations; • other EU bank regulatory initiatives, including the Second Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive and the European Banking Authority’s guidelines on limits to exposures to shadow banking entities which carry out banking activities outside a regulated framework under EU law (including funds employing leverage on a substantial basis, within the meaning of AIFMD and its implementing rules, and credit funds); • the European Market Infrastructure Regulation (EMIR) and EMIR Refit, which impose various reporting, margining and central clearing requirements on certain derivative transactions; • the Securitization Regulation, which establishes due diligence, risk retention and disclosure regarding certain of our European investments, subsidiaries and CLOs; • the Short Selling Regulation, which limits naked short selling of sovereign bonds and stocks; • the Financial Conglomerates Directive, which establishes a prudential regime for financial conglomerates to address perceived risks associated with large cross-sector businesses, and could increase the costs of investing in insurance companies, investment firms and banks located in the European Union; • the Sustainable Finance Disclosure Regulation and Taxonomy Regulation, which impose sustainability risk assessment requirements and ESG-specific transparency disclosure and reporting requirements; • the Securities Financing Transaction Regulation, which requires securities financing transactions to be reported to trade repositories, places additional reporting requirements on investment managers and introduces prior risk disclosures and written consent before assets are rehypothecated; and • the General Data Protection Regulation, which imposes stringent data protection requirements and provides for significant penalties for noncompliance. As noted above, any changes or potential changes in the regulatory framework applicable to our business may impose additional expenses or capital requirements on us; limit our fundraising for our investment products; result in limitations in the manner in which our business is conducted; have an adverse impact upon our results of operations, financial condition, reputation or prospects; impair employee retention or recruitment; and require substantial attention by senior management. For regulatory risks specifically related to Global Atlantic, see "—Regulatory Risks Related to Global Atlantic". Portfolio Company Legal and Regulatory Environment . We are subject to certain laws, such as certain environmental laws, takeover laws, anti-bribery, trade sanctions, trade control, anti-money laundering and anti-corruption laws, escheat or abandoned property laws, antitrust laws, data privacy and data protection laws and foreign direct investment laws that may impose requirements on us and our portfolio companies as an affiliated group. As a result, we could become jointly and severally liable for all or part of fines imposed on our portfolio companies or be fined directly for violations committed by portfolio companies, and such fines imposed directly on us could be greater than those imposed on the portfolio company. Moreover, portfolio companies may seek to hold us responsible if any fine imposed on them is increased because of their membership in a larger group of affiliated companies. For example, on January 27, 2021, the Court of Justice of the European Union (“CJEU”) affirmed the 2014 decision of the European Commission to fine 11 producers of underground and submarine 66 high voltage power cables a total of 302 million euros for participation in a ten-year market and customer sharing cartel. Fines were also imposed, and confirmed by the CJEU, on parent companies of the producers involved, including Goldman Sachs, the former parent company of one of the cartel members. Similarly, on July 29, 2021, the United Kingdom Competition and Markets Authority announced that it had fined a pharmaceutical company and its former parent companies, two private equity firms, more than 100 million British pounds for abuse of dominance by charging excessive and unfair prices.  In addition, the U.S. Department of Justice has increasingly named private equity sponsors as co-defendants in cases brought under the False Claims Act involving allegedly unlawful conduct by portfolio companies. In certain of those cases, private equity sponsors and portfolio companies have settled claims by agreeing to the payment of substantial monetary penalties. In addition, compliance with certain laws or contracts could also require us to commit significant resources and capital towards information gathering and monitoring thereby increasing our operating costs. For example, because we may indirectly hold voting securities in public utilities subject to regulation by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (“FERC”), including entities that may hold FERC authorization to charge market-based rates for sales of wholesale power and energy, we may be subject to certain FERC regulations, including regulations requiring us and our portfolio companies to collect, report and keep updated substantial information concerning our ownership of such voting interests and voting interests in other related energy companies, corporate officers, and our direct and indirect investment in such utilities and related companies. Such rules may subject our portfolio companies and us to costly and burdensome data collection and reporting requirements. In the United States, certain statutes may subject us or our funds to the liabilities of our portfolio companies. The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act ("CERCLA"), also referred to as the "Superfund," requires cleanup of sites from which there has been a release or threatened release of hazardous substances, and authorizes the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency to take any necessary response action at Superfund sites, including ordering potentially responsible parties liable for the release to pay for such actions. Potentially responsible parties are broadly defined under CERCLA and could include us. In addition, we or certain of our investment funds could potentially be held liable under U.S. Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ("ERISA") for the pension obligations of one or more of our portfolio companies if we or the investment fund were determined to be a "trade or business" under ERISA and deemed part of the same "controlled group" as the portfolio company under such rules, and the pension obligations of any particular portfolio company could be material. On March 28, 2016, a Federal District Court judge in Massachusetts ruled that two private equity funds affiliated with Sun Capital were jointly and severally responsible for unfunded pension liabilities of a Sun Capital portfolio company. While neither fund held more than an 80% ownership interest of the portfolio company, the percentage required under existing regulations to find liability, the court found the funds had formed a partnership-in-fact conducting a trade or business and that as a result each fund was jointly and severally liable for the portfolio company's unfunded pension liabilities. While a federal appellate court only upheld certain aspects of the District Court holding, if the rationale of the District Court decision were to be applied by other courts, we or certain of our investment funds could be held liable under ERISA for certain pension obligations of portfolio companies. In addition, if the rationale of this decision were expanded to apply also for U.S. federal income tax purposes, then certain of our investors could be subject to increased U.S. income tax liability or filing obligations in certain contexts. Similar laws that could be applied with similar results also exist outside of the United States. Moreover, if the general accounts or separate accounts of one or more of Global Atlantic's insurance subsidiaries were to constitute "plan assets" for purposes of ERISA, in the absence of an exemption we could potentially have liability under the prohibited transaction provisions of ERISA and the Code as a result of any investment management activities by KKR with respect to, or transactions by KKR involving, such general account or separate account assets. Similarly, our portfolio companies may be subject to contractual obligations which may impose obligations or restrictions on their affiliates. The interpretation of such contractual provisions will depend on local laws. Given that we do not control all of our portfolio companies and that our portfolio companies generally operate independently of each other, there is a risk that we could contravene one or more of such laws, regulations and contractual arrangements due to limited access and opportunities to monitor compliance. In addition, compliance with these laws or contracts could require us to commit significant resources and capital towards information gathering and monitoring thereby increasing our operating costs. Because of our ownership interest in portfolio companies, attention on our portfolio companies can also result in attention on us. For example, in the past, heightened governmental scrutiny of the healthcare and educational industries has resulted in requests by a U.S. Congressional committee and members of Congress for information from us about our investments in portfolio companies that operate in these industries. Congressional scrutiny and other similar inquiries by governmental bodies may damage our reputation and may also result in potential legislation designed to further regulate portfolio companies or the industries in which they operate, which may materially and adversely affect our portfolio companies' businesses, which in turn could decrease the value of our investments. 67 Similarly, our ownership interest in Global Atlantic exposes us to risks and developments in the insurance industry. As an insurance company, Global Atlantic is subject to extensive regulations in the United States and Bermuda. See "—Risks Related to Global Atlantic–Regulatory Risks Related to Global Atlantic." Complex regulations may limit our ability to raise capital, increase the costs of our capital raising activities and may subject us to penalties . We regularly rely on exemptions in the United States from various requirements of the Securities Act, the Exchange Act, the Investment Company Act, the Commodity Exchange Act and ERISA in conducting our investment management activities. These exemptions are sometimes highly complex and may in certain circumstances depend on compliance by third parties whom we do not control. If for any reason these exemptions were to become unavailable to us, we could become subject to additional restrictive and costly registration requirements, regulatory action or third-party claims and our business could be materially and adversely affected. For example, in raising new funds, we typically rely on private placement exemptions from registration under the Securities Act, including Rule 506 of Regulation D. However, Rule 506 becomes unavailable to issuers (including our funds) if the issuer or any of its "covered persons" (certain officers and directors and also certain third parties including, among others, promoters, placement agents and beneficial owners of 20% of outstanding voting securities of the issuer) has been the subject of a "disqualifying event," which includes a variety of criminal, regulatory and civil matters (so-called "bad actor" disqualification). If our funds or any of the covered persons associated with our funds are subject to a disqualifying event, one or more of our funds could lose the ability to raise capital in a Rule 506 private offering for a significant period of time, which could significantly impair our ability to raise new funds, and, therefore, could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, if certain of our employees or any potential significant investor has been the subject of a disqualifying event, we could be required to reassign or terminate such an employee or we could be required to refuse the investment of such an investor, which could impair our relationships with investors, harm our reputation or make it more difficult to raise new funds. See "—Risks Related to Our Organizational Structure—If we were deemed to be an 'investment company' subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act, applicable restrictions could make it impractical for us to continue our business as contemplated and could have a material adverse effect on our business." We are and will become further subject to additional regulatory and compliance burdens because our product offerings and investment platform include retail investors. For example, funds in our Public Markets business line are registered under the Investment Company Act as investment companies. These funds and their investment advisers, are subject to the Investment Company Act and the rules thereunder, which, among other things, regulate the relationship between a registered investment company and its investment adviser and prohibit or severely restrict principal transactions and joint transactions. In addition, one of our affiliates provides investment advisory services to a business development company (a "BDC"). BDCs are subject to certain restrictions and prohibitions under the Investment Company Act. If the entity fails to meet the requirements for a BDC, it may be regulated as a closed-end investment company under the Investment Company Act and become subject to substantially more regulatory restrictions, which could limit its operating flexibility and in turn result in decreased profitability for our affiliated advisor. As our business expands we may be required to make additional registrations under the Investment Company Act or similar laws, including in jurisdictions outside the United States. As an example, in 2019, we raised an Australian listed investment trust, which is listed on the Australian Securities Exchange and subject to the regulation of the Australian Securities and Investments Commission. Compliance with these and other U.S. and non-U.S. rules will increase our compliance costs and create potential for additional liabilities and penalties, which would divert management's attention from our business and investments. Rule 206(4)-5 under the Investment Advisers Act regulates "pay to play" practices by investment advisers involving campaign contributions and other payments to elected officials or candidates for political office who are able to exert influence on government clients. Among other restrictions, the rule prohibits investment advisers from providing advisory services for compensation to a government client for two years, subject to very limited exceptions, after the investment adviser, its senior executives or its personnel involved in soliciting investments from government entities make contributions to certain candidates and officials in position to influence the hiring of an investment adviser by such government client. Advisers are required to implement compliance policies designed, among other matters, to track contributions by certain of the adviser's employees and engagements of third parties that solicit government entities and to keep certain records in order to enable the SEC to determine compliance with the rule. There has also been similar rule-making on a state-level regarding "pay to play" practices by investment advisers, including in California and New York. FINRA has released its own set of "pay to play" regulations that effectively prohibit the receipt of compensation from state or local government agencies for solicitation and distribution activities within two years of a prohibited contribution by a broker-dealer or one of its covered associates. Any failure on our part to comply with these rules could cause us to lose compensation for our advisory services or expose us to significant penalties and reputational damage. 68 Other laws may also limit our ability to raise capital from non-U.S. persons.  See "—Federal, state and foreign anti-corruption and trade sanctions laws and restrictions on foreign direct investment applicable to us and our portfolio companies create the potential for significant liabilities and penalties, the inability to complete transactions, imposition of significant costs and burdens, and reputational harm." Federal, state and foreign anti-corruption and trade sanctions laws and restrictions on foreign direct investment applicable to us and our portfolio companies create the potential for significant liabilities and penalties, the inability to complete transactions, imposition of significant costs and burdens, and reputational harm . We are subject to a number of laws and regulations governing payments and contributions to political persons or other third parties, including restrictions imposed by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ("FCPA"), as well as trade sanctions and trade control laws administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control ("OFAC"), the U.S. Department of Commerce and the U.S. Department of State. The FCPA is intended to prohibit bribery of foreign governments and their officials and political parties, and requires public companies in the United States to keep books and records that accurately and fairly reflect those companies' transactions. OFAC, the U.S. Department of Commerce and the U.S. Department of State administer and enforce various trade control laws and regulations, including economic and trade sanctions based on U.S. foreign policy and national security goals against targeted foreign states, organizations and individuals. These laws and regulations implicate a number of aspects of our business, including servicing existing fund investors, finding new fund investors, and sourcing new investments, as well as activities by the portfolio companies in our investment portfolio or other controlled investments. Some of these regulations provide that penalties can be imposed on us for the conduct of a portfolio company, even if we have not ourselves violated any regulation. The Iran Threat Reduction and Syrian Human Rights Act of 2012 ("ITRA") expanded the scope of U.S. sanctions against Iran and requires public reporting companies to disclose in their annual or quarterly reports certain dealings or transactions the company or its affiliates "knowingly" engaged in during the previous reporting period involving Iran or other individuals and entities targeted by certain OFAC sanctions. In some cases, ITRA requires companies to disclose these types of dealings or transactions even if they are permissible under U.S. law or are conducted outside of the United States by a foreign affiliate. If any such activities are disclosed in a periodic report, we are required to separately file, concurrently with such report, a notice of such disclosure. The SEC is required to post this notice on its website and send the report to the U.S. President and certain U.S. Congressional committees. The U.S. President thereafter is required to initiate an investigation and, within 180 days of initiating such an investigation, to determine whether sanctions should be imposed. Disclosure of such activity, even if such activity is not subject to sanctions under applicable law, and any sanctions actually imposed on us or our affiliates as a result of these activities, could harm our reputation and have a negative impact on our business. The U.S. government has also implemented and expanded a number of economic sanctions programs and export controls that target Chinese entities and nationals on national security grounds, and has imposed restrictions on acquiring and retaining interests in the securities of certain Chinese entities. These initiatives target, for example, China's response to political demonstrations in Hong Kong, China’s conduct concerning the treatment of Uighurs and other ethnic minorities in its Xinjiang province, and certain Chinese entities designated by the U.S. government as Communist Chinese military companies, among other things. In January 2021, China's Ministry of Commerce issued The Rules on Counteracting Unjustified Extraterritorial Application of Foreign Legislation and Other Measures to counteract the impact of foreign sanctions on Chinese persons by enabling Chinese citizens, legal persons, and other organizations to seek remedies as a result of prohibitions or restrictions on normal economic, trade, and related activities with persons of other countries. Furthermore, in June 2021, China enacted the Anti-Foreign Sanctions Law which authorizes the imposition of countermeasures in response to sanctions imposed on Chinese individuals or entities by foreign governments, such that a company that complies with U.S. sanctions against a Chinese entity may then face penalties in China. Similar laws in non-U.S. jurisdictions, such as EU sanctions and blocking statutes, the U.K. Bribery Act, as well as other applicable anti-bribery, anti-corruption, anti-money laundering, or sanction or other export control, or related laws in the United States and abroad, may also impose stricter or more onerous requirements than the FCPA, OFAC, the U.S. Department of Commerce, the U.S. Department of State or U.S. Department of Treasury, and implementing them may disrupt our business or cause us to incur significantly more costs to comply with those laws. Different laws may also contain conflicting provisions, making compliance with all laws more difficult. For example, the European Union has adopted measures, such as Council Regulation (EC) No. 2271/96, the could restrict certain persons and entities subject to EU jurisdiction from complying with extra-territorial sanctions imposed by other jurisdictions, such as the U.S. If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations, we could be exposed to claims for damages, civil or criminal financial penalties, reputational harm, incarceration of our employees, restrictions on our operations and other liabilities, which could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we may be subject to successor liability for FCPA violations or other acts of bribery, or violations of applicable sanctions, other export control or foreign direct investment laws committed by companies in which we or our funds invest or which we or our funds acquire. 69 In addition, the U.S. and many non-U.S. countries that have laws designed to protect national security or to restrict foreign direct investment.  For example, under the U.S. Foreign Investment Risk Review Modernization Act ("FIRRMA"), the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States ("CFIUS") has the authority to review, block or impose conditions on investments by non-U.S. persons in U.S. companies or real assets deemed critical or sensitive to the United States.  Many non-U.S. jurisdictions have similar laws, for example:  the European Union has adopted an E.U.-wide mechanism to screen foreign investment on national security grounds; certain transactions in Australia are subject to review by the Foreign Investment Review Board; transactions in the United Kingdom must comply with the National Security and Investment Act 2021; and transactions in China must comply with the Measures for the Security Review of Foreign Investment. Beginning in February 2022, the United States and other countries began imposing meaningful sanctions targeting Russia as a result of actions taken by Russia in Ukraine.  We and our portfolio companies will be required to comply with these and potentially additional sanctions imposed by the United States and by other countries, for which the full costs, burdens, and limitations on our and our portfolio companies' businesses and prospects are currently unknown and may become significant. Under these laws, governments have the authority to impose a variety of actions, including requirements for the advance screening or notification of certain transactions, blocking or imposing conditions on certain transactions, limiting the size of foreign equity investments or control by foreign investors, and restricting the employment of foreigners as key personnel. These actions could limit our ability to find suitable investments, cause delays in consummating transactions, result in the abandonment of transactions, and impose burdensome operational requirements on our portfolio companies.  These laws could also negatively impact our fundraising and syndication activities by causing us to exclude or limit certain investors in our funds or co-investors for our transactions. Moreover, these laws may make it difficult for us to identify suitable buyers for our investments that we want to exit and could constrain the universe of exit opportunities generally. Complying with these laws imposes potentially significant costs and complex additional burdens, and any failure by us or our portfolio companies to comply with them could expose us significant penalties, sanctions, loss of future investment opportunities, additional regulatory scrutiny, and reputational harm. We face significant liabilities and damage to our professional reputation as a result of litigation allegations and negative publicity. The activities of our businesses, including the investment decisions we make and the activities of our employees in connection with our funds, portfolio companies, insurance subsidiaries, publicly listed vehicles, or other investment vehicles like SPACs, may subject us and them to the risk of litigation by third parties, including fund investors dissatisfied with the performance or management of our funds, holders of our or our portfolio companies' debt or equity, Global Atlantic's policyholders, public stockholders, and investors in our SPAC and a variety of other potential litigants. See Note 24 "Commitments and Contingencies—Litigation" in our financial statements. For example, we, our funds and certain of our employees are each exposed to the risks of litigation relating to investment activities of our funds, insurance subsidiaries, publicly listed vehicles, and SPAC and actions taken by the officers and directors (some of whom may be KKR employees) of portfolio companies, such as lawsuits by other shareholders of our public portfolio companies or holders of debt instruments of companies in which we or our funds have significant investments. We are also exposed to risks of litigation, investigation or negative publicity in the event of any transactions that are alleged not to have been properly considered and approved under applicable law. Although investors in our funds do not have legal remedies against us, the general partners of our funds, our funds, our employees or our affiliates solely based on their dissatisfaction with the investment performance of those funds, such investor may have remedies against us, the general partners of our funds, our funds, our employees or our affiliates to the extent any losses result from fraud, negligence, willful misconduct or other similar misconduct. While the general partners and investment advisers to our investment funds, including their directors, officers, employees and affiliates, are generally indemnified to the fullest extent permitted by law with respect to their conduct in connection with the management of the business and affairs of our investment funds, such indemnity generally does not extend to actions determined to have involved fraud, gross negligence, willful misconduct or other similar misconduct. If any civil or criminal lawsuits were brought against us and resulted in a finding of substantial legal liability or culpability, the lawsuit could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition or cause significant reputational harm to us, which could seriously impact our business. Furthermore, the current rise of populist political movements has generated and may continue to generate a growing negative public sentiment toward globalization, free trade, capitalism and financial institutions, which could lead to heightened scrutiny and criticisms of our business and our investments. In addition, public sentiment could at any time focus on us, our industry and companies in which our funds are invested, which could result in governmental action or other adverse consequences. See “—Extensive regulation of our businesses affects our activities and creates the potential for significant liabilities and penalties. The possibility of increased regulatory focus or legislative or regulatory changes could materially and adversely affect our business.” The risk of reputational harm is elevated by the prevalence of Internet and social media usage and the increased public focus on behaviors and externalities of business activities, including those affecting stakeholder 70 interests and ESG considerations. We depend to a large extent on our business relationships and our reputation for integrity and high-caliber professional services to attract and retain fund investors and qualified professionals and to pursue investment opportunities for our funds. As a result, allegations of improper conduct by private litigants or regulators, whether the ultimate outcome is favorable or unfavorable to us, as well as negative publicity and press speculation about us, our investment activities or the private equity industry in general, whether or not valid, may harm our reputation, which may be more damaging to our business than to other types of businesses. With a workforce composed of many highly-paid professionals, we face the risk of litigation relating to claims for compensation or other damages, which may, individually or in the aggregate, be significant in amount. The cost of settling any such claims could negatively impact our business, results of operations and financial condition. Certain types of investment vehicles may subject us to additional risk of litigation and regulatory scrutiny. We have formed and may continue to form investment vehicles seeking investment from retail investors, which may subject us to additional risk of litigation and regulatory scrutiny.  See "—Extensive regulation of our businesses affects our activities and creates the potential for significant liabilities and penalties. The possibility of increased regulatory focus or legislative or regulatory changes could materially and adversely affect our business." We have and expect to continue to distribute products through new channels, including through unaffiliated firms, and we may not be able to effectively monitor or control the manner of their distribution, which could result in litigation against us, including with respect to, among other things, claims that products distributed through such channels are distributed to customers for whom they are unsuitable or distributed in any other inappropriate manner. The distribution of products through new channels whether directly or through market intermediaries, including in the retail channel, could expose us to additional regulatory risk in the form of allegations of improper conduct and/or actions by state and federal regulators against us with respect to, among other things, product suitability, conflicts of interest and the adequacy of disclosure to customers to whom our products are distributed through those channels. Following the 2020 presidential and congressional elections in the United States, there is an increased risk of legislative and regulatory action that could adversely limit and affect our efforts to seek, or to manage vehicles that have investments from, retail investors. In addition, our investment adviser subsidiaries or affiliates externally manage or advise a number of publicly listed vehicles, which are publicly traded on a stock exchange or are otherwise made available for investment by public investors, including KKR Real Estate Finance Trust (a REIT listed on the NYSE), KKR Income Opportunities Fund (a closed-end management investment company listed on the NYSE), KKR Credit Opportunities Portfolio (a closed-end management investment company operated as an interval fund), KKR Credit Income Fund (an Australian listed investment trust), FS KKR Capital Corp. (a BDC listed on the NYSE), and Crescent Energy Company (an energy company listed on the NYSE). We plan to enter into new investment management agreements with other publicly listed vehicles in the future. Publicly listed vehicles allow us to invest potentially more capital and potentially provide more stable fee streams, while providing liquidity to such vehicle’s equity investors. However, these vehicles are subject to the heightened regulatory requirements applicable to public companies or registered funds, including compliance with the laws and regulations of the SEC, the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and the national securities exchanges on which their securities are listed, among others. These requirements will place increased demands on senior employees, require administrative, operational and accounting resources, and incur significant expenses. Failure to comply with these requirements could result in civil lawsuits, regulatory penalties, enforcement actions, or potentially lead to suspension of trading, de-listing from an exchange, de-registration or liquidation. Furthermore, if the shareholders of these vehicles were to be dissatisfied with the investment performance or disagree with investment strategies employed by us, they may seek to cause the board of directors of the relevant vehicle to terminate the investment management agreement with us or change the terms of such agreement in a manner that is less favorable to us. As publicly listed vehicles, they also face significant additional litigation risks, including class actions and other shareholder lawsuits, which would distract our employees, including our investment professionals. Their board of directors and their stockholders could also seek recourse against KKR itself for any alleged mismanagement by our investment adviser subsidiaries or affiliates. We are also a controlling stockholder and investment advisor to Global Atlantic, which is involved in litigation and regulatory actions in the ordinary course of business, and Global Atlantic’s U.S. insurance subsidiaries are subject to comprehensive regulation and supervision under U.S. federal and state laws. Therefore, following KKR’s acquisition of Global Atlantic, we are subject to additional risks of litigation and regulatory scrutiny that we may not have experienced before. Misconduct of our employees, consultants or sub-contractors or by our portfolio companies could harm us by impairing our ability to attract and retain clients and subjecting us to significant legal liability and reputational harm. There is a risk that our employees, consultants or sub-contractors could engage in misconduct that adversely affects our business. We are subject to a number of obligations and standards arising from our business and our authority over the assets we manage. The violation of these obligations and standards by any of our employees, consultants or sub-contractors would adversely affect our clients and us. We may also be adversely affected if there is misconduct by senior management of portfolio 71 companies in which we invest, even though we may be unable to control or mitigate such misconduct. Such misconduct may also negatively affect the valuation of the investments in such portfolio companies. Our current and former employees, consultants or sub-contractors and those of our portfolio companies may also become subject to allegations of sexual harassment, racial and gender discrimination or other similar misconduct, which, regardless of the ultimate outcome, may result in adverse publicity that could significantly harm our and such portfolio company's brand and reputation. Furthermore, our business often requires that we deal with confidential matters of great significance to companies in which we may invest. If our employees, consultants or sub-contractors were improperly to use or disclose confidential information, we could suffer serious harm to our reputation, financial position and current and future business relationships, as well as face potentially significant litigation or investigation. It is not always possible to detect or deter such misconduct, and the precautions we take may not be effective in all cases. If any of our employees, consultants or sub-contractors or the employees of portfolio companies were to engage in misconduct or were to be accused of such misconduct, our business and our reputation could be materially and adversely affected. Our capital markets activities expose us to risks, and our risk management strategy may not be effective or sufficient. Through our broker-dealer subsidiaries and their related entities, we provide a broad range of capital markets services that include acting as an advisor or as an agent, principal, underwriter, syndicator, arranger or other form of intermediary in connection with securities transactions, debt or equity syndications, loan transactions, derivative transactions and other types of financings and financial arrangements. We rely upon our counterparties to consummate the transactions that they indicate or commit to enter into with us.  However, we may incur significant losses in connection with our capital markets activities, including to the extent that, for any reason, (i) our counterparties fail to acquire or pay for the securities, debt, equity or loans that we expected to sell, place or syndicate to them, or (ii) we are unable to receive our anticipated payments for any other transaction or are otherwise unable to dispose of any financial exposure that we incur at the prices that we anticipated or at all.  The incurrence of any such losses may cause a materially adverse impact to our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. We also may be subject to potential underwriter liability or regulatory consequences for material misstatements or omissions in prospectuses or other offering documents relating to transactions in which we are involved.  We conduct capital markets activities in connection with  transactions in which our investment funds or insurance companies may participate as a purchaser or a seller of securities, which could constitute a conflict of interest or subject us to regulatory scrutiny, liabilities or reputational harm. See "—Extensive regulation of our businesses affects our activities and creates the potential for significant liabilities and penalties. The possibility of increased regulatory focus or legislative or regulatory changes could materially and adversely affect our business." We employ derivative financial instruments and other types of strategies to hedge, manage or otherwise reduce certain risks that arise in connection our capital markets activities, such as interest rate risks, foreign currency risks and general market risks.  The use of derivative financial instruments and these other risk management strategies may not be properly designed to hedge, manage or other reduce the risks as intended, may not be properly implemented as designed, or otherwise not effectively offset the risks we have identified.  We may not have identified, or may not even be able to identify, all the material risks relevant for our capital markets activities, and we also may choose not to hedge, in whole or in part, any of the risks that have been identified.  If our capital markets’ risk management strategy is ineffective or inefficient, we may experience a materially adverse impact to our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity.  One part of our capital markets risk management strategy is to enter into arrangements with third parties that are designed to reduce our risk when underwriting certain debt transactions.  As of December 31, 2021, we have entered into such arrangements representing a total notional amount of $4.0 billion.  If these counterparties fail or refuse to meet their obligations under these underwriting arrangements, then we may experience a materially adverse impact to our results of operations, financial condition or liquidity. If such failure or refusal were to occur, or if these counterparties fail to renew their arrangements and we are unable to find suitable replacements, then our ability to continue to conduct large capital markets transactions in the future may be impaired. We are subject to risks in using third-party service providers, including prime brokers, custodians, administrators and other agents. Certain of our investment funds, finance vehicles and our principal trading activities depend on the services of third-party service providers, including prime brokers, custodians, escrow agents, placement agents, administrators and other agents, to carry out administrative or other services, including valuations, securities transactions, tax preparation, insurance policy administration and government filings. We are subject to risks of errors and mistakes made by these third parties, which may be attributed to us and subject us (including our insurance subsidiaries) or our fund investors to reputational damage, penalties or losses. We may be unsuccessful in seeking reimbursement or indemnification from these third-party service providers. Furthermore, in the event of the insolvency of a prime broker and/or custodian, our funds may not be able to recover equivalent assets in full as they will rank among the prime broker's and custodian's unsecured creditors in relation to assets that 72 the prime broker or custodian borrows, lends or otherwise uses. In addition, our and our funds' cash held with a prime broker or custodian may not be segregated from the prime broker's or custodian's own cash, and our funds therefore may rank as unsecured creditors in relation to that cash. The inability to recover assets from the prime broker or custodian could have a material adverse impact on the performance of our funds and our business, results of operations and financial condition. Counterparties have generally reacted to recent market volatility by tightening their underwriting standards and increasing their margin requirements for all categories of financing, which has the result of decreasing the overall amount of leverage available and increasing the costs of borrowing.  Many of our funds have credit lines, and if a lender under one or more of these credit lines were to become insolvent, we may have difficulty replacing the credit line and one or more of our funds may face liquidity problems. Default risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult to detect, foresee or evaluate. In addition, concerns about, or a default by, one large market participant could lead to significant liquidity problems for other market participants, which may in turn expose us to significant losses. We may not accurately anticipate the impact of market stress or counterparty financial condition, and as a result, we may not have taken sufficient action to reduce these risks effectively, which, if left unmitigated, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. For discussions of the risks related to Global Atlantic's use third-party service providers, see "—Risks Related to Global Atlantic—Business Risks Related to Global Atlantic—Global Atlantic depends on the performance of its third-party service providers, including distribution partners and agents, and their failure to perform in a satisfactory manner could negatively affect Global Atlantic's business." Risks Related to the Assets We Manage As an investment manager, we sponsor and manage funds that make investments worldwide on behalf of third-party investors and, in connection with those activities, are required to deploy our own capital in those investments. The investments of these funds are subject to many risks and uncertainties which, to the extent they are material, are discussed below. In addition, we have investments on our balance sheet, which we manage for our own behalf. These risks, as they apply to our balance sheet investments, may have a greater impact on our results of operations and financial conditions as we directly bear the full risk of our balance sheet investments. As a result, the gains and losses on such assets are reflected in our net income and the risks set forth below relating to the assets that we manage will directly affect our operating performance. The historical returns attributable to our funds, including those presented in this report, should not be considered as indicative of the future results of our funds, our insurance subsidiaries or our balance sheet investments, of our future results or the performance of our common stock. We have presented in this report certain information relating to our investment returns, such as net and gross IRRs, multiples of invested capital and realized and unrealized investment values for funds that we have sponsored and managed. The historical and potential future returns of the funds that we manage are not directly linked to returns on KKR Group Partnership Units. Moreover, historical returns of our funds may not be indicative of the future results that you should expect from our funds, our insurance subsidiaries or our balance sheet investments. In particular, the future results may differ significantly from their historical results for the following reasons, among others: • the rates of returns of our funds reflect unrealized gains as of the applicable valuation date that may never be realized, which may adversely affect the ultimate value realized from those funds' investments; • certain historical returns that we present in this report are based on the performance of our historical private equity funds, the results of which have already been realized and are significantly less relevant for raising capital for our future funds; • the future performance of our funds will be affected by macroeconomic and other factors, including negative factors arising from disruptions in the global financial markets or tensions in global trade, which may not have been prevalent in the periods relevant to the historical return data included in this report; • in some historical periods, the rates of return of some of our funds have been positively influenced by a number of investments that experienced a substantial decrease in the average holding period of such investments and rapid and substantial increases in value following the dates on which those investments were made; those trends and rates of return may not be repeated in the future as the actual or expected length of holding periods related to investments is likely longer than such historical periods; 73 • our newly established funds may generate lower returns during the period that they take to deploy their capital, which may result in little or no carried interests due to performance hurdles; • our funds' returns have benefited from investment opportunities and general market conditions in certain historical periods that may not repeat themselves, and there can be no assurance that our current or future funds will be able to avail themselves of comparable investment opportunities or market conditions; and • we may create new funds and investment products in the future that reflect a different asset mix in terms of allocations among funds, investment strategies, geographic and industry exposure, vintage year and economic terms. In addition, our historical rates of return reflect our historical cost structure, which has varied and may vary further in the future. Certain of our newer funds, for example, have lower fee structures and also have performance hurdles. Future returns will also be affected by the risks described elsewhere in this report, including risks of the industry sectors and businesses in which a particular fund invests and changes in laws. See "—Risks Related to Our Business—Difficult market and economic conditions can adversely affect our business in many ways, including by reducing the value or performance of the investments that we manage or by reducing the ability of our funds to raise or deploy capital, each of which could negatively impact our net income and cash flow and adversely affect our financial prospects and condition." Valuation methodologies for certain assets in our funds, in our insurance subsidiaries and on our balance sheet can be subjective and the fair value of assets established pursuant to such methodologies may never be realized, which could result in significant losses for our funds and us. There are no readily ascertainable market prices for a substantial majority of illiquid investments of our investment funds, our finance vehicles, insurance subsidiaries or other assets on our balance sheet. When determining fair values of investments, we use the last reported market price as of the statement of financial condition date for investments that have readily observable market prices. When an investment does not have a readily available market price, the fair value of the investment represents the value, as determined by us in good faith, at which the investment could be sold in an orderly disposition over a reasonable period of time between willing parties other than in a forced or liquidation sale. There is no single standard for determining fair value in good faith and in many cases fair value is best expressed as a range of fair values from which a single estimate may be derived. When making fair value determinations for our private equity investments, we typically use a market multiples approach that considers a specified financial measure (such as EBITDA) and/or a discounted cash flow analysis. Real asset investments in infrastructure, energy and real estate are valued using one or more of the discounted cash flow analysis, market comparables analysis and direct income capitalization, which in each case incorporates significant assumptions and judgments, and in certain cases, utilizes the services of independent valuation firms. Credit investments are valued using values obtained from dealers or market makers, and where these values are not available, credit investments are valued by us based on ranges of valuations determined by an independent valuation firm. For a majority of Global Atlantic's available-for-sale fixed maturity securities and other investments, the determination of fair value is based on valuation methodologies, securities Global Atlantic deems to be comparable and assumptions deemed appropriate based on market conditions specific to the security. Each of these methodologies requires estimates of key inputs and significant assumptions and judgments. We also consider a range of additional factors that we deem relevant, including the applicability of a control premium or illiquidity discount, the presence of significant unconsolidated assets and liabilities, any favorable or unfavorable tax attributes, the method of likely exit, financial projections, estimates of assumed growth rates, terminal values, discount rates including risk free rates, capital structure, risk premiums, commodity prices and other factors, and determining these factors may involve a significant degree of our management's judgment and the judgment of management of our portfolio companies. Because valuations, and in particular valuations of investments for which market quotations are not readily available, are inherently uncertain, may fluctuate over short periods of time and may be based on estimates, determinations of fair value may differ materially from the values that would have resulted if a ready market had existed. Even if market quotations are available for our investments, such quotations may not reflect the value that we would actually be able to realize because of various factors, including possible illiquidity associated with a large ownership position, subsequent illiquidity in the market for a company's securities, future market price volatility or the potential for a future loss in market value based on poor industry conditions or the market's view of overall company and management performance. Our stockholders' equity could be adversely affected if the values of investments that we record is materially higher than the values that are ultimately realized upon the disposal of the investments and changes in values attributed to investments from quarter to quarter may result in volatility in our AUM and such changes could materially affect the results of operations that we report from period to period. There can be no assurance that the investment values that we record from time to time will ultimately be realized and that we will be able to realize the investment values that are presented in this report. 74 Because there is significant uncertainty in the valuation of, or in the stability of the value of, illiquid investments, the fair values of investments reflected in an investment fund's or vehicle's net asset value ("NAV") do not necessarily reflect the prices that would actually be obtained by us on behalf of the fund or finance vehicle when such investments are realized. For example, there may be liabilities such as unknown or uncertain tax exposures with respect to investments, especially those outside the United States, which may not be fully reflected in valuations. Realizations at values significantly lower than the values at which investments have been reflected in prior fund NAVs would result in losses for the applicable fund and the loss of potential carried interest and other fees. Also, if realizations of our investments produce values materially different than the carrying values reflected in prior fund NAVs, fund investors may lose confidence in us, which could in turn result in difficulty in raising capital for future funds. In addition, because we value our entire portfolio only on a quarterly basis, subsequent events that may have a material impact on those valuations may not be reflected until the next quarterly valuation date. Our investments are impacted by various economic conditions and events outside of our control that are difficult to quantify or predict, which may have a significant impact on the valuation of our investments and, therefore, on the investment income we realize and our results of operations and financial condition. Our investments are impacted by various economic conditions and events outside of our control that are difficult to quantify or predict, which may have a significant impact on the valuation of our investments and, therefore, on the investment income we realize and our results of operations and financial condition. For example: • Global equity markets, which have been and are expected to continue to be volatile, significantly impact the valuation of our portfolio companies and, therefore, the investment income that we recognize. If equity valuations decline (due to multiple contraction or otherwise), then our performance may be materially adversely impacted.  For our investments that are publicly listed and thus have readily observable market prices, global equity markets have a direct impact on valuation. For other investments, these markets have an indirect impact on valuation as we typically utilize market multiples (i.e., stock price of comparable companies divided by earnings or cash flow) as a critical input to ascertain fair value of our investments that do not have readily observable market prices. In addition, the valuation for any particular period may not be realized at the time of disposition. For example, because our private equity funds often hold very large amounts of the securities of their portfolio companies, the disposition of these securities often takes place over a long period of time, which can further expose us to volatility risk. In addition, the receptivity of equity markets to initial public offerings, as well as subsequent secondary equity offerings by companies already public, impacts our ability to realize investment gains.  Unfavorable market conditions, market volatility and other factors may also adversely impact our strategic partnerships with third-party hedge fund managers by influencing the level or pace of subscriptions or redemptions from the funds managed by our partners. • Changes in credit markets can also impact valuations and may have offsetting results depending on the valuation methodology used. For example, we typically use a discounted cash flow analysis as one of the methodologies to ascertain the fair value of our investments that do not have readily observable market prices. If applicable interest rates rise, then the assumed cost of capital for those portfolio companies would be expected to increase under the discounted cash flow analysis, and this effect would negatively impact their valuations if not offset by other factors. Rising U.S. interest rates may also negatively impact certain foreign currencies that depend on foreign capital flows. Conversely, a fall in interest rates can positively impact valuations of certain portfolio companies if not offset by other factors. These impacts could be substantial depending upon the magnitude of the change in interest rates. In certain cases, the valuations obtained from the discounted cash flow analysis and the other primary methodology we use, the market multiples approach, may yield different and offsetting results. For example, the positive impact of falling interest rates on discounted cash flow valuations may offset the negative impact of the market multiples valuation approach and may result in less of a decline in value than for those investments that had a readily observable market price. Any adverse change to the cost of borrowing resulting from the LIBOR transition could also negatively impact the valuations of our investments and could result in us receiving lower interest income for our credit funds. Finally, low interest rates related to monetary stimulus and economic stagnation may also negatively impact expected returns on all investments, as the demand for relatively higher return assets increases and supply decreases. • Foreign exchange rates can materially impact the valuations of our investments that are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. For example, U.S. dollar appreciation relative to other currencies is likely to cause a decrease in the dollar value of non-U.S. investments to the extent unhedged. 75 • Conditions in commodity markets impact the performance of our portfolio companies and other investments in a variety of ways, including through the direct or indirect impact on the cost of the inputs used in their operations as well as the pricing and profitability of the products or services that they sell. The price of commodities has historically been subject to substantial volatility, which among other things, could be driven by economic, monetary, political or weather related factors. If the operating partners for certain of our real asset funds or our portfolio companies are unable to raise prices to offset increases in the cost of raw materials or other inputs, or if consumers defer purchases of or seek substitutes for the products of our funds or such portfolio companies, our funds or such portfolio companies could experience lower operating income which may in turn reduce the valuation of such funds' investments or those portfolio companies. The value of energy investments generally increase or decrease with the increase or decrease, respectively, of energy commodity prices and in particular with long-term forecasts for such energy commodity prices. Given our investments in Crescent Energy and other oil and gas companies, assets, a portion of the investment income we realize is sensitive to oil and gas prices. The volatility of commodity prices also makes it difficult to predict commodity price movements. Apart from our energy investments, a number of our other investments may be dependent to varying degrees on the energy sector through, for example, the provision of equipment and services used in energy exploration and production. These companies may benefit from an increase or suffer from a decline in commodity prices. • Political developments, natural disasters, war or threat of war, terrorist attacks, epidemic, pandemic or other public health crises and other events outside of our control can, and periodically do, materially and adversely impact our portfolio companies and other investments around the world. Our investment strategies target opportunities globally, across North America, Europe, Asia-Pacific and the Middle East. Political instability and extremism, civil unrest and anti-government protests in any region where we have material business operations or investments can, and periodically does, have an adverse impact on our and our portfolio companies’ business results, reputation or license to operate. In addition, occurrence of war or hostilities involving a country in which we have investments or where our portfolio companies operate could adversely affect the operations and valuations of our portfolio companies and investments in such country. Natural disasters, such as extreme weather events, climate change, earthquakes, tsunamis or floods, can also have an adverse impact on certain of our portfolio companies and investments, especially our real asset investments and portfolio companies that rely on physical factories, plants or stores located in the affected areas. As the effects of climate change increase, we expect the frequency and impact of weather and climate related events and conditions to increase as well. For example, unseasonal or violent weather events can have a material impact to businesses or properties that focus on tourism or recreational travel. Public health crises, pandemics and epidemics, such as those caused by new strains of viruses such as H5N1 (avian flu), severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) and the SARS-CoV-2 virus (COVID-19), can be expected to occur from time to time, which could directly and indirectly impact us and our portfolio companies in material respects by threatening our and their employees' well-being and morale, interrupting business activities, supply chains and transactional activities, disrupting travel, and negatively impacting the economies of the affected countries or regions. Changes in these factors can have a significant effect on the results of the valuation methodologies used to value our portfolio, and our reported fair values for these assets could vary materially if these factors from prior quarters were to change significantly. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Business Environment." Global and regional economic conditions have a substantial impact on the value of investments. See "—Risks Related to Our Business—Difficult market and economic conditions can adversely affect our business in many ways, including by reducing the value or performance of the investments that we manage or by reducing the ability of our funds to raise or deploy capital, each of which could negatively impact our net income and cash flow and adversely affect our financial prospects and condition" and "—Risks Related to Our Business–COVID-19 continues to impact the United States and other countries throughout the world, and it has caused and may further cause disruptions to our business and adversely affect our financial results." Dependence on significant leverage in investments by our funds and our balance sheet assets could adversely affect our ability to achieve attractive rates of return on those investments. Because many of our funds' investments and our balance sheet investments often rely heavily on the use of leverage, our ability to achieve attractive rates of return will depend on our continued ability to access sufficient sources of indebtedness at attractive rates. For example, our credit funds use varying degrees of leverage when making investments. Similarly, in many private equity investments, indebtedness may constitute more than 70% of a portfolio company's total debt and equity capitalization, including debt that may be incurred in connection with the investment, and a portfolio company's indebtedness may also increase in recapitalization transactions subsequent to the company's acquisition. The absence of available sources of 76 sufficient debt financing for extended periods of time could therefore materially and adversely affect our funds and our portfolio companies. U.S. federal bank regulatory agencies and the European Central Bank have issued leveraged lending guidance covering transactions characterized by a degree of financial leverage. Such guidance may limit the amount or availability of debt financing and may increase the cost of financing we are able to obtain for our transactions and may cause the returns on our investments to suffer. See "—Risks Related to Our Business—Extensive regulation of our businesses affects our activities and creates the potential for significant liabilities and penalties. The possibility of increased regulatory focus or legislative or regulatory changes could materially and adversely affect our business." An increase in either the general levels of interest rates or in the risk spread demanded by sources of indebtedness would make it more expensive to finance those investments. In addition, increases in interest rates could decrease the value of fixed-rate debt investments that our balance sheet assets, finance vehicles or our funds make. Increases in interest rates could also make it more difficult to locate and consummate private equity and other investments because other potential buyers, including operating companies acting as strategic buyers, may be able to bid for an asset at a higher price due to a lower overall cost of capital or their ability to benefit from a higher amount of cost savings following the acquisition of the asset. In addition, a portion of the indebtedness used to finance private equity investments often includes high-yield debt securities issued in the capital markets. Capital markets are volatile, and there may be times when we might not be able to access those markets at attractive rates, or at all, when completing an investment. Investments in highly leveraged entities are also inherently more sensitive to declines in revenues, increases in expenses and interest rates and adverse economic, market and industry developments. The incurrence of a significant amount of indebtedness by an entity could, among other things: • subject the entity to a number of restrictive covenants, terms and conditions, any violation of which would be viewed by creditors as an event of default and could materially impact our ability to realize value from our investment; • allow even moderate reductions in operating cash flow to render it unable to service its indebtedness; • give rise to an obligation to make mandatory prepayments of debt using excess cash flow, which might limit the entity's ability to respond to changing industry conditions to the extent additional cash is needed for the response, to make unplanned but necessary capital expenditures or to take advantage of growth opportunities; • limit the entity's ability to adjust to changing market conditions, thereby placing it at a competitive disadvantage compared to its competitors who have relatively less debt; • limit the entity's ability to engage in strategic acquisitions that might be necessary to generate attractive returns or further growth; and • limit the entity's ability to obtain additional financing or increase the cost of obtaining such financing, including for capital expenditures, working capital or other general corporate purposes. A leveraged company's income and equity also tend to increase or decrease at a greater rate than would otherwise be the case if money had not been borrowed. As a result, the risk of loss associated with a leveraged company is generally greater than for comparable companies with comparatively less debt. For example, leveraged companies could default on their debt obligations due to a decrease in revenues and cash flow precipitated by an economic downturn or by poor relative performance at such a company. Similarly, the leveraged nature of some of our investments in real assets increases the risk that a decline in the fair value of the underlying real asset will result in their abandonment or foreclosure. For example, if the property-level debt on a particular investment has reached its maturity and the underlying asset value has declined below its debt-level, we may, in absence of cooperation by the lender in regards to a partial debt-write-off, be forced to put the investment into liquidation. In addition, the 2017 Tax Act partially limits the tax deductibility of interest, which could have a material adverse effect on our funds' investment activities and on operations of a leveraged company. When our existing portfolio investments reach the point when debt incurred to finance those investments matures in significant amounts and must be either repaid or refinanced, those investments may materially suffer if they have generated insufficient cash flow to repay maturing debt and there is insufficient capacity and availability in the financing markets to permit them to refinance maturing debt on satisfactory terms, or at all. If the financing for such purposes were to be unavailable or uneconomic when significant amounts of the debt incurred to finance our existing portfolio investments start to come due, these investments could be materially and adversely affected. In the event of default or potential default under applicable financing arrangements, one or more of our portfolio companies may go bankrupt, which could give rise to substantial investment losses, adverse claims or litigation against us or our employees and damage to our reputation. 77 Among the sectors particularly challenged by downturns in the global credit markets are the CLO and leveraged finance markets. We have significant exposure to these markets through our CLO vehicles. As of December 31, 2021, we indirectly hold below investment grade corporate loans and securities with a $22.1 billion estimated fair market value through our CLO vehicles. Each of these vehicles is a special purpose company that issued to us and other investors notes secured by a pool of collateral consisting primarily of corporate leveraged loans. In most cases, our CLO holdings are deeply subordinated, representing the CLO vehicle's substantial leverage, which increases both the opportunity for higher returns as well as the magnitude of losses when compared to holders or investors that rank more senior to us in right of payment. These loans and bonds also generally involve a higher degree of risk than investment grade rated debt, including the risks described in the paragraphs above. Our CLO vehicles have historically experienced an increase in downgrades, depreciations in market value and defaults in respect of leveraged loans in their collateral during downturns in credit markets. The CLOs' portfolio profile tests set limits on the amount of discounted obligations a CLO can hold. During any time that a CLO issuer exceeds such a limit, the ability of the CLO's manager to sell assets and reinvest available principal proceeds into substitute assets is restricted. In such circumstances, CLOs may fail certain over-collateralization tests, which would cause diversions of cash flows away from us as holders of the more junior CLO, which may impact our cash flows. The ability of the CLOs to make interest payments to the holders of the senior notes of those structures is highly dependent upon the performance of the CLO collateral. If the collateral in those structures were to experience a significant decrease in cash flow due to an increased default level, payment of all principal and interest outstanding may be accelerated as a result of an event of default or by holders of the senior notes. There can be no assurance that market conditions giving rise to these types of consequences will not occur, re-occur, subsist or become more acute in the future. Because our CLO structures involve complex collateral and other arrangements, the documentation for such structures is complex, is subject to differing interpretations and involves legal risk. These CLOs have served as long-term, non-recourse financing for debt investments and as a way to reduce refinancing risk, reduce maturity risk and secure a fixed cost of funds over an underlying market interest rate. An inability to continue to utilize CLOs or other similar financing vehicles successfully could limit our ability to fund future investments, grow our business or fully execute our business strategy and our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. Our CLO vehicles regularly use significant leverage to finance their assets. An inability of such vehicles to continue to raise or utilize leverage, to refinance or extend the maturities of their outstanding indebtedness or to maintain adequate levels of collateral under the terms of their CLOs could limit their ability to grow their business, reinvest principal cash, distribute cash to us or fully execute their business strategy, and our results of operations may be materially and adversely affected. If these vehicles are unable to maintain their operating results and access to capital resources, they could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet debt service and other obligations. These CLO strategies and the value of the assets of such CLO vehicles are also sensitive to changes in interest rates because these strategies rely on borrowed money and because the value of the underlying portfolio loans can fall when interest rates rise. If interest rates on CLO borrowings increase and the interest rates on the portfolio loans do not also increase, the CLO strategy is unlikely to achieve its projected returns. Also, if interest rates increase in the future, our CLO portfolio will likely experience a reduction in value because it would hold assets receiving below market rates of interest. Our credit-oriented funds and CLOs may choose to use leverage as part of their respective investment programs and regularly borrow a substantial amount of their capital. The use of leverage poses a significant degree of risk and enhances the possibility of a significant loss in the value of the investment portfolio. A fund may borrow money from time to time to purchase or carry securities or debt obligations or may enter into derivative transactions (such as total return swaps) with counterparties that have embedded leverage. The interest expense and other costs incurred in connection with such borrowing may not be recovered by appreciation in the securities or debt obligations purchased or carried and will be lost—and the timing and magnitude of such losses may be accelerated or exacerbated—in the event of a decline in the market value of such securities or debt obligations. Gains realized with borrowed funds may cause the fund's NAV to increase at a faster rate than would be the case without borrowings. However, if investment results fail to cover the cost of borrowings, the fund's NAV could also decrease faster than if there had been no borrowings. Any of the foregoing circumstances could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. The due diligence process that we undertake in connection with our investments may not reveal all facts that may be relevant in connection with an investment. Before making our investments, we conduct due diligence that we believe to be reasonable and appropriate based on the facts and circumstances applicable to each investment. The objective of the due diligence process is to identify attractive investment opportunities based on the facts and circumstances surrounding an investment, to identify possible risks associated with that investment and, in the case of private equity investments, to prepare a framework that may be used from the date of an acquisition to drive operational achievement and value creation. When conducting due diligence, we typically evaluate a 78 number of important business, financial, tax, accounting, ESG, technological, cyber-security, regulatory and legal issues in determining whether or not to proceed with an investment. Outside consultants, legal advisors, accountants and investment banks are involved in the due diligence process in varying degrees depending on the type of investment. Nevertheless, when conducting due diligence and making an assessment regarding an investment, we rely on resources available to us, including information provided by the target of the investment and, in some circumstances, third-party investigations. The due diligence process may at times be subjective with respect to newly organized companies or carve-out transactions for which only limited information is available. Instances of bribery, fraud, accounting irregularities and other improper, illegal or corrupt practices can be difficult to detect, and fraud and other deceptive practices can be widespread in certain jurisdictions. Several of our funds invest in emerging market countries that may not have established laws and regulations that are as stringent as in more developed nations, or where existing laws and regulations may not be consistently enforced. For example, our funds invest throughout jurisdictions that have material perceptions of corruption according to international rating standards (such as Transparency International's Corruption Perceptions Index) such as China, India, Indonesia, Latin America, the Middle East and Africa. Due diligence on investment opportunities in these jurisdictions is frequently more complicated because consistent and uniform commercial practices in such locations may not have developed. Bribery, fraud, accounting irregularities and corrupt practices can be especially difficult to detect in such locations. The due diligence conducted for certain of our credit strategies, as well as certain private equity and real asset investments, is limited to publicly available information. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that the due diligence investigation that we will carry out with respect to any investment opportunity will reveal or highlight all relevant facts (including fraud, bribery and other illegal activities and contingent liabilities) that may be necessary or helpful in evaluating such investment opportunity, including the existence of contingent liabilities. We also cannot be certain that our due diligence investigations will result in investments being successful or that the actual financial performance of an investment will not fall short of the financial projections we used when evaluating that investment. Our investment management activities involve investments in relatively high-risk, illiquid assets, and we may fail to realize any profits from these activities for a considerable period of time or lose some or all of the capital invested. Many of our funds and our balance sheet may hold investments in securities that are not publicly traded. In many cases, our funds or we may be prohibited by contract or by applicable securities laws from selling such securities at many points in time. Our funds or we will generally not be able to sell these securities publicly unless their sale is registered under applicable securities laws, or unless an exemption from such registration is available, and then only at such times when we do not possess material nonpublic information. The ability of many of our funds or us to dispose of investments is heavily dependent on the capital markets and in particular the public equity markets. For example, the ability to realize any value from an investment may depend upon the ability to complete an initial public offering of the portfolio company in which such investment is made. Even if the securities are publicly traded, large holdings of securities can often be disposed of only over a substantial length of time, exposing our investment returns to risks of downward movement in market prices during the intended disposition period.  Moreover, because the investment strategy of many of our funds, particularly our private equity funds, often entails having representation on our funds' public portfolio company boards, our funds may be restricted in their ability to effect such sales during certain time periods. In addition, market conditions and regulatory environment can also delay our funds' ability to exit and realize value from their investments. For example, rising interest rates and challenging credit markets may make it difficult for potential buyers to raise sufficient capital to purchase our funds' investments. Government policies regarding certain regulations, such as antitrust law, national security or restrictions on foreign investment in certain of our funds' portfolio companies or assets can also limit our funds' exit opportunities. See "—Risks Related to Our Business—Extensive regulation of our businesses affects our activities and creates the potential for significant liabilities and penalties. The possibility of increased regulatory focus or legislative or regulatory changes could materially and adversely affect our business."  As many of our funds have a finite term, we could also be forced to dispose of investments sooner than otherwise desirable. Accordingly, under certain conditions, our funds may be forced to either sell their investments at lower prices than they had expected to realize or defer sales that they had planned to make, potentially for a considerable period of time. Moreover, we may determine that we may be required to sell our balance sheet assets alongside our funds' investments at such times. We have made and expect to continue to make significant capital investments in our current and future funds and other strategies. Contributing capital to these funds is risky, and we may lose some or all of the principal amount of our investments. Our investments are subject to a number of inherent risks. Our results are highly dependent on our continued ability to generate attractive returns from our investments. Investments made by our private equity, credit or other investments in companies involve a number of significant risks inherent to private equity, credit and other investment in companies, including the following: 79 • companies in which investments are made may have limited financial resources and may be unable to meet their obligations under their securities, which may be accompanied by a deterioration in the value of their equity securities or any collateral or guarantees provided with respect to their debt; • companies in which investments are made are more likely to depend on the management talents and efforts of a small group of persons and, as a result, the death, disability, resignation or termination of one or more of those persons could have a material adverse impact on their business and prospects; • companies in which private equity investments are made may be businesses or divisions acquired from larger operating entities that may require a rebuilding or replacement of financial reporting, information technology, operational and other functions; • companies in which investments are made may from time to time be parties to litigation, may be engaged in rapidly changing businesses with products subject to a substantial risk of obsolescence and may require substantial additional capital to support their operations, finance expansion or maintain their competitive position; • instances of bribery, fraud and other deceptive practices committed by senior management of portfolio companies in which our funds or we invest may undermine our due diligence efforts with respect to such companies, and if such bribery, fraud or other deceptive practices are discovered, negatively affect the valuation of a fund's investments as well as contribute to overall market volatility that can negatively impact a fund's or our investment program; • our funds may make investments that they do not advantageously dispose of prior to the date the applicable fund is dissolved, either by expiration of such fund's term or otherwise, resulting in a lower than expected return on the investments and, potentially, on the fund itself; • our portfolio companies generally have capital structures established on the basis of financial projections based primarily on management's judgments and assumptions, and general economic conditions and other factors may cause actual performance to fall short of these financial projections, which could cause a substantial decrease in the value of our equity holdings in the portfolio company and cause our funds' or our performance to fall short of our expectations; • executive officers, directors and employees of an equity sponsor may be named as defendants in litigation involving a company in which an investment is made or is being made, and we or our funds may indemnify such executive officers, directors or employees for liability relating to such litigation; • we advise funds that invest in businesses that operate in a variety of industries that are subject to extensive domestic and foreign regulation (including companies that supply services to governmental agencies), such as the financial services industry, telecommunications industry, the defense and government services industry, the healthcare industry, oil and gas industry, the waste management industry and the food industry, which may involve greater risk due to rapidly changing market and governmental conditions in those sectors; • our transactions involve complex tax structuring that could be challenged or disregarded, which may result in losing treaty benefits or would otherwise adversely impact our investments; and • significant failures of our portfolio companies to comply with laws and regulations applicable to them could affect the ability of our funds or us to invest in other companies in certain industries in the future and could harm our reputation. For additional risks that rise from the types of investment vehicles used in an investment, see "—Risks Related to Our Business—Certain types of investment vehicles may subject us to additional risk of litigation and regulatory scrutiny." Our investments in real assets such as real estate, infrastructure and energy may expose us to increased risks and liabilities and may expose our stockholders to adverse consequences. Investments in real assets, which may include real estate, infrastructure, oil and gas properties and other energy assets, may expose us to increased risks and liabilities that are inherent in the ownership of real assets in addition to the kinds of risks and liabilities described above or investments in companies. For example: • Ownership of real assets in our funds or vehicles may increase our risk of liability under environmental laws that impose, regardless of fault, joint and several liability for the cost of remediating contamination and compensation for damages. In addition, changes in environmental laws or regulations or the environmental condition of an investment 80 may create liabilities that did not exist at the time of acquisition that would not have been foreseen. Even in cases where we are indemnified by a seller with respect to an investment against liabilities arising out of violations of environmental laws and regulations, there can be no assurance as to the financial viability of the seller to satisfy such indemnities or our ability to achieve enforcement of such indemnities; • Ownership of real assets may also present additional risk of liability for personal and property injury or impose significant operating challenges and costs, for example with respect to compliance with zoning, environmental or other applicable laws; • Real asset investments may face construction risks, including without limitation: (i) labor disputes, shortages of material and skilled labor, or work stoppages; (ii) slower than projected construction progress and the unavailability or late delivery of necessary equipment; (iii) less than optimal coordination with public utilities in the relocation of their facilities; (iv) adverse weather conditions and unexpected construction conditions; (v) accidents or the breakdown or failure of construction equipment or processes; (vi) catastrophic events such as explosions, fires and terrorist activities, and other similar events and (vii) risks associated with holding direct or indirect interests in undeveloped land or underdeveloped real property. These risks could result in substantial unanticipated delays or expenses (which may exceed expected or forecasted budgets) and, under certain circumstances, could prevent completion of construction activities once undertaken. Certain real asset investments may remain in construction phases for a prolonged period and, accordingly, may not be cash generative for a prolonged period. Recourse against the contractor may be subject to liability caps or may be subject to default or insolvency on the part of the contractor; • The operation of real assets is exposed to potential unplanned interruptions caused by significant catastrophic or force majeure events. These risks could, among other effects, adversely impact the cash flows available from investments in real assets, cause personal injury or loss of life, damage property, or instigate disruptions of service. In addition, the cost of repairing or replacing damaged assets could be considerable. Repeated or prolonged service interruptions may result in permanent loss of customers, litigation, or penalties for regulatory or contractual non-compliance. Force majeure events that are incapable of, or too costly to, cure may also have a permanent adverse effect on an investment; • The management of the business or operations of a real asset may be contracted to a third-party management company unaffiliated with us. Although it would be possible to replace any such operator, the failure of such an operator to adequately perform its duties or to act in ways that are in the best interest of the investment, or the breach by an operator of applicable agreements or laws, rules and regulations, including instances of bribery, fraud or other deceptive practices, could have an adverse effect on the investment's results of operations and financial condition. Real asset investments may involve the subcontracting of design and construction activities in respect of projects, and as a result our investments are subject to the risk that contractual provisions passing liabilities to a subcontractor could be ineffective, the subcontractor fails to perform services that it has agreed to provide and, in cases where a single subcontractor provides services to various investments, the subcontractor becomes insolvent; • Technology advances may decrease the value of our current investments; and • Certain investments are susceptible to risks of defaults under, or cancellation of contracts with, third parties. Without limiting the foregoing risks, we note that investments that we hold and may make in the future in the oil and gas industry may present specific environmental, safety and other inherent risks. Such investments are subject to stringent and complex foreign, federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations specific to oil and gas industries, including, for example, those governing transportation, exploration and production of oil and natural gas. There are also various conservation laws and regulations applicable to oil and natural gas production and related operations, in addition to regulations governing occupational health and safety, the discharge of materials into the environment and other practices relating to environmental protection. Failure to comply with applicable laws, ordinances and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of remedial obligations and the issuance of orders enjoining some or all of our operations in affected areas. These laws, ordinances and regulations may also restrict the rate of oil and natural gas production below the rate that would otherwise be possible and increase the cost of production, thereby reducing profitability. Our oil and gas investments are subject to other risks, such as: • Volatility in the prices of oil and gas properties may make it difficult to ensure that our acquisition of interest in such properties is at appropriate prices; • Currently unforeseen environmental incidents may occur or past non-compliance with environmental laws or regulations may be discovered making it difficult to predict the future costs or impact of compliance; 81 • The oil and gas industries present inherent risk of personal and property injury, for which we may not be fully insured or indemnified; • There may be unforeseen or increased regulatory and environmental risks stemming from the use of new technologies, including hydraulic fracturing; • Our estimated oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids reserve quantities and future production rates are based on many assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate. Any material inaccuracies in these reserve estimates or the underlying assumptions will materially affect the quantities and value of our reserves; • The performance of our energy investments depend on the skill, ability and decisions of third-party operators. The success of our investment will depend on their exploitation, development, construction and drilling activities and the timing and cost of drilling, completing and operating wells. Failure of such operators to comply with applicable laws, rules and regulations could result in liabilities to us, reduce the value of our interest in the oil and natural gas properties, and materially and adversely affect our cash flows and results of operations; and • If commodity prices decline and remain depressed for a prolonged period, a significant portion of our development projects may become uneconomic and cause write-downs of the value of our oil and gas properties, which may reduce the value of our energy investments, have a negative impact on our ability to use these investments as collateral or otherwise have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Investments in real estate are subject to the risks inherent in the ownership and operation of real estate and real estate-related businesses and assets. These risks include those associated with the burdens of ownership of real property; general and local economic conditions; changes in supply of and demand for competing properties in an area (as a result, for instance, of overbuilding); fluctuations in the average occupancy (including as a result of social distancing requirement and remote working environment during the COVID-19 pandemic); the financial resources of tenants; changes in building, environmental and other laws; energy and supply shortages; various uninsured or uninsurable risks; natural disasters; changes in government regulations (such as rent control); changes in real property tax rates; changes in interest rates; the reduced availability of mortgage funds that may render the sale or refinancing of properties difficult or impracticable; negative developments in the economy that depress travel activity; environmental liabilities; contingent liabilities on disposition of assets; and terrorist attacks, war and other factors that are beyond our control. Our real estate investments are also subject to additional risks, including but not limited to the following: • The success of certain investments will depend on the ability to restructure and effect improvements in the operations of the applicable properties, and there is no assurance that we will be successful in identifying or implementing such restructuring programs and improvements. • If we acquire direct or indirect interests in undeveloped land or underdeveloped real property, which may often be non-income producing, they will be subject to the risks normally associated with such assets and development activities, including risks relating to the availability and timely receipt of zoning and other regulatory or environmental approvals, the cost and timely completion of construction (including risks beyond the control of us or our fund, such as weather or labor conditions or material shortages) and the availability of both construction and permanent financing on favorable terms. • The strategy of our real estate funds may be based, in part, on the availability for purchase of assets at favorable prices followed by the continuation or improvement of market conditions or on the availability of refinancing. No assurance can be given that the real estate businesses or assets can be acquired or disposed of at favorable prices or that refinancing will be available. • Lenders in commercial real estate financing customarily will require a "bad boy" guarantee, which typically provides that the lender can recover losses from the guarantors for certain bad acts, such as fraud or intentional misrepresentation, intentional waste, willful misconduct, criminal acts, misappropriation of funds, voluntary incurrence of prohibited debt and environmental losses sustained by lender. For our acquisitions, "bad boy" guarantees would generally be extended by our funds, our balance sheet or a combination of both depending on the ownership of the relevant asset. In addition, "bad boy" guarantees typically provide that the loan will be a full personal recourse obligation of the guarantor, for certain actions, such as prohibited transfers of the collateral or changes of control and voluntary bankruptcy of the borrower. It is expected that commercial real estate financing arrangements generally will require "bad boy" guarantees and in the event that such a guarantee is called, a fund's or our assets could be materially and adversely affected. Moreover, "bad boy" guarantees could apply to actions of the joint venture partners associated 82 with the investments, and in certain cases the acts of such joint venture partner could result in liability to our funds or us under such guarantees. • The acquisition, ownership and disposition of real properties carry certain specific litigation risks. Litigation may be commenced with respect to a property acquired in relation to activities that took place prior to the acquisition of such property. In addition, at the time of disposition, other potential buyers may bring claims related to the asset or for due diligence expenses or other damages. After the sale of a real estate asset, buyers may later sue our funds or us for losses associated with latent defects or other problems not uncovered in due diligence. • Our funds or we may be subject to certain risks associated with investments in particular assets. REITs may be affected by changes in the value of their underlying properties and by defaults by borrowers or tenants. REITs depend on their ability to generate cash flow to make distributions and may be impacted by changes in tax laws or by a failure to qualify for tax-free pass through income. Investments in real estate debt investments may be unsecured and subordinated to a substantial amount of indebtedness. Such debt investments may not be protected by financial covenants. Non-performing real estate loans may require a substantial amount of workout negotiations and/or restructuring, which may entail, among other things, a substantial reduction in the interest rate and a substantial write-down of the principal of such loan. Investments in commercial mortgage loans are subject to risks of delinquency, foreclosure and loss of principal. In the event of any default under a mortgage loan held directly by our fund or us, our fund or we will bear a risk of loss of principal to the extent of any deficiency between the value of the collateral and the principal and accrued interest of the loan. Investments in assets or businesses that are distressed may have little or no near-term cash flow and involve a high degree of risk. Such investments subject to bankruptcy or insolvency could be subordinated or disallowed. Infrastructure investments often involve an ongoing commitment to a municipal, state, federal or foreign government or regulatory agencies. The nature of these obligations exposes the owners of infrastructure investments to a higher level of regulatory control than typically imposed on other businesses. They may also rely on complex government licenses, concessions, leases or contracts, which may be difficult to obtain or maintain. Infrastructure investments may require operators to manage such investments, and such operators' failure to comply with laws, including prohibitions against bribing of government officials, may materially and adversely affect the value of such investments and cause us serious reputational and legal harm. Revenues for such investments may rely on contractual agreements for the provision of services with a limited number of counterparties, and are consequently subject to heightened counterparty default risk. The operations and cash flow of infrastructure investments are also more sensitive to inflation and, in certain cases, commodity price risk. Furthermore, services provided by infrastructure investments may be subject to rate regulations by government entities that determine or limit prices that may be charged. Similarly, users of applicable services, or government entities in response to such users, may react negatively to any adjustments in rates, which may reduce the profitability of such infrastructure investments. Our growth equity strategy invests in emerging and less established companies that are heavily dependent on new technologies. Our growth equity funds may make investments in companies that are in a conceptual or early stage of development. These companies are often characterized by short operating histories, new technologies and products, quickly evolving markets, management teams that may have limited experience working together and in many cases, negative cash flow, all of which enhance the difficulty of evaluating these investment opportunities and the ultimate success of such investments. Other substantial operational risks to which such companies are subject include: uncertain market acceptance of the company's products or services; a high degree of regulatory risk for new or untried or untested business models, products and services; high levels of competition among similarly situated companies; new competing products and technology; lower barriers to entry and downward pricing pressure; lower capitalizations and fewer financial resources; the potential for rapid organizational or strategic change; and susceptibility to personal misconduct by or departure of key executives or founders. In addition, growth equity companies may be more susceptible to macroeconomic effects and industry downturns, and their valuations may be more volatile depending on the achievement of milestones, such as receiving a governmental license or approval. Growth equity companies generally depend heavily on intellectual property rights, including patents, trademarks and proprietary products or processes. The ability to effectively enforce patent, trademark and other intellectual property laws in a cost-effective manner will affect the value of many of these companies. The presence of patents or other intellectual property rights belonging to other parties may lead to the termination of the research and development of a portfolio company's particular product. In addition, if a portfolio company infringes on third-party patents or other intellectual property rights, it could be prevented from using certain third-party technologies or forced to acquire licenses in order to obtain access to such technologies at a high cost. 83 Failure to protect our intellectual property rights adequately may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or our ability to compete. Although we use a broad range of measures to protect their respective intellectual property rights, third parties may infringe or misappropriate our intellectual property, and we cannot provide any assurances that these protections will be adequate to prevent competitors from copying or reverse-engineering our services or independently developing and marketing services that are substantially equivalent to or superior to ours. Moreover, third parties may be able to successfully challenge, oppose, invalidate, render unenforceable, dilute, misappropriate or circumvent our trademarks, copyrights, patent and other intellectual property rights. We may fail to maintain or be unable to obtain adequate protections for our intellectual property in the U.S. or foreign countries. Further, our intellectual property rights may not receive the same degree of protection in foreign countries as they would in the United States because of the differences in foreign trademark, copyright, patent and other laws concerning proprietary rights. Such failure or inability to obtain or maintain adequate protection of our intellectual property rights for any reason could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Monitoring and protecting intellectual property rights can be challenging and costly. From time to time, we may be required to initiate litigation or other action to enforce its intellectual property rights or to establish their validity and enforceability. Such action could result in substantial cost and diversion of resources and management attention, and we cannot provide any assurances that any such action will be successful. Certain of our investment vehicles, and our firm through our balance sheet, hold high-yield, below investment grade or unrated debt, or securities of companies that are experiencing significant financial or business difficulties, which generally entail greater risk, and if those risks are realized, it could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. Certain of our funds, CLOs and other investment vehicles, and our firm through our balance sheet, invest in high-yield, below investment grade or unrated debt, including corporate loans and bonds, each of which generally involves a higher degree of risk than investment grade rated debt, and may be less liquid. Issuers of high yield, below investment grade or unrated debt may be highly leveraged, and their relatively high debt-to-equity ratios create increased risks that their operations might not generate sufficient cash flow to service their debt obligations. As a result, high yield, below investment grade or unrated debt is often less liquid than investment grade rated debt. Also, investments may be made in loans and other forms of debt that are not marketable securities and therefore are not liquid. In the absence of appropriate hedging measures, changes in interest rates generally will also cause the value of fixed rate debt investments to vary inversely to such changes. The obligor of a debt security or instrument may not be able or willing to pay interest or to repay principal when due in accordance with the terms of the associated agreement and collateral may not be available or sufficient to cover such liabilities. Commercial bank lenders and other creditors may be able to contest payments to the holders of other debt obligations of the same obligor in the event of default under their commercial bank loan agreements. Sub-participation interests in syndicated debt may be subject to certain additional risks as a result of having no direct contractual relationship with underlying borrowers. Debt securities and instruments may be rated below investment grade by recognized rating agencies or unrated and face ongoing uncertainties and exposure to adverse business, financial or economic conditions and the issuer's failure to make timely interest and principal payments. Certain of our investment funds, especially in our strategic credit strategy, and our firm through our balance sheet may hold interests in business enterprises involved in work-outs, liquidations, reorganizations, bankruptcies and similar transactions and may purchase high-risk receivables. An investment in such business enterprises entails the risk that the transaction in which such business enterprise is involved either will be unsuccessful, will take considerable time or will result in a distribution of cash or a new security the value of which will be less than the purchase price to the fund of the security or other financial instrument in respect of which such distribution is received. In addition, if an anticipated transaction does not in fact occur, we or the fund may be required to sell the investment at a loss. Investments in troubled companies may also be adversely affected by U.S. federal and state and non-U.S. laws relating to, among other things, fraudulent conveyances, voidable preferences, lender liability and a bankruptcy court's discretionary power to disallow, subordinate or disenfranchise particular claims. Investments in securities and private claims of troubled companies made in connection with an attempt to influence a restructuring proposal or plan of reorganization in a bankruptcy case may also involve substantial litigation, which has the potential to adversely impact us or unrelated funds or portfolio companies. Companies that were not in financial distress at the time we or our funds made investments may in the future require work-outs, liquidations, reorganizations, bankruptcies or similar transactions, and as a result, become subject to the same risks described above. Because there is substantial uncertainty concerning the outcome of transactions involving financially troubled companies, there is a potential risk of loss of the entire investment in such company. Such investments involve a substantial degree of risk, and a decline in value of the assets would have a material adverse effect on our financial performance. 84 We often pursue investment opportunities that involve business, regulatory, legal or other complexities. As an element of our investment style, we often pursue complex investment opportunities. This can often take the form of substantial business, regulatory or legal complexity that would deter other investment managers. Our tolerance for complexity presents risks, as such transactions can be more difficult, expensive and time consuming to finance and execute; it can be more difficult to manage or realize value from the assets acquired in such transactions; and such transactions sometimes entail a higher level of regulatory scrutiny, the application of complex tax laws or a greater risk of contingent liabilities. Our transactions involve complex tax structures that are costly to establish, monitor and maintain, and as we pursue a larger number of transactions across multiple assets classes and in multiple jurisdictions, such costs will increase and the risk that a tax matter is overlooked or inadequately or inconsistently addressed will increase. Consequently, we may fail to achieve the desired tax benefit or otherwise decrease the returns of our investments or damage the reputation of our firm. Changes in law and regulation and in the enforcement of existing law and regulation, such as antitrust laws and tax laws, also add complexity and risk to our business. Further, we, directly or through our funds, may acquire an investment that is subject to contingent liabilities, which could be unknown to us at the time of acquisition or, if they are known to us, we may not accurately assess or protect against the risks that they present. Acquired contingent liabilities could thus result in unforeseen losses for us or our funds. In addition, in connection with the disposition of an investment in a portfolio company, we or a fund may be required to make representations about the business and financial affairs of such portfolio company typical of those made in connection with the sale of a business. We or a fund may also be required to indemnify the purchasers of such investment to the extent that any such representations are inaccurate. These arrangements may result in the incurrence of contingent liabilities by us or a fund, even after the disposition of an investment. Any of these risks could harm the performance of us or our funds. We make large private equity and real assets investments, which involves certain complexities and risks that are not encountered in small- and medium-sized investments. Our private equity funds make investments in companies with relatively large capitalizations, which involves certain complexities and risks that are not encountered in small- and medium-sized investments. For example, larger transactions may be more difficult to finance and exiting larger deals may present incremental challenges. In addition, larger transactions may pose greater challenges in implementing changes in the company's management, culture, finances or operations, and may entail greater scrutiny by regulators, interest groups and other third parties. These constituencies may be more active in opposing larger investments by certain private equity firms. In some transactions, the amount of equity capital that is required to complete a large capitalization private equity or real asset transaction may be significant and may require significantly more capital than is then available for investment by our investment funds. We sometimes structure these kinds of transactions as “consortium transactions.”  A consortium transaction involves an equity investment in which two or more firms serve together or collectively as equity sponsors. Consortium transactions generally entail a reduced level of control by our firm over the investment because governance rights must be shared with the other consortium investors. Accordingly, we may not be able to control decisions relating to a consortium investment, including decisions relating to the management and operation of the company and the timing and nature of any exit, which could result in the risks described in “—We and our funds have made investments in companies that we do not control, exposing us to the risk of decisions made by others with which we may not agree.” Any of these factors could increase the risk that our larger investments could be less successful. The consequences to our investment funds of an unsuccessful larger investment could be more severe given the size of the investment. Moreover, we could committee significant amounts of our capital to such large investments. More recently, instead of consortium transactions, we have sought to syndicate a portion of our capital commitment in larger private equity and real asset transactions that we believe may exceed appropriately sized investments for our funds.  A syndication transaction involves KKR seeking third parties to commit equity to our investments, typically as passive co-investors, so that our firm can retain a level of control over the investment.  However, if we are unable to syndicate all or part of such commitment, or if such co-investors fails to fund their commitments, we may be required to fund the remaining commitment amount from our balance sheet. If we are required to keep on our balance sheet a large portion of the capital commitment that could not be syndicated to third parties, poor performance of such large investment may have a material adverse impact on our financial results. See “—Risks Related to Our Business—If we are unable to syndicate the securities or indebtedness or realize returns on investments financed with our balance sheet assets, our liquidity, business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected” and “—Our funds and our firm through our balance sheet may make a limited number of investments, or investments that are concentrated in certain issuers, geographic regions or asset types, which could negatively affect our performance or the performance of our funds to the extent those concentrated assets perform poorly.” 85 We and our funds have made investments in companies that we do not control, exposing us to the risk of decisions made by others with which we may not agree. We and our funds hold investments that include debt instruments and equity securities of companies that we do not control, and such investments may comprise an increasing part of our business. Such instruments and securities may be acquired by our funds through trading activities or through purchases of securities from the issuer or we may purchase such instruments and securities on a principal basis. In addition, our funds may acquire minority equity interests, particularly when making private equity investments in Asia, making growth equity investments or sponsoring investments as part of an investor consortium or through many of our credit funds. Our funds may also dispose of a portion of their majority equity investments in portfolio companies over time in a manner that results in the funds retaining a minority investment. We and our funds, including our newer private equity funds, have made certain minority investments in publicly traded companies. We have also made minority investments in companies including hedge fund and real estate managers on our balance sheet. For example, we have investments in Marshall Wace, BlackGold, PAAMCO Prisma and Drawbridge. Transactions made by companies we do not control could be viewed as unwanted, damage our reputation, and consequently impair our ability to source transactions in the future. Those investments will be subject to the risk that the company in which the investment is made may make business, financial or management decisions with which we do not agree or that the majority stakeholders or the management of the company may take risks or otherwise act in a manner that does not serve our interests. These companies may be subject to complex regulatory requirements and instances of non-compliance by them may subject us to reputational harm or in certain cases, liability. We are also reliant on the systems and processes of these companies for, among other, financial information and valuations of our investments in or with them, including hedge fund managers and their funds, but we do not control the decisions and judgments made during such processes. Our investments in hedge fund managers may subject us to additional regulatory complexities or scrutiny if we are deemed to control the company for regulatory purposes, despite our minority interest. These asset managers may also be dependent on their founders and other key persons, and the loss of these key personnel could adversely impact our investment. If any of the foregoing were to occur, the value of the investments held by our funds or by us could decrease and our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow could be materially and adversely affected. We make investments in companies that are based outside of the United States, which may expose us to additional risks not typically associated with investing in companies that are based in the United States. Many of our funds invest or have the flexibility to invest a significant portion of their assets in the equity, debt, loans or other securities of issuers that are based outside of the United States. A substantial amount of these investments consist of private equity investments made by our private equity funds. For example, as of December 31, 2021, approximately 53% of the capital invested in those funds was attributable to non-U.S. investments. Investing in companies that are based or have significant operations in countries outside of the United States and, in particular, in emerging markets such as China and India, Eastern Europe, South and Southeast Asia, Latin America and Africa, involves risks and considerations that are not typically associated with investments in companies established in the United States. These risks may include the following: • the possibility of restrictions on foreign direct investment and exchange control regulations; • restrictions on repatriation of profit on investments or of capital invested; • the imposition of non-U.S. taxes or withholding taxes on income or gain with respect to certain assets and/or changes in tax law; • differences in the legal and regulatory environment, such as the recognition of information barriers, or enhanced legal and regulatory compliance; • greater levels of corruption and potential exposure to the FCPA and other laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments, their officials and other third parties; • violations of trade sanctions or trade control regimes and the potential for the imposition of new or additional tariffs; • limitations on borrowings to be used to fund acquisitions or dividends; • limitations on the deductibility of interest and other financing costs and expense for income tax purposes in certain jurisdictions; 86 • limitations on permissible counterparties in our transactions or consolidation rules that effectively restrict the types of businesses in which we may invest; • political risks generally, including political and social instability, nationalization, expropriation of assets or political hostility to investments by foreign or private equity investors; • less liquid markets; • reliance on a more limited number of commodity inputs, service providers or distribution mechanisms; • adverse fluctuations in currency exchange rates and costs associated with conversion of investment principal and income from one currency into another; • higher rates of inflation; • less available current information about an issuer; • higher transaction costs; • less government supervision of exchanges, brokers and issuers; • less developed bankruptcy and other laws; • greater application of concepts like equitable subordination, which may, in bankruptcy or insolvency, result in the subordination of debt or other senior interests held by our investment funds, vehicles or accounts in companies in which our investment funds, vehicles or accounts also hold equity interests; • difficulty in enforcing contractual obligations; • lack of uniform or robust accounting, auditing, financial reporting standards, practices and disclosure requirements and less government supervision and regulation; • less stringent requirements relating to fiduciary duties; • fewer investor protections; and • greater price volatility. Although we expect that much of the capital commitments of our funds will be denominated in U.S. dollars, our investments and capital commitments that are denominated in a foreign currency, such as euro, will be subject to the risk that the value of a particular currency will change in relation to one or more other currencies. A depreciation of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar, if not adequately hedged, would reduce the value of our investments in the relevant region, which could adversely impact our financial results. Factors that may affect currency values include trade balances, the ability of countries to pay their national debt, levels of short-term interest rates, differences in relative values of similar assets in different currencies, long-term opportunities for investment and capital appreciation and political developments. We may employ hedging techniques to reduce these risks, but we can offer no assurance that such strategies will be effective or even available at all. If we engage in hedging transactions, we may be exposed to additional risks associated with such transactions. See "—Risk management activities may adversely affect the return on our investments” and  “—Risks Related to Our Business—Extensive regulation of our businesses affects our activities and creates the potential for significant liabilities and penalties. The possibility of increased regulatory focus or legislative or regulatory changes could materially and adversely affect our business.” In addition, various countries and regulatory bodies may implement controls on foreign exchange and outbound remittances of currency, which could impact not only the timing and amount of capital contributions that are required to be made to our funds but also the value, in U.S. dollars, of our investments and investment proceeds. See "—Risks Related to Our Business—Difficult market and economic conditions can adversely affect our business in many ways, including by reducing the value or performance of the investments that we manage or by reducing the ability of our funds to raise or deploy capital, each of which could negatively impact our net income and cash flow and adversely affect our financial prospects and condition" and "—Risks Related to Our Business—Extensive regulation of our businesses affects our activities and creates the potential for significant liabilities and penalties. The possibility of increased regulatory focus or legislative or regulatory changes could materially and adversely affect our business." Generally, see also "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results 87 of Operations—Business Environment" for a discussion of recent developments in market and business conditions that may affect our business. Third-party investors in our funds with commitment-based structures may not satisfy their contractual obligation to fund capital calls when requested by us, which could adversely affect a fund's operations and performance. Investors in certain of our funds make capital commitments to those funds that the funds are entitled to call from those investors at any time during prescribed periods. We depend on fund investors fulfilling their commitments when we call capital from them in order for such funds to consummate investments and otherwise pay their obligations (for example, management fees) when due. Any fund investor that did not fund a capital call would generally be subject to several possible penalties, including having a significant amount of existing investment forfeited in that fund. However, the impact of the penalty is directly correlated to the amount of capital previously invested by the investor in the fund and if an investor has invested little or no capital, for instance early in the life of the fund, then the forfeiture penalty may not be as meaningful. Investors may in the future also negotiate for lesser or reduced penalties at the outset of the fund, thereby inhibiting our ability to enforce the funding of a capital call. If our fund investors were to fail to satisfy a significant amount of capital calls for any particular fund or funds, the operation and performance of those funds could be materially and adversely affected. Our equity investments and many of our debt investments often rank junior to investments made by others, exposing us to greater risk of losing our investment. In many cases, the companies in which we or our funds invest have, or are permitted to have, outstanding indebtedness or equity securities that rank senior to our or our fund's investment. By their terms, such instruments may provide that their holders are entitled to receive payments of distributions, interest or principal on or before the dates on which payments are to be made in respect of our or our fund's investment. Also, in the event of insolvency, liquidation, dissolution, reorganization or bankruptcy of a company in which an investment is made, holders of securities ranking senior to our investment would typically be entitled to receive payment in full before distributions could be made in respect of our investment. In addition, debt investments made by us or our funds in our portfolio companies may be equitably subordinated to the debt investments made by third parties in our portfolio companies. After repaying senior security holders, the company may not have any remaining assets to use for repaying amounts owed in respect of our investment. To the extent that any assets remain, holders of claims that rank equally with our investment would be entitled to share on an equal and ratable basis in distributions that are made out of those assets. Also, during periods of financial distress or following insolvency, the ability of us or our funds to influence a company's affairs and to take actions to protect an investment may be substantially less than that of the senior creditors. Risk management activities may adversely affect the return on our investments. When managing exposure to market risks, we employ hedging strategies or certain forms of derivative instruments to limit our exposure to changes in the relative values of investments that may result from market developments, including changes in prevailing interest rates, currency exchange rates and commodity prices. The scope of risk management activities undertaken by us is selective and varies based on the level and volatility of interest rates, prevailing foreign currency exchange rates, the types of investments that are made and other changing market conditions. We do not seek to hedge our exposure in all currencies or all investments, which means that our exposure to certain market risks are not limited. Where applicable, we use hedging transactions and other derivative instruments to reduce the effects of a decline in the value of a position, but they do not eliminate the possibility of fluctuations in the value of the position or prevent losses if the value of the position declines. However, such activities can establish other positions designed to gain from those same developments, thereby offsetting the decline in the value of the position. Such transactions may also limit the opportunity for gain if the value of a position increases. Moreover, it may not be possible to limit the exposure to a market development that is so generally anticipated that a hedging or other derivative transaction cannot be entered into at an acceptable price. The success of any hedging or other derivative transactions that we enter into generally will depend on our ability to correctly predict market changes. As a result, while we may enter into such transactions in order to reduce our exposure to market risks, unanticipated market changes may result in poorer overall investment performance than if the hedging or other derivative transaction had not been executed. In addition, the degree of correlation between price movements of the instruments used in connection with hedging activities and price movements in a position being hedged may vary. Moreover, for a variety of reasons, we may not seek or be successful in establishing a perfect correlation between the instruments used in hedging or other derivative transactions and the positions being hedged. An imperfect correlation could prevent us from achieving the intended result and could give rise to a loss. In addition, it may not be possible to fully or perfectly limit our exposure against all changes in the value of its investments, because the value of investments is likely to fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, some of which will be beyond our control or ability to hedge. 88 While hedging arrangements may reduce certain risks, such arrangements themselves may entail certain other risks. These arrangements may require the posting of cash collateral, including at a time when a fund has insufficient cash or illiquid assets such that the posting of the cash is either impossible or requires the sale of assets at prices that do not reflect their underlying value. Moreover, these hedging arrangements may generate significant transaction costs, including potential tax costs, that reduce the returns generated by a fund. Various regulators have proposed or adopted regulations governing futures and swaps, which may limit our trading activities and our ability to implement effective hedging strategies or increase the costs of compliance. See "Risks Related to Our Business—Extensive regulation of our businesses affects our activities and creates the potential for significant liabilities and penalties. The possibility of increased regulatory focus or legislative or regulatory changes could materially and adversely affect our business." Our funds and our firm through our balance sheet may make a limited number of investments, or investments that are concentrated in certain issuers, geographic regions or asset types, which could negatively affect our performance or the performance of our funds to the extent those concentrated assets perform poorly. The governing agreements of our funds contain only limited investment restrictions and only limited requirements as to diversification of fund investments, either by geographic region or asset type. Our private equity funds generally permit up to 20% of the fund to be invested in a single company. We also advise funds that invest in a single industry such as growth equity, infrastructure or real estate or funds that focus on particular geographic region. During periods of difficult market conditions or slowdowns in these sectors or geographic regions, decreased revenues, difficulty in obtaining access to financing and increased funding costs may be exacerbated by this concentration of investments, which would result in lower investment returns. Because a significant portion of a fund's capital may be invested in a single investment or portfolio company, a loss with respect to such investment or portfolio company could have a material adverse impact on such fund's capital. Accordingly, a lack of diversification on the part of a fund could materially and adversely affect a fund's performance and therefore, our results of operations and financial condition. Similarly, our balance sheet has significant exposures to certain issuers, industries or asset classes.  Because we hold interests in some of our portfolio companies both through our balance sheet investments in our private equity funds and direct co-investments, fluctuation in the fair values of these portfolio companies may have a disproportionate impact on the investment income earned by us as compared to other portfolio companies. In these circumstances, as was the case with energy investments beginning in late 2014 through and into 2018, losses may have an even greater impact on our results of operations and financial condition, as we would directly bear the full extent of such losses. Our balance sheet also has significant exposures to a small group of companies, with our investments in PetVet Care Centers, LLC (health care sector) and USI, Inc. (financial services sector) representing approximately 6.8% and 6.2%, respectively, and our top five investments representing approximately 25.1% of our balance sheet's total investments as of December 31, 2021. As a result, our investment income is subject to greater volatility depending on such companies' operating results and other idiosyncratic factors specific to such companies, and in the case of publicly traded companies, our operating results would be impacted by volatility in the public markets generally and in the stock price of such companies. See "—Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Analysis of Non-GAAP Performance Measures —Non-GAAP Balance Sheet Measures" for information on significant investments held on our balance sheet. Our business activities may give rise to a conflict of interest with our clients. As we have expanded and as we continue to expand the number and scope of our businesses, we increasingly confront potential conflicts of interest relating to investment activities among our various funds and also our own account. For example: • In pursuing the interest of our fund investors, we may take actions that could reduce our AUM or our profits that we could otherwise realize in the short term; • We may be required to allocate investment opportunities among investment vehicles that may have overlapping investment objectives, including vehicles that may have different fee structures, and among KKR co-investment vehicles (including vehicles in which KKR employees may investment) and third-party co-investors; • We may, on behalf of our funds or KKR itself, buy, sell, hold or otherwise deal with securities or other investments that may be purchased, sold or held by our other funds or that are otherwise issued by a portfolio company in which our funds invest. Conflicts of interest may arise between a fund, on one hand, and KKR on the other or among our funds including but not limited to those relating to the purchase or sale of investments, the structuring of, or exercise of rights with respect to investment transactions and the advice we provide to our funds.  For example we may sell an investment at a different time or for different consideration than our funds; 89 • We may invest on behalf of our fund or for our own account in a portfolio company of one fund that is a competitor, service provider, supplier, customer, or other counterparty with respect to a portfolio company of another fund; • We may structure an investment in a manner that may be attractive to fund investors from a tax perspective even though KKR is required to pay corporate taxes; • A decision to acquire material non-public information about a company while pursuing an investment opportunity for a particular fund or our own account may result in our having to restrict the ability of other funds to take any action with regards to that company or its securities; • Our fiduciary obligations to our fund investors may preclude us from pursuing attractive proprietary investment opportunities, in particular as we enter into strategic relationships with broad investment mandates similar to the investments we make with our balance sheet. Notwithstanding the foregoing, we also allocate certain investments that we believe are not suitable for our funds to our balance sheet; • Conflicts may arise in allocating investments, time, services, expenses or resources among the investment activities of our funds, KKR, other KKR-affiliated entities and the employees of KKR; • Our employees have made personal investments in a variety of our investment funds, which may result in conflicts of interest among investors of our funds or stockholders regarding investment decisions for these funds; • The general partner's entitlement to receive carried interest from many of our funds may create an incentive for that general partner to make riskier and more speculative investments on behalf of a fund than would be the case in the absence of such an arrangement. In addition, for our funds that pay carried interest based on accrued rather than realized gains, the amount of carried interest to which the general partner is entitled and the timing of its receipt of carried interest will depend on the valuation by the general partner of the fund's investment; • Under the 2017 Tax Act, investments must be held for more than three years, rather than the prior requirement of more than one year, for carried interest to be treated for U.S. federal income tax purposes as capital gain, which may create a conflict of interest between the limited partner investors (whose investments would receive such capital gain treatment after a holding period of only one year) and the general partner on the execution, closing or timing of sales of a fund's investments in connection with the receipt of carried interest; • From time to time, one of our funds or other investment vehicles (including CLOs) may seek to effect a purchase or sale of an investment with one or more of our other funds or other investment vehicles in a so-called "cross transaction," or we as a principal may seek to effect a purchase or sale of our investment with one or more of our funds or other investment vehicles in a so-called "principal transaction"; • A dispute may arise between our portfolio companies, and if such dispute is not resolved amicably or results in litigation, it could cause significant reputational harm to us, and our fund investors may become dissatisfied with our handling of the dispute; • The investors in our investment vehicles are based in a wide variety of jurisdictions and take a wide variety of forms, and consequently have diverging interests among themselves from a regulatory, tax or legal perspective or with respect to investment policies and target risk/return profiles; and • We or our affiliates, including our capital markets business, may receive fees or other compensation in connection with specific transactions or different clients that may give rise to conflicts. The decision to take on an opportunity in one of our businesses may, as a practical matter, also limit the ability of one or our other businesses to take advantage of other related opportunities. In addition, our funds also invest in a broad range of asset classes throughout the corporate capital structure. These investments include investments in corporate loans and debt securities, preferred equity securities and common equity securities. In certain cases, we may manage separate funds that invest in different parts of the same company's capital structure. For example, our credit funds may invest in different classes of the same company's debt and may make debt investments in a company that is owned by one of our private equity funds. In those cases, the interests of our funds may not always be aligned, which could create actual or potential conflicts of interest or the appearance of such conflicts. For example, one of our private equity funds could have an interest in pursuing an acquisition, divestiture or other transaction that, in its judgment, could enhance the value of the private equity investment, even though the proposed transaction would subject one of our credit fund's debt investments to additional or increased risks. Finally, our ability to effectively implement a public securities strategy may 90 be limited to the extent that contractual obligations entered into in the ordinary course of our private equity business impose restrictions on our engaging in transactions that we may be interested in otherwise pursuing. We may also cause different investment funds to invest in a single portfolio company, for example, where the fund that made an initial investment no longer has capital available to invest. Conflicts may also arise where our insurance subsidiaries make investments, we make balance sheet investments for our own account or we permit employees to invest alongside our funds or our balance sheet for their own account. In certain cases, we may require that a transaction or investment be approved by fund investors or their advisory committees, be approved by a committee of independent directors of Global Atlantic, be approved by an independent valuation expert, be subject to a fairness opinion, be based on arm's-length pricing data or be calculated in accordance with a formula provided for in a fund's governing documents prior to the completion of the relevant transaction or investment to address potential conflicts of interest. Such instances include principal transactions where we or our affiliates warehouse an investment in a portfolio company for the benefit of one or more of our funds pending the contribution of committed capital by the investors in such funds, follow-on investments by a fund other than a fund that made an initial investment in a company, or transactions in which we arrange for one of our funds to buy a security from, or sell a security to, another one of our funds. In addition to the foregoing, we may also encounter conflicts of interest with our insurance subsidiaries and with Global Atlantic generally.  For example, we try to mitigate conflicts of interests when transactions may be suitable for both our insurance subsidiaries and our investment funds. We also try to mitigate conflicts of interest or when transactions may be suitable for both our insurance subsidiaries and our own balance sheet.  However, we may be unsuccessful in such mitigation efforts, or we may be obliged to take an action or refrain from taking an action that would be advantageous to us as a firm.  To the extent we are unable to effectively manage these conflicts of interest, our reputation, business and financial results may be adversely affected. Appropriately dealing with actual or perceived conflicts of interest is complex and difficult and we could suffer reputational damage or potential liability if we fail, or appear to fail, to deal appropriately with conflicts as they arise. Regulatory scrutiny on, or litigation in connection with, conflicts of interest could have a material adverse effect on our reputation which could in turn materially and adversely affect our business in a number of ways, including as a result of an inability to raise additional funds, an inability or unwillingness to enter into or establish new insurance business with Global Atlantic without material restrictions or at all, and a reluctance of counterparties to do business with us. Investors in our real assets core funds in our Private Markets business line may redeem their investments in these funds. Unlike investors in our traditional real estate and infrastructure funds, which in general do not permit redemptions of their fund interests until the liquidation of the funds upon their scheduled dates to terminate, our core real estate and infrastructure funds permit their investors to redeem their funds interests from time to time. Substantial redemptions could be triggered by a number of events, including unsatisfactory fund performance, events in the markets, significant change in our personnel, our removal or replacement as the investment manager of the fund, legal or regulatory issues that investors perceive to have a bearing on the fund, or other events. While the general partner of such funds has no obligation to take any actions to satisfy redemption requests other than out of available cash in the fund, actions taken to meet substantial redemption requests could result in material adverse effect to the fund's investments, ability to make new investments, or otherwise be able to achieve its investment objects, which could negatively impact our financial results. Certain of our investment advisory arrangements may be terminated with minimal notice. Investors in our funds in certain of our leveraged credit investment vehicles may generally submit redemptions to redeem their investments on a quarterly or monthly basis following the expiration of a specified period of time or in certain cases capital may be withdrawn earlier subject to a fee, in each case subject to the applicable fund's specific redemption provisions. Factors that could result in investors leaving our funds include changes in interest rates that make other investments more attractive, changes in or rebalancing due to investors' asset allocation policy, changes in investor perception regarding our focus or alignment of interest, unhappiness with a fund's performance or investment strategy, changes in our reputation, departures or changes in responsibilities of key investment professionals, and performance and liquidity needs of fund investors. In a declining market or period of economic disruption or uncertainty, the pace of redemptions and consequent reduction in our AUM could accelerate. The decrease in revenues that would result from significant redemptions from our funds or other similar investment vehicles could have a material adverse effect on our business, revenues, net income and cash flows. A portion of assets invested in our funds in the Public Markets business line are managed through separately managed accounts or entities structured for investment by one investor or related investors whereby we earn management and incentive fees, and we intend to continue to seek additional separately managed account or single entity mandates. The investment 91 management agreements we enter into in connection with managing separately managed accounts or entities on behalf of certain clients may be terminated by such clients on as little as 30 days' prior written notice, or less in certain prescribed circumstances. In addition, we provide sub-advisory services to other investment advisers and managers. Such investment advisers and managers could terminate our sub-advisory agreements on as little as 30 days' prior written notice. In the case of any such terminations, the management and incentive fees we earn in connection with managing such account or company would immediately cease, which could result in a material adverse impact on our revenues. In addition, certain funds in our Public Markets business line are registered under the Investment Company Act as management investment companies. These funds and KKR Credit Advisors (US) LLC, which serves as their investment adviser, are subject to the Investment Company Act and the rules thereunder. The management fees we and our affiliate receive for managing registered investment companies and our BDC will generally be subject to contractual rights the company’s board of directors or the investment adviser has to terminate KKR’s or our affiliate’s management of an account on as short as 60 days’ prior notice. Termination of these agreements would reduce the fees we earn from the relevant funds, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Finally, certain of our investment management agreements with clients, including our agreements with KREF, Crescent energy and Global Atlantic, may be terminated by the client based on the terms stated in those agreements, which include the possibility to terminate due to materially poor investment management. Our stakes in our hedge fund partnerships subject us to numerous additional risks. Our stakes in our hedge fund partnerships subject us to numerous additional risks applicable to hedge funds and funds of funds, including the following: • Generally, there are few limitations on the execution of investment strategies of a hedge fund or fund of funds, which are subject to the sole discretion of the management company or the general partner of such funds; • A fund of funds is subject to risks related to the limited rights it has to withdraw, redeem, transfer or otherwise liquidate its investments from the underlying hedge funds or other funds in which it invests. It may be impossible or costly for hedge funds or such other funds to liquidate positions rapidly in order to meet margin calls, withdrawal requests, redemption requests or otherwise, particularly if there are other market participants seeking to dispose of similar assets at the same time or the relevant market is otherwise moving against a position or in the event of trading halts or daily price movement limits on the market or otherwise. In addition, terms of the governing documents of the relevant portfolio funds may limit withdrawal, redemption, transfer or liquidation of investments, including restrictions on the redemption of capital for an initial period, restrictions on the amount of redemptions and the frequency with which redemptions can be made and investment minimums that must be maintained. Portfolio funds also typically reserve the right to reduce ("gate") or suspend redemptions, to set aside ("side pocket") capital that cannot be redeemed for so long as an event or circumstance has not occurred or ceased to exist, respectively, and to satisfy redemptions by making distributions in-kind, under certain circumstances. Moreover, these risks may be exacerbated for funds of funds. For example, if a fund of funds were to invest a significant portion of its assets in two or more hedge funds that each had illiquid positions in the same issuer, the illiquidity risk for such fund of funds would be compounded. • Hedge funds may engage in short selling, which is subject to theoretically unlimited loss, in that the price of the underlying security could theoretically increase without limit, thus increasing the cost of buying those securities to cover the short position. There can be no assurance that the security necessary to cover a short position will be available for purchase. Purchasing securities to close out the short position can itself cause the prices of the securities to rise further, thereby exacerbating the loss; • Hedge funds may enter into CDS as investments or hedges. CDS involve greater risks than investing in the reference obligation directly. In addition to general market risks, CDS are subject to risks related to changes in interest rates, credit spreads, credit quality and expected recovery rates of the underlying credit instrument; • Hedge funds are exposed to the risk that a counterparty will not settle a transaction in accordance with its terms and conditions because of a dispute over the terms of the contract (whether or not bona fide) or because of a credit or liquidity problem, thus causing the fund to suffer a loss. Counterparty risk is accentuated for contracts with longer maturities where events may intervene to prevent settlement, or where the fund has concentrated its transactions with a single or small group of counterparties. Generally, hedge funds are not restricted from dealing with any particular counterparty or from concentrating any or all of their transactions with one counterparty. Moreover, the fund's internal 92 consideration of the creditworthiness of their counterparties may prove insufficient. The absence of a regulated market to facilitate settlement may increase the potential for losses; • The efficacy of investment and trading strategies depends largely on the ability to establish and maintain an overall market position in a combination of financial instruments. A hedge fund's trading orders may not be executed in a timely and efficient manner due to various circumstances, including systems failures or human error. In such event, the funds might only be able to acquire some but not all of the components of the position, or if the overall position were to need adjustment, the funds might not be able to make such adjustment. As a result, the funds would not be able to achieve the market position selected by the management company or general partner of such funds, and might incur a loss in liquidating their position; • Hedge funds may make investments that they do not advantageously dispose of prior to the date the applicable fund is dissolved, either by expiration of such fund's term or otherwise. Although we generally expect that investments will be disposed of prior to dissolution or be suitable for in-kind distribution at dissolution, these funds may have to sell, distribute or otherwise dispose of investments at a disadvantageous time as a result of dissolution. This would result in a lower than expected return on the investments and, perhaps, on the fund itself; • Hedge funds may rely on computer programs, internal infrastructure and services, quantitative models (both proprietary models and those supplied by third parties) and information and data provided by third parties to trade, clear and settle securities and other transactions, among other activities, that are critical to the oversight of certain funds' activities. If any such models, information or data prove to be incorrect or incomplete, any decisions made in reliance thereon could expose the funds to potential risks. Any hedging based on faulty models, information or data may prove to be unsuccessful and adversely impact a fund's profits; and • Hedge fund investments are also subject to risks relating to investments in commodities, futures, options and other derivatives, the prices of which are highly volatile and may be subject to the theoretically unlimited risk of loss in certain circumstances, including if the fund writes a call option. Price movements of commodities, futures and options contracts and payments pursuant to swap agreements are influenced by, among other things, interest rates, changing supply and demand relationships, trade, fiscal, monetary and exchange control programs and policies of governments and national and international political and economic events and policies. The value of futures, options and swap agreements also depends upon the price of the commodities underlying them. In addition, hedge funds' assets are subject to the risk of the failure of any of the exchanges on which their positions trade or of their clearinghouses or counterparties. Most U.S. commodities exchanges limit fluctuations in certain commodity interest prices during a single day by imposing "daily price fluctuation limits" or "daily limits," the existence of which may reduce liquidity or effectively curtail trading in particular markets. Hedge funds and funds of these hedge funds may also be subject to extensive regulations, including those of CFTC. To the extent the financial condition of Marshall Wace, PAAMCO Prisma or one or more other third-party hedge fund managers with which we have hedge fund partnerships is adversely affected by these risks, our revenues, AUM and FPAUM may also decline. Risks Related to Our Common Stock The Series I preferred stockholder's significant voting power limits the ability of holders of our common stock to influence our business. Holders of our common stock are entitled to vote with respect to: • Any amendment of our certificate of incorporation to change the par value of our common stock or the powers, preferences or special rights of our common stock in a way that would affect our common stock adversely; • A conversion of the legal entity form of KKR & Co. Inc.; and • A transfer, domestication or continuance of KKR & Co. Inc. to a foreign jurisdiction. • A sale, exchange or disposition of all or substantially all of our assets; • A merger, consolidation or other business combination; • An increase in the number of authorized shares of Series I preferred stock; and 93 • Certain amendments to our certificate of incorporation that would have a material adverse effect on our common stock relative to the other classes of our stock. Furthermore, holders of our common stock have the right to vote on the adoption of a new equity compensation plan any material amendment to an existing equity compensation plan, and an issuance of common stock if, based on the number of shares or the voting power outstanding before such issuance, more than 1% of our common stock is issued to our affiliates and other related parties or more than 20% of our common stock is issued in any transaction, subject to certain limited exemptions. In general, any matters that are subject to a vote of the holders of our common stock will require the approval of a majority in voting power of all our common stock and Series II preferred stock, voting together as a single class. As a result, KKR Holdings, the holder of our Series II preferred stock, will vote together with the holders of our common stock. As of February 24, 2022, there were 591,145,410 shares of common stock and 258,726,163 shares of Series II preferred stock issued and outstanding, giving holders of common stock 69.4% and KKR Holdings 30.4% of the total combined voting power on matters for which they are entitled to vote together as a single class. Because our Co-Executive Chairmen, when acting together, jointly control the general partner of KKR Holdings and thereby the vote of the shares of our Series II preferred stock held by KKR Holdings, our Co-Executive Chairmen are expected to be able to substantially influence the outcome of any matter submitted to a vote of our common stock. In addition, our Co-Executive Chairmen, when acting together, jointly control the Series I preferred stockholder and thereby the vote of the Series I preferred stock held by it. The vote of our Series I preferred stock will determine the outcome of all matters that are not listed above as being subject to a vote by our common stock. Our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws contain additional provisions affecting the holders of our common stock, including limitations on the calling of meetings of the stockholders and procedures for submitting proposals for business to be considered at meetings of the stockholders. In addition, any person that beneficially acquires 20% or more of any class of stock then outstanding without the consent of our board of directors (other than the Series I preferred stockholder or KKR Holdings L.P.) is unable to vote such stock on any matter submitted to such stockholders. For a more detailed description of our common stock, Series I preferred stock and Series II preferred stock, see "Description of Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934," which is filed as an exhibit to this report. In connection with the closing of the merger transactions contemplated by the Reorganization Agreement, our Series II preferred stock will be eliminated.  Following such merger transactions, but not later than December 31, 2026, we agreed in the Reorganization Agreement to (i) eliminate our Series I preferred stock and (ii) establish voting rights for our common stock on a one vote per share basis for all matters subject to a common stockholders’ vote under Delaware corporate law, including with respect to the election of directors.  For more information about the transactions contemplated by the Reorganization Agreement, see "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence—Reorganization Agreement." As a "controlled company," we qualify for some exemptions from the corporate governance and other requirements of the NYSE. Because KKR Management holds our Series I preferred stock, we are a "controlled company" within the meaning of the corporate governance standards of the NYSE. As a "controlled company" we have elected not to comply with certain corporate governance requirements of the NYSE, including the requirements: (i) that the listed company have a nominating and corporate governance committee that is composed entirely of independent directors, (ii) that the listed company have a compensation committee that is composed entirely of independent directors and (iii) that the compensation committee be required to consider certain independence factors when engaging compensation consultants, legal counsel and other committee advisers. Accordingly, holders of our common stock do not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the corporate governance requirements of the NYSE. Following the elimination of our Series I preferred stock on or before December 31, 2026 pursuant to the Reorganization Agreement, we will no longer be able to rely on the control of our company by the Series I preferred stockholder to be exempted from the corporate governance requirements of the NYSE.   For more information about the transactions contemplated by the Reorganization Agreement, see "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence—Reorganization Agreement." 94 We are not required to comply with certain provisions of U.S. securities laws relating to proxy statements and other annual meeting materials. We are not required to file proxy statements or information statements under Section 14 of the Exchange Act, unless a vote of holders of our common stock is required. Accordingly, legal causes of action and remedies under Section 14 of the Exchange Act for inadequate or misleading information in proxy statements will not be generally available to holders of our common stock. In addition, we will generally not be subject to the "say-on-pay" and "say-on-frequency" provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. As a result, our stockholders will not have an opportunity to provide a non-binding vote on the compensation of our named executive officers. Moreover, holders of our common stock will be unable to bring matters before our annual meeting of stockholders or nominate directors at such meeting, nor can they generally submit stockholder proposals under Rule 14a-8 of the Exchange Act.  Following the elimination of our Series I preferred stock on or before December 31, 2026 pursuant to the Reorganization Agreement, we expect to be required to comply with the foregoing provisions of the U.S. securities laws.  For more information about the transactions contemplated by the Reorganization Agreement, see "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence—Reorganization Agreement." Our certificate of incorporation states that the Series I preferred stockholder is under no obligation to consider the separate interests of the other stockholders and contains provisions limiting the liability of the Series I preferred stockholder. Subject to applicable law, our certificate of incorporation contains provisions limiting the duties owed by the Series I preferred stockholder and contains provisions allowing the Series I preferred stockholder to favor its own interests and the interests of its controlling persons over us and the holders of our common stock. Our certificate of incorporation contains provisions stating that the Series I preferred stockholder is under no obligation to consider the separate interests of the other stockholders (including the tax consequences to such stockholders) in deciding whether or not to authorize us to take (or decline to authorize us to take) any action as well as provisions stating that the Series I preferred stockholder shall not be liable to the other stockholders for damages or equitable relief for any losses, liabilities or benefits not derived by such stockholders in connection with such decisions. See "—Potential conflicts of interest may arise among the Series I preferred stockholder and the holders of our common stock." The Series I preferred stockholder will not be liable to KKR or holders of our common stock for any acts, or omissions unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment determining that the Series I preferred stockholder acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct and we have also agreed to indemnify the Series I preferred stockholder to a similar extent. Even if there is deemed to be a breach of the obligations set forth in our certificate of incorporation, our certificate of incorporation provides that the Series I preferred stockholder will not be liable to us or the holders of our common stock for any acts or omissions unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that the Series I preferred stockholder or its officers and directors acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct. These provisions are detrimental to the holders of our common stock because they restrict the remedies available to stockholders for actions of the Series I preferred stockholder. In addition, we have agreed to indemnify the Series I preferred stockholder and its affiliates and any member, partner, tax matters partner (as defined in U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), as in effect prior to 2018), partnership representative (as defined in the Code), officer, director, employee agent, fiduciary or trustee of any of KKR or its subsidiaries, KKR Group Partnership, the Series I preferred stockholder or any of our or the Series I preferred stockholder’s affiliates and certain other specified persons (collectively, "Indemnitees"), to the fullest extent permitted by law, against any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities, joint or several, expenses (including legal fees and expenses), judgments, fines, penalties, interest, settlements or other amounts incurred by any Indemnitee. We have agreed to provide this indemnification unless there has been a final and non-appealable judgment by a court of competent jurisdiction determining that the Indemnitee acted in bad faith or engaged in fraud or willful misconduct. We have also agreed to provide this indemnification for criminal proceedings. The provision of our certificate of incorporation requiring exclusive venue in the state and federal courts located in the State of Delaware or federal district courts of the United States for certain types of lawsuits may have the effect of discouraging lawsuits against us and our directors, officers and stockholders. Our certificate of incorporation requires that (i) any derivative action, suit or proceeding brought on behalf of KKR, (ii) any action, suit or proceeding asserting a claim of breach of a fiduciary duty owed by any current or former director, officer, employee or stockholder of KKR to KKR or KKR's stockholders, (iii) any action, suit or proceeding asserting a claim arising pursuant to any provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law ("DGCL"), our certificate of incorporation or our bylaws 95 or as to which the DGCL confers jurisdiction on the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware or (iv) any action, suit or proceeding asserting a claim governed by the internal affairs doctrine may only be brought in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware or, if such court does not have subject matter jurisdiction thereof, the federal district court located in the State of Delaware. In addition, the federal district courts of the United States is the exclusive forum for the resolution of any action, suit or proceeding asserting a cause of action arising under the Securities Act and the Exchange Act. This provision may have the effect of discouraging lawsuits against us and our directors, officers and stockholders. The market price and trading volume of our common stock may be volatile, which could result in rapid and substantial losses for our common stockholders. The market price of our common stock may be highly volatile, could be subject to wide fluctuations and could decline significantly in the future. In addition, the trading volume in our common stock may fluctuate and cause significant price variations to occur. If the market price of our common stock declines significantly, you may be unable to sell your shares at an attractive price, if at all. Some of the factors that could negatively affect the price of our common stock or result in fluctuations in the price or trading volume of our common stock include: • variations in our quarterly operating results, including the accrual and payment of corporate taxes following our conversion to a corporation, which may be substantial; • changes in the amount of our dividends or our dividend policy; • taking a long-term perspective on making investment, operational and strategic decisions, which may result in significant and unpredictable variations in our quarterly returns; • failure to meet analysts' earnings estimates or any publicly disclosed goals or targets; • publication of research reports about us or the investment management industry or the failure of securities analysts to cover our common stock sufficiently; • additions or departures of our key management and investment personnel; • adverse market reaction to any acquisitions, joint ventures, reorganizations and other transactions, including incurrence of debt or issuance of securities in the future; • changes in market valuations of similar companies; • speculation in the press or investment community; • changes or proposed changes in laws or regulations or differing interpretations thereof affecting our business or enforcement of these laws and regulations, or announcements relating to these matters; • a concentrated ownership of our common stock or ownership by short-term investors; • a lack of liquidity in the trading of our common stock; • adverse publicity about the investment management or private equity industry generally or individual scandals, specifically; and • general market and economic conditions. An investment in our common stock is not an investment in any of our funds or other businesses operated by our subsidiaries, and the assets and revenues of our funds are not directly available to us. Our common stock is only securities of KKR & Co. Inc., the holding company of the KKR business. While our historical consolidated financial statements include financial information, including assets and revenues, of certain funds on a consolidated basis, and our future financial statements will continue to consolidate certain of these funds, such assets and revenues are available to the fund and not to us except to a limited extent through management fees, carried interest or other incentive income, distributions and other proceeds arising from agreements with funds, as discussed in more detail in this report. Additionally, given our holding company structure, an investment in our common stock is not an investment in any other 96 businesses that may be operated by our subsidiaries. See "Business—Organizational Structure" and "—Risks Related to Our Organizational Structure—We intend to pay periodic dividends to the holders of our common stock and preferred stock, but our ability to do so may be limited by our holding company structure and contractual restrictions." Our common stock price may decline due to the large number of shares eligible for future sale or for exchange, and issued or issuable pursuant to our equity incentive plans or as consideration in acquisitions. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of sales of a large number of shares in the market or the perception that such sales could occur. These sales, or the possibility that these sales may occur, also might make it more difficult for us to sell shares of common stock in the future at a time and at a price that we deem appropriate. As of February 24, 2022, we have 591,145,410 shares of common stock outstanding, which amount excludes shares beneficially owned by KKR Holdings in the form of KKR Group Partnership Units discussed below and shares available for future issuance under our 2019 Equity Incentive Plan. As of February 24, 2022, KKR Holdings owns 258,726,163 KKR Group Partnership Units that may be exchanged, on a quarterly basis, for shares of our common stock on a one-for-one basis, subject to customary conversion rate adjustments for stock splits, stock distributions and reclassifications. The market price of our common stock could decline as a result of the exchange or the perception that an exchange may occur of a large number of KKR Group Partnership Units for shares of our common stock. These exchanges, or the possibility that these exchanges may occur, also might make it more difficult for holders of our common stock to sell shares of our common stock in the future at a time and at a price that they deem appropriate. In addition, we will continue to issue additional shares of our common stock pursuant to our 2019 Equity Incentive Plan. See "Risks Related to Our Business—If we cannot retain and motivate our employees and other key personnel and recruit, retain and motivate new employees and other key personnel, our business, results of operations and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected." As of December 31, 2021, 70,812,698 shares of common stock were available for issuance in respect of outstanding awards and the grant of future awards, representing 15% of the aggregate number of shares of common stock and KKR Group Partnership Units (excluding KKR Group Partnership Units held by KKR & Co. Inc. or its subsidiaries) outstanding (together, "Diluted Common Shares") at the close of business on December 31, 2021, minus the number of shares underlying any outstanding equity awards granted under our 2019 Equity Incentive Plan that have not yet been delivered upon vesting. Under the 2019 Equity Incentive Plan, on the first day of each fiscal year, the number of shares of common stock available for issuance of future awards under our 2019 Equity Incentive Plan will be adjusted upwards to 15% of the aggregate number of Diluted Common Shares outstanding at the close of business on the last day of the immediately preceding fiscal year, minus the number of shares underlying any outstanding equity awards granted under our 2019 Equity Incentive Plan that have not yet been delivered upon vesting. In addition, previously issued awards that were canceled or are canceled in the future, or in certain cases, withheld in respect of tax withholding obligations, are or will become available for further grant under the terms of our 2019 Equity Incentive Plan. See "Executive Compensation—KKR & Co. Inc. Equity Incentive Plan." In the past, we have issued and sold our common stock to generate cash proceeds to pay withholding taxes, social benefit payments or similar payments payable by us in respect of awards granted pursuant to our Equity Incentive Plans or the amount of cash delivered in respect of awards granted pursuant to our Equity Incentive Plans that are settled in cash instead of shares of common stock. We may issue and sell shares of our common stock in the future for similar purposes or for any other purpose we deem to be appropriate. We have used and in the future may continue to use our common stock or securities convertible, exchangeable or exercisable into our common stock as consideration in acquisitions and strategic investments. For example, in connection with the Global Atlantic acquisition, we issued 23.0 million shares of Series C Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock; in connection with KKR's acquisition of KFN, we issued the equivalent of approximately 104.3 million shares of our common stock; in connection with KKR's acquisition of Avoca, we issued the equivalent of approximately 4.9 million shares of our common stock; and in connection with KKR's initial acquisition and subsequent increase in ownership of Marshall Wace, we issued the equivalent of approximately 23.0 million shares of our common stock. In addition, in connection with other investments, we may make certain future contingent payments in the form of common stock. If our valuations of these transactions are not accurate or if the value of these acquisitions and investments is not realized, the value of our common stock as well as our dividend per share of common stock may decline. Our issuance of preferred stock may cause the price of our common stock to decline, which may negatively impact our common stockholders. Our board of directors is authorized to issue series of shares of preferred stock without any action on the part of our stockholders and, with respect to each such series, fix, without stockholder approval (except as may be required by our 97 certificate of incorporation or any certificate of designation relating to any outstanding series of preferred stock), the designation of such series, the powers (including voting powers), preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, of such series of preferred stock and the number of shares of such series. Any series of preferred stock we may issue in the future will rank senior to all of our common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon our liquidation, dissolution, or winding-up. If we issue cumulative preferred stock in the future that has preference over our common stock with respect to the payment of dividends or upon our liquidation, dissolution, or winding up, or if we issue preferred stock with voting rights that dilute the voting power of our common stockholders in the instances in which they have the right to vote, the market price of our common stock could decrease. Similarly, the limited partnership agreement of KKR Group Partnership authorizes the general partner of KKR Group Partnership to issue an unlimited number of additional securities of KKR Group Partnership with such designations, preferences, rights, powers and duties that are different from, and may be senior to, those applicable to the KKR Group Partnership Units, and which may be exchangeable for KKR Group Partnership Units. For example, in March and June of 2016, KKR issued 13,800,000 Series A preferred units (which have subsequently been converted to shares of Series A Preferred Stock) and 6,200,000 Series B preferred units (which have subsequently been converted to shares of Series B Preferred Stock), respectively, and in August of 2020, KKR issued 23,000,000 shares of Series C Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock, and in connection with such issuances, KKR Group Partnership issued preferred units with economic terms designed to mirror KKR's respective preferred units. Our certificate of incorporation also provides us with a right to acquire all of the then outstanding shares of common stock under specified circumstances, which may adversely affect the price of our common stock and the ability of holders of our common stock to participate in further growth in our stock price. Our certificate of incorporation provides that, if at any time, either (i) less than 10% of the total shares of any class our stock then outstanding (other than Series I preferred stock, Series II preferred stock and other series of preferred stock) is held by persons other than the Series I preferred stockholder and its affiliates or (ii) we are subjected to registration under the provisions of the Investment Company Act, we may exercise our right to call and purchase all of the then outstanding shares of common stock held by persons other than the Series I preferred stockholder or its affiliates or assign this right to the Series I preferred stockholder or any of its affiliates. As a result, a stockholder may have his or her shares of our common stock purchased from him or her at an undesirable time or price and in a manner which adversely affects the ability of a stockholder to participate in further growth in our stock price. Risks Related to Our Organizational Structure Potential conflicts of interest may arise among the Series I preferred stockholder and the holders of our common stock. Our Co-Founders, who also serve as our Co-Executive Chairmen, jointly control the Series I preferred stockholder when acting together. As a result, conflicts of interest may arise among the Series I preferred stockholder and its controlling persons, on the one hand, and us and the holders of our common stock, on the other hand. The Series I preferred stockholder has the ability to appoint and remove members of our board of directors and has the right to approve certain corporate actions as specified in our certificate of incorporation (in addition to approval by our board of directors). See “—Certain actions by our board of directors require the approval of the Series I preferred stockholder, which is controlled by our Co-Executive Chairmen when acting together.” If the holders of our common stock are dissatisfied with the performance of our board of directors, they have no ability to remove any of our directors, with or without cause. Through its ability to elect our board of directors and its approval rights over certain corporate transactions, the Series I preferred stockholder may be deemed to control our business and affairs, including influence over the amount and timing of KKR Group Partnership's investments and dispositions, indebtedness and cash expenditures (including those relating to compensation, issuances of additional partner interests, tax liabilities and amounts of reserves), each of which can affect the amount of cash that is available for distribution to holders of KKR Group Partnership Units. In addition, conflicts may arise relating to the selection, structuring and disposition of investments and other transactions, declaring dividends and other distributions and other matters due to the fact that our senior principals indirectly hold KKR Group Partnership Units through KKR Holdings, which is a pass-through entity that is not subject to corporate income taxation. Under the Reorganization Agreement, our Co-Founders have agreed not to transfer the joint control of the Series I preferred stockholder prior to the Sunset Date (which is defined in the Reorganization Agreement to be a date not later than December 31, 2026), except that their control may transfer to the then Chief Executive Officer or Co-Chief Executive Officers at the time of their earlier death or permanent disability.  In addition, the Series I preferred stockholder has agreed not to 98 transfer its ownership of the sole share of Series I preferred stock prior to the Sunset Date.  If ownership of the sole share of Series I preferred stock were to be transferred, the new owner of the sole share of Series I preferred stock and the directors they appoint to our board of directors could have a different philosophy for the management of our business, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, operations or prospects. Certain actions by our board of directors require the approval of the Series I preferred stockholder, which is controlled by our Co-Executive Chairmen when acting together. Although the affirmative vote of a majority of our directors is required for any action to be taken by our board of directors, certain specified actions will also require the approval of the Series I preferred stockholder, which is controlled by our Co-Executive Chairmen when acting together. These actions consist of the following: • the entry into a debt financing arrangement by us in an amount in excess of 10% of our then existing long-term indebtedness (other than the entry into certain intercompany debt financing arrangements); • the issuance by us or our subsidiaries of any securities that would (i) represent, after such issuance, or upon conversion, exchange or exercise, as the case may be, at least 5% on a fully diluted, as converted, exchanged or exercised basis, of any class of our or their equity securities or (ii) have designations, preferences, rights, priorities or powers that are more favorable than those of our common stock; • the adoption by us of a shareholder rights plan; • the amendment of our certificate of incorporation, certain provisions of our bylaws relating to our board of directors and officers or the operating agreement of KKR Group Partnership; • the exchange or disposition of all or substantially all of our assets or the assets of KKR Group Partnership; • the merger, sale or other combination of our company or KKR Group Partnership with or into any other person; • the transfer, mortgage, pledge, hypothecation or grant of a security interest in all or substantially all of the assets of KKR Group Partnership; • the appointment or removal of our Chief Executive Officer or a Co-Chief Executive Officer; • the termination of our employment of any of our officers or the officers of any of our subsidiaries or the termination of the association of a partner with any of our subsidiaries, in each case, without cause; • the liquidation or dissolution of us or KKR Group Partnership; and • the withdrawal, removal or substitution of any person as the general partner of KKR Group Partnership or the transfer of beneficial ownership of all or any part of a general partner interest in KKR Group Partnership to any person other than a wholly-owned subsidiary. We intend to pay periodic dividends to the holders of our common stock and preferred stock, but our ability to do so may be limited by our holding company structure and contractual restrictions. We intend to pay cash dividends on a quarterly basis. We are a holding company and have no material assets other than the KKR Group Partnership Units that we hold through a wholly-owned subsidiary and have no independent means of generating income. Accordingly, we intend to cause KKR Group Partnership to make distributions on KKR Group Partnership Units in order to provide us with sufficient amounts to fund dividends we may declare. If KKR Group Partnership makes such distributions, other holders of KKR Group Partnership Units, including KKR Holdings, will be entitled to receive equivalent distributions pro rata based on their KKR Group Partnership Units. The declaration and payment of dividends to our stockholders will be at the sole discretion of our board of directors, and our dividend policy may be changed at any time. The declaration and payment of dividends is subject to legal, contractual and regulatory restrictions on the payment of dividends by us or our subsidiaries, including restrictions contained in our debt agreements, the terms of our certificate of incorporation, and such other factors as the board of directors considers relevant including, among others: our available cash and current and anticipated cash needs, including funding of investment commitments and debt service and future debt repayment obligations; general economic and business conditions; our strategic plans and prospects; our results of operations and financial condition; and our capital requirements. Under Section 170 of the DGCL, our board of directors may only declare and pay dividends either out of our surplus (as defined in DGCL) or in case there is no such surplus, out of our net profits for the fiscal year in which the dividend is declared and/or the preceding fiscal year. However, dividends may not be declared out of net profits if our capital, computed in accordance with DGCL, shall have 99 been diminished by depreciation in the value of our property, or by losses, or otherwise, to an amount less than the aggregate amount of the capital represented by the issued and outstanding stock of all classes having a preference upon the distribution of assets. Furthermore, by paying cash dividends rather than investing that cash in our businesses, we risk slowing the pace of our growth, or not having a sufficient amount of cash to fund our operations, new investments or unanticipated capital expenditures, should the need arise. Our preferred stock ranks senior to our common stock with respect to the payment of dividends. Unless all accumulated and unpaid dividends on the Series C Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock for all preceding dividend periods have been declared and paid or declared and set apart for payment, we may not declare or pay or set apart payment for dividends on any class of stock of KKR & Co. Inc. that are junior to the Series C Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock, including our common stock, and we may not repurchase any such junior stock. Dividends on the Series C Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock are discretionary and cumulative. Holders of preferred stock will only receive dividends on their shares of preferred stock when, as and if declared by our board of directors. If dividends on the Series C Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock have not been declared and paid for the equivalent of six or more quarterly dividend periods, whether or not consecutive, holders of such preferred stock, together as a class with holders of any other series of parity stock with like voting rights, will be entitled to vote for the election of two additional directors to our board of directors. When quarterly dividends have been declared and paid or declared and set apart for payment, in the case of the Series C Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock, in full, the right of the holders of preferred stock and such parity stock to elect these two additional directors will cease, the terms of office of these two directors will forthwith terminate and the number of directors constituting our board of directors will be reduced accordingly. Additional risks related to the Series C Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock are contained in the prospectus supplement relating to the securities. We will be required to pay our principals for most of the benefits relating to our use of tax attributes we receive from prior and certain future exchanges of our common stock for KKR Group Partnership Units and related transactions, and the timing and value of these tax attributes differ from those of our restricted stock units. We are required to acquire KKR Group Partnership Units from time to time pursuant to our exchange agreement with KKR Holdings. Certain of these exchanges are expected to result in an increase in our share of the tax basis of the tangible and intangible assets of KKR Group Partnership, primarily attributable to a portion of the goodwill inherent in our business that would not otherwise have been available. This increase in tax basis may increase (for tax purposes) depreciation and amortization and therefore reduce the amount of income tax we would otherwise be required to pay in the future. This increase in tax basis may also decrease gain (or increase loss) on future dispositions of certain capital assets to the extent tax basis is allocated to those capital assets. We have entered into a tax receivable agreement with KKR Holdings.  Except as provided in the Reorganization Agreement that we entered into in October 2021, as discussed further below, the tax receivable agreement requires us to pay to an affiliate of KKR Holdings and to current and former principals who have exchanged KKR Holdings units for shares of common stock as transferees of KKR Group Partnership Units, 85% of the amount of cash tax savings, if any, in U.S. federal, state and local income tax that we realize as a result of this increase in tax basis, as well as 85% of the amount of any such savings we actually realize as a result of increases in tax basis that arise due to future payments under the agreement. These payment obligations are obligations of KKR & Co. Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiary and not of KKR Group Partnership. The tax receivable agreement does not apply to the restricted holdings units that are issued under our 2019 Equity Incentive Plan. These restricted holdings units are not related to KKR Holdings. While the tax receivable agreement does not apply to restricted holdings units issued under our 2019 Equity Incentive Plan (and therefore we will receive 100% of any tax benefits arising from the exchange of restricted holdings units for shares of our common stock), any tax benefits we realize from the exchange of KKR Holdings units or restricted holdings units would be deferred until the holders thereof elect to exchange such units for shares of our common stock. The timing of the tax benefit is different with respect to our restricted stock units issued under our Equity Incentive Plans, where we realize any tax benefit at the time of vesting, which is generally earlier than the time of exchange of KKR Holdings units or restricted holdings units. As a result, the actual increase in tax basis and the amount of tax savings in any given year will vary depending upon a number of factors, including the timing of exchanges, the number of units exchanged, the price of our common stock at the time of the exchange, the extent to which such exchanges are taxable and the amount and timing of our taxable income. We expect that the payments that we may be required to make to an affiliate of KKR Holdings or to our current or former principals under the tax receivable agreement could be substantial. We recorded $399.2 million in our consolidated statements of financial condition as of December 31, 2021, representing the estimated aggregate future payment amount, on an undiscounted basis, under the tax receivable agreement as of such date for previously exchanged KKR Holdings units. See "Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Liquidity—Other Liquidity Needs—Contractual Obligations, Commitments and Contingencies." Following the announcement of the Reorganization Agreement in October 2021, 12.3 million KKR Holdings units were exchanged in December 2021, which realized aggregate cash tax savings of $195.2 million, of which KKR benefited from 15% 100 of the aggregate cash savings and 85% was recorded in our financial statements as an amount due to KKR Holdings under the tax receivable agreement.  As of December 31, 2021, there are 258.7 million KKR Holdings units that remain available for exchange into shares of our common stock, and none of the 185 million KKR Holdings units beneficially owned by our executive officers were submitted for exchange following the announcement of the Reorganization Agreement.  The Reorganization Agreement provides that, subject to the completion of the mergers contemplated by the Reorganization Agreement, there will be no further exchanges of KKR Holdings units following the completion of such mergers, which is expected to occur in 2022, subject to the receipt of all requisite regulatory approvals.  Following the completion of such mergers, any KKR Holdings units that have not been previously exchanged will no longer be eligible for payments under the tax receivable agreement.  Any KKR Holdings units that were exchanged prior to the completion of such mergers will continue to be entitled to receive payments pursuant to the tax receivable agreement. We may need to incur debt to finance payments under the tax receivable agreement to the extent our cash resources are insufficient to meet our obligations under the tax receivable agreement as a result of timing discrepancies or otherwise. Payments under the tax receivable agreement will be based upon the tax reporting positions that we will determine. We are not aware of any issue that would cause the IRS to challenge a tax basis increase. However, neither KKR Holdings nor our current or former principals will reimburse us for any payments previously made under the tax receivable agreement if such tax basis increase, or the tax benefits we claim arising from such increase, is successfully challenged by the IRS. As a result, in certain circumstances, payments to KKR Holdings or our current or former principals under the tax receivable agreement could be in excess of our cash tax savings. Our ability to achieve benefits from any tax basis increase, and the payments to be made under the tax receivable agreement, will depend upon a number of factors, as discussed above, including the timing and amount of our future income. If we were deemed to be an "investment company" subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act, applicable restrictions could make it impractical for us to continue our business as contemplated and could have a material adverse effect on our business. A person will generally be deemed to be an "investment company" for purposes of the Investment Company Act if: • it is or holds itself out as being engaged primarily, or proposes to engage primarily, in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities; or • absent an applicable exemption, it owns or proposes to acquire investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of the value of its total assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis. We regard ourselves as an investment management firm. We are engaged primarily in the business of providing investment management services and, through Global Atlantic, the insurance business, and not in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities. Accordingly, we do not believe that we are an "orthodox" investment company as defined in Section 3(a)(1)(A) of the Investment Company Act and described in the first bullet point above. With regard to the provision described in the second bullet point above, we have no material assets other than our equity interests in our sole subsidiary, which in turn has no material assets other than general partner interests in KKR Group Partnership. Through these interests, we indirectly are vested with all management and control over KKR Group Partnership. We do not believe our equity interests in our subsidiary are investment securities, and we believe that the capital interests of the general partners of our funds in their respective funds are neither securities nor investment securities. Accordingly, based on our determination, less than 40% of our total assets (exclusive of U.S. government securities and cash items) on an unconsolidated basis are comprised of assets that could be considered investment securities. However, our subsidiaries have a significant number of investment securities, and we expect to make investments in other investment securities from time to time. We monitor these holdings regularly to confirm our continued compliance with the 40% test described in the second bullet point above. The need to comply with this 40% test may cause us to restrict our business and subsidiaries with respect to the assets in which we can invest and/or the types of securities we may issue, sell investment securities, including on unfavorable terms, acquire assets or businesses that could change the nature of our business or potentially take other actions that may be viewed as adverse by the holders of our common stock, in order to ensure conformity with exceptions provided by, and rules and regulations promulgated under, the Investment Company Act. The Investment Company Act and the rules and regulations thereunder contain detailed parameters for the organization and operation of investment companies. Among other things, the Investment Company Act and the rules and regulations thereunder limit or prohibit transactions with affiliates, impose limitations on the issuance of debt and equity securities, generally prohibit the issuance of options and impose certain governance requirements. We intend to conduct our operations so that we will not be deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act. If anything were to happen which would cause us to 101 be deemed to be an investment company under the Investment Company Act, requirements imposed by the Investment Company Act, including limitations on our capital structure, ability to transact business with affiliates and ability to compensate key employees, would make it impractical for us to continue our business as currently conducted, impair the agreements and arrangements between and among us, including KKR Group Partnership, and KKR Holdings, and materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, we may be required to limit the amount of investments that we make as a principal, potentially divest of our investments or otherwise conduct our business in a manner that does not subject us to the registration and other requirements of the Investment Company Act. With respect to our subsidiary Global Atlantic, we believe it is not and does not propose to be primarily engaged in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities, and we do not believe that Global Atlantic has held itself out as such.  Global Atlantic is primarily engaged through its wholly-owned insurance company subsidiaries in the business of writing insurance, and on an unconsolidated basis Global Atlantic expects that in excess of 65% of Global Atlantic's gross income will be derived from its wholly-owned insurance company subsidiaries. Global Atlantic's holding companies do not own or propose to own investment securities in excess of the 40% test. Global Atlantic's insurance company subsidiaries intend to operate so that in excess of 65% of their business is derived from insurance business, meaning such entities are exempt from designation as an investment company under Section 3(c)(6) of the Investment Company Act. If Global Atlantic were deemed an investment company, restrictions imposed by the Investment Company Act, including limitations on capital structure and ability to transact with affiliates, will likely make it impractical for Global Atlantic to continue its business operations as currently conducted. Global Atlantic may need to take significant actions to avoid registration as an investment company. With respect to our subsidiary KKR Financial Holdings ("KFN"), we believe it is not and does not propose to be primarily engaged in the business of investing, reinvesting or trading in securities, and we do not believe that KFN has held itself out as such. KFN conducts its operations primarily through its majority-owned subsidiaries, each of which is either outside of the definition of an investment company as defined in the Investment Company Act or excepted from such definition under the Investment Company Act. KFN monitors its holdings regularly to confirm its continued compliance with the 40% test described in the second bullet point above, and restricts its subsidiaries with respect to the assets in which each of them can invest and/or the types of securities each of them may issue in order to ensure conformity with exceptions provided by, and rules and regulations promulgated under, the Investment Company Act. If the SEC were to disagree with KFN's treatment of one or more of its subsidiaries as being excepted from the Investment Company Act, with its determination that one or more of its other holdings are not investment securities for purposes of the 40% test, or with its determinations as to the nature of its business or the manner in which it holds itself out, KFN and/or one or more of its subsidiaries could be required either (i) to change substantially the manner in which it conducts its operations to avoid being subject to the Investment Company Act or (ii) to register as an investment company. Either of these would likely have a material adverse effect on KFN, its ability to service its indebtedness and to make distributions on its shares, and on the market price of its securities, and could thereby materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. In 2011, the SEC published an advance notice of proposed rulemaking regarding Rule 3a-7 under the Investment Company Act and a concept release seeking information on Section 3(c)(5)(C) of the Investment Company Act, two provisions with which KKR's subsidiaries, including KFN, must comply under the 40% test described above. Among the issues for which the SEC has requested comment is whether Rule 3a-7 should be modified so that parent companies of subsidiaries that rely on Rule 3a-7 should treat their interests in such subsidiaries as investment securities for purposes of the 40% test. The SEC is also seeking information about the nature of entities that invest in mortgages and mortgage-related pools and how the SEC staff's interpretive positions in connection with Section 3(c)(5)(C) affect these entities. Although no further action has been taken by the SEC, any guidance or action from the SEC or its staff, including changes that the SEC may ultimately propose and adopt to the way Rule 3a-7 applies to entities or new or modified interpretive positions related to Section 3(c)(5)(C), could further inhibit KKR's ability, or the ability of any of its subsidiaries, including KFN, to pursue its current or future operating strategies, which could have a material adverse effect on us. We may from time to time undertake internal reorganizations that may adversely impact our business and results of operations. In October 2021, we announced the transactions contemplated by the Reorganization Agreement. On July 1, 2018, we converted from a Delaware limited partnership to a Delaware corporation, and on January 1, 2020, we completed an internal reorganization to, among other changes, combine KKR Management Holdings L.P. and KKR International Holdings L.P., which were former intermediate holdings companies for KKR's business, with another intermediate holding company, KKR Fund Holdings L.P., which changed its name to KKR Group Partnership L.P. From time to time, we may undertake other internal reorganizations or make other changes in an effort to simplify our organizational structure, streamline our operations, increase our stockholder base or for other operational reasons. These reorganizations or changes could be disruptive to our 102 business, result in significant expense, require regulatory approvals, and may not be successful in achieving its objectives or fail to result in the intended or expected benefits, any of which could adversely impact our business and results of operations. Anti-takeover provisions in our organizational documents could delay or prevent a change of control. Certain provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that a stockholder may consider favorable by, for example: • permitting our board of directors to issue one or more series of preferred stock; • requiring advance notice for stockholder proposals and nominations if they are ever permitted by applicable law; and • placing limitations on convening stockholder meetings. These provisions may also discourage acquisition proposals or delay or prevent a change in control.  See "Description of Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934," which is filed as an exhibit to this report. Risks Related to Global Atlantic Business Risks Related to Global Atlantic The Global Atlantic acquisition may not achieve its intended benefits, and certain difficulties, costs or expenses may outweigh such intended benefits. We may be unable to realize all of the anticipated benefits of the Global Atlantic acquisition, which closed on February 1, 2021. Achieving the anticipated benefits, including the acquisition's continued impact on KKR’s AUM, FPAUM, book value, fee related earnings and after-tax distributable earnings, remains subject to a number of uncertainties, including whether the Global Atlantic business will continue to operate and grow in the manner we anticipate in 2022 and in the future. While Global Atlantic has operated, and is expected to continue to operate as a separate business, the acquisition may result in material difficulties, costs, and expenses, including: • incremental operating costs arising from the integration of certain standards, controls, procedures and policies, including Global Atlantic's obligations to provide financial reporting as a subsidiary of a public company; • unknown potential liabilities of Global Atlantic, including those for which we may become responsible or take responsibility; and • potential liabilities arising from claims by roll-over investors or co-investors of Global Atlantic, who owned approximately 40% of Global Atlantic prior to KKR's acquisition of Global Atlantic. Importantly, a significant portion of the benefit of the acquisition is anticipated to come from KKR’s role as investment adviser for Global Atlantic’s insurance subsidiaries.  Prior to KKR's acquisition of Global Atlantic, KKR had not managed the entirety of the investment assets of an insurance company or assets of insurance companies at this scale, and we may not achieve our respective objectives. In addition, our investment management will require the assistance of Global Atlantic employees, with whom we have not worked prior to the acquisition. Many of the foregoing factors will be outside of our control and any one of them could result in increased costs, decreases in the amount of expected revenues and diversion of management's time and energy, which could adversely affect our and Global Atlantic's business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, other events outside of our control, including, but not limited to, political climate, the severity and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic, and regulatory or legislative changes, could also adversely affect our ability to realize the anticipated benefits from the acquisition. As a result of these risks, we may fail to realize some or all of the anticipated benefits of the acquisition or in an amount sufficient to offset the potential difficulties, costs and expenses arising from the acquisition. Accordingly, stockholders and potential investors should not place undue reliance on our expectation of the anticipated benefits from the acquisition. In addition, while we expect Global Atlantic to continue to operate as a separate business with its existing brands and management team, Global Atlantic adds significantly to the scale and scope of KKR's overall business and operations. Although KKR has owned insurance companies as investments in its funds in the past, KKR has never previously owned an insurance company as a majority-owned subsidiary. Acquiring Global Atlantic changed the risks to which we are subject and  may give rise to new and unexpected operational risks that could offset some of the benefits we expected from the acquisition. 103 Inclusion of Global Atlantic's business as a consolidated subsidiary of KKR results in certain incremental risks to KKR, which risks are material and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. The addition of Global Atlantic’s business may also exacerbate certain existing risks to KKR's business. Global Atlantic operates its business as a consolidated subsidiary of KKR. Prior to the acquisition of Global Atlantic, KKR had not engaged in a business similar to Global Atlantic, and Global Atlantic's business and structure pose incremental risks to KKR, many of which may be material. These risks include, but are not limited to: • business operational risks, including macroeconomic changes, interest rate and credit spread fluctuations and the impact of such changes on interest-sensitive products, the competitive nature of the insurance and reinsurance industry, use of derivative instruments within its risk management strategy, the illiquidity of certain investment assets and the potential difficulty of selling and/or realizing full value on such assets if necessary, the performance of third-party service providers, the use of distribution partners rather than captive or proprietary distribution or direct sales, differences between policyholder behavior estimates, reserve assumptions and actual claims experience, volatility in net income under GAAP due to Global Atlantic's funds withheld coinsurance transactions and expected increased volatility in its GAAP financial statements due to the implementation of long-duration targeted improvements in 2023; • risks related to Global Atlantic's growth strategy, which includes reinsurance of insurance obligations written by unaffiliated insurance companies, the ability to identify attractive insurance markets, reinsurance opportunities, or investments with returns as favorable as those obtained historically, and ability to effectively manage its growth; • regulatory risks relating to the insurance and reinsurance industries, including capital regulations, laws or regulations which impose meaningful limitations on its business, fiduciary or best interest standards in connection with the sale of Global Atlantic's products, regulations relating to reserves and obligations to pay assessments through guaranty associations, changes in statutory accounting principles, heightened privacy regulations, and uncertainty regarding future changes in regulations; • litigation and regulatory risks, relating to the insurance and reinsurance industries; • tax risks, including those associated with The Global Atlantic Financial Group LLC's status as a non-U.S. taxpayer and challenges to such status and tax risks associated with Global Atlantic's corporate structure, including risks to retaining its non-U.S. taxpayer companies' exemption from corporate taxation in Bermuda; • risks related to guarantees within certain of Global Atlantic's insurance products; • any gaps in Global Atlantic's risk management policies and procedures, which may leave it exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk; • risks associated with the business Global Atlantic reinsures and business it cedes to reinsurers; and • risks associated with not owning 100% of the economic interests of a subsidiary while owning 100% of its voting interests. Each of these risks could have material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the Global Atlantic acquisition may heighten the potential adverse effects on our business, operating results, cash flows or financial condition described in other risk factors contained in this report, including, but not limited to: • risks related to changes in general, economic, market and political conditions, and interest rates; • risks related to adverse capital and credit market conditions; • risks related to the COVID-19 pandemic and its impact on our business, as well as to other natural and man-made disasters and catastrophes; • risks related to collection and retention of confidential information and compliance with related regulations; and • regulatory risks across numerous jurisdictions. Interest rate fluctuations and sustained periods of low or high interest rates could adversely affect Global Atlantic’s business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations, cash flows and prospects. Interest rate risk is a significant market risk for Global Atlantic, as fluctuations in market interest rates can expose Global Atlantic to the risk of reduced income in respect of its investment portfolio, increases in the cost of acquiring or maintaining its insurance liabilities, increases in the cost of hedging, or other fluctuations in Global Atlantic's financial, capital and operating 104 profile which materially and adversely affect the business. Global Atlantic defines interest rate risk as the risk of a loss due to changes in interest rates. This risk arises from Global Atlantic's holdings in interest rate-sensitive assets and liabilities, which includes annuity products and long-duration life insurance policies, derivative contracts with payments linked to the level of interest rates or with market values which fluctuate based on the level of interest rates, and the fixed income assets Global Atlantic owns in its investment portfolio. Interest rate risk also includes adverse changes in customer behavior that may occur as a result of changes in interest rates. Both rising and declining interest rates can negatively affect Global Atlantic's business. Higher interest rates may result in increased surrenders on interest-sensitive products, such as annuity contracts and certain life insurance policies, which may adversely affect Global Atlantic's earnings related to those products. This risk is present across most of Global Atlantic's insurance products, which can typically be surrendered for the cash value, less any applicable surrender charge, at any time. Higher policyholder surrenders may occur in response to rising interest rates as higher crediting rate investments might become available to policyholders in a higher rate environment. This increase in surrender outflows may create cash flow mismatches between cash received from Global Atlantic's investments versus cash needed to make policyholder liability payments. This mismatch could result in losses if assets must be liquidated at a loss to meet the increased policyholder obligations. An increase in surrenders or withdrawals also may cause Global Atlantic to accelerate the amortization of deferred acquisition costs ("DAC") and value of business acquired ("VOBA"), resulting in a decline in net income. Additionally, an increase in market interest rates could also have a material adverse effect on the value of Global Atlantic's investment portfolio by, for example, decreasing the fair values of the fixed income securities and other interest rate-sensitive securities within Global Atlantic's investment portfolio at a time when we may be forced to liquidate investments. During periods of falling interest rates, Global Atlantic may face cash flow mismatches between interest earned on its investment portfolio and policy liabilities that may be crediting higher rates. Global Atlantic has the discretion, subject to contractual limitations and minimums, to reset the crediting rates on the majority of its general account products. However, Global Atlantic's ability to lower crediting rates is subject to several constraints. For instance, minimum crediting rates are filed with and approved by state regulators, and certain products contain interest rate guarantee periods and other characteristics that restrict this ability, among other restrictions. In addition, competition and other factors, including the potential for increases in surrenders and withdrawals, may limit Global Atlantic's ability to adjust or maintain crediting rates at levels necessary to avoid decreases in earnings under certain conditions. Continued low interest rates could challenge product development and product attractiveness, and may also result in Global Atlantic earning lower margins on new business volumes than Global Atlantic has historically earned. Lower interest rates may reduce the demand for Global Atlantic's insurance products, leading to lower sales. In addition, lower interest rates may make the reinsurance solutions Global Atlantic is able to offer more expensive to potential clients, decreasing their interest in executing reinsurance transactions with Global Atlantic. In a period of declining interest rates, Global Atlantic's investment earnings may decline because new investments will likely bear lower interest rates, and Global Atlantic may not be able to fully offset the decline in investment earnings with lower liability costs on the products these investments support. In addition, the yield on Global Atlantic's floating rate assets will decline as interest rates decline, reducing Global Atlantic's investment income. During periods of declining interest rates, life insurance and annuity products also may be relatively more attractive to consumers due to minimum guarantees, resulting in a higher percentage of contracts remaining in force than originally estimated, causing greater claims costs and asset/liability cash flow mismatches. Conversely, management actions to reduce rates on inforce contracts in response to declining interest rates may result in greater surrenders than originally estimated, which may adversely affect Global Atlantic's earnings related to those products. While Global Atlantic seeks to cash-flow match its assets to its policy liabilities, greater market volatility and uncertainty has made matching more difficult. To the extent that Global Atlantic does not or is unsuccessful in cash-flow matching, Global Atlantic will face the risk of having to reinvest in lower-yielding assets, reducing investment income. Moreover, certain of Global Atlantic's life insurance policies have a longer duration than available investment assets, and, in a declining rate environment, as assets backing these policies mature, the proceeds may have to be reinvested in lower-yielding assets, reducing investment income. The difference between shorter-term and longer-term rates (also known as the yield curve) may also impact Global Atlantic's business. Global Atlantic's investments are typically in longer-duration assets. Accordingly, the crediting rates offered on Global Atlantic's products typically appear more appealing when the yield curve is steeper, and Global Atlantic is better able to differentiate its products from shorter-term alternatives. Global Atlantic's use of derivative financial instruments within its risk management strategy may not be effective or sufficient. As part of Global Atlantic's risk management strategy, it employs derivative instruments to hedge certain market risks, including interest rate risk and equity price risk. Global Atlantic offers a variety of products that are exposed to market risks, such as fixed-indexed annuities, indexed universal life and variable annuities, in particular, products with guaranteed benefits. Global Atlantic's risk management hedge program seeks to mitigate economic impacts relating to its insurance products primarily from interest rate and equity price movements, while taking into consideration accounting and capital impacts by purchasing derivative financial instruments. Hedging to mitigate economic impacts may result in additional volatility in Global 105 Atlantic's GAAP results or in adverse impacts on the level of statutory capital and the risk-based capital ("RBC") ratios of its insurance subsidiaries. Hedging using derivative financial instruments may not effectively offset changes in the carrying value of insurance reserves due to, among other things, the time lag between changes in the value of such reserves and the changes in the value of the derivative financial instruments purchased by Global Atlantic, extreme changes in credit and/or equity market and/or interest rate levels or volatility, policyholder behavior that differs from expectations, and divergence between the performance of the underlying funds of such variable annuity products with guaranteed benefit features and the indexes utilized by Global Atlantic in estimating exposure to such guarantees. Global Atlantic may also choose not to hedge, in whole or in part, risks it has identified, due to, for example, the availability and/or cost of a suitable derivative financial instrument or Global Atlantic's view of credit, equity and/or interest rate market levels or volatility. Additionally, the estimates and assumptions made in connection with Global Atlantic's use of any derivative financial instrument may fail to reflect or correspond to actual long-term exposure in respect of identified risks. In addition, Global Atlantic may fail to identify risks, or the magnitude thereof, to which it is exposed. Global Atlantic is also exposed to the risk that its use of derivative financial instruments within its risk management strategy may not be properly designed or may not be properly implemented as designed. Global Atlantic is also subject to the risk that its derivative counterparties or clearinghouse may fail or refuse to meet their obligations to Global Atlantic under derivative financial instruments. If Global Atlantic's derivative counterparties or clearinghouse fail, refuse to meet their obligations in this regard or there is insufficient collateral to cover potential obligations, Global Atlantic's efforts to mitigate risks to which it is subject may prove to be ineffective or inefficient. Global Atlantic operates in a highly competitive industry that includes a number of companies, many of which are larger and more well-known, which could limit Global Atlantic's ability to increase or maintain market share and/or margins. Global Atlantic operates in highly competitive markets and competes with large and small industry participants. Global Atlantic faces intense competition, based upon price, terms and conditions, relationships, quality of service and execution certainty, capital and perceived financial strength (including third-party ratings), technology, innovation, ease of use, capacity, product breadth, reputation, experience, and brand recognition. Global Atlantic's competitors include other insurers, reinsurers and other financial institutions that offer investment products. Many of Global Atlantic's competitors are large and well-established, and some have greater market share or breadth of distribution, assume a greater level of risk while maintaining financial strength ratings, or have higher financial strength, claims-paying or credit ratings than Global Atlantic does or benefit, by offering various lines of insurance, from diversification of risks and possible positive impacts on capital requirements. Global Atlantic's competitors may also have lower operating costs than Global Atlantic, which may allow them to price insurance products, reinsurance solutions or acquisitions more competitively. Furthermore, Global Atlantic may face greater operational complexity when compared to competitors who offer a more limited range of products due to the breadth of Global Atlantic's product offering. Competition in the industry could result in increased pressure on the pricing of certain of Global Atlantic's products and services, and could harm Global Atlantic's ability to maintain or increase profitable growth. For example, fixed annuity sales are materially impacted by the crediting rate offered on Global Atlantic's fixed annuities compared to that offered by its competitors. There can be no guarantee that Global Atlantic will be able or choose to set crediting rates at competitive levels, which may impact sales. Moreover, sales to fiduciaries may be materially impacted by Global Atlantic's ability and willingness to offer one of the most competitive crediting rates. Global Atlantic believes that there is also increased competition with respect to service quality and ease of use of new business paperwork and processing and ongoing policy administration services. Poor service quality, including by Global Atlantic's third-party administrators, may impact its reputation and relationships and consequently Global Atlantic's sales, persistency and renewals. Global Atlantic is working to address this competition by expanding its digital capabilities. Global Atlantic's transition to digital, such as providing electronic statements or using online application processes, may be disruptive to Global Atlantic's operations. If such disruption negatively impacts policyholder experience or the receipt of accurate data, it could have a material adverse effect on Global Atlantic's reputation, business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, Global Atlantic is aware that non-traditional firms have been entering the institutional channel, and traditional reinsurers have been expanding their areas of expertise, both of which could have a significant effect on competition in Global Atlantic's industry, as future opportunities in the reinsurance market may be more competitive due to the number of new entrants and their capital and investment management resources. Global Atlantic expects to face competition from insurers with deeper experience and brand recognition as it expands its presence in adjacent markets. 106 Because of the highly competitive nature of the insurance industry, there can be no assurance that Global Atlantic will maintain or grow its market share, continue to identify attractive opportunities in either the individual or institutional markets, or that competitive pressure will not have a material adverse effect on Global Atlantic's business, results of operations and financial condition. Global Atlantic depends on the performance of its third-party service providers, including distribution partners and agents, and their failure to perform in a satisfactory manner could negatively affect Global Atlantic's business. A number of elements of Global Atlantic's operations are managed on an outsourced basis. These arrangements create performance risks for Global Atlantic's business and, to a lesser extent, create the risk that Global Atlantic's operating expenses will increase. Failure in or poor performance by Global Atlantic's third-party service providers, including, for example, if the third party fails to meet contractual requirements, fails to comply with applicable laws and regulations, suffers a cyber-attack or other security breach, fails to provide Global Atlantic or its policyholders with timely and accurate information or fails to maintain adequate internal controls, could have a material adverse effect on Global Atlantic's business, results of operations and financial condition. If Global Atlantic elects to replace any of these third-party service providers, Global Atlantic may incur costs or business disruptions in connection with finding, retaining and operationalizing suitable new providers. In addition, the time and attention of senior management may be diverted away from ongoing business operations. Global Atlantic has settled policyholder and agent class action litigation matters and a number of regulatory matters stemming from service disruptions caused by its third-party administrator for life insurance policies Alliance-One Service, Inc. ("Alliance-One"). Global Atlantic and Alliance-One have agreed to amend Global Atlantic's administration contract with Alliance-One to mitigate the risk of other disruptions in the future, but there can be no guarantee these mitigation efforts will be successful. Global Atlantic may continue to experience reputational impacts and heightened regulatory scrutiny as a result of these matters. With respect to third-party service providers who perform policy administration and compliance services for Global Atlantic's registered investment adviser and broker-dealer subsidiaries, failures in, or poor performance by, these third-party administrators could result in an increase in customer complaints and regulatory intervention. Poor performance by third-party administrators may also have a negative impact on Global Atlantic’s wholesaler, agent and distribution partner relationships. If any of these third-party administrators or their employees are found to have made material misrepresentations to Global Atlantic's policyholders, violated applicable insurance, privacy or other laws and regulations or otherwise engaged in misconduct, Global Atlantic could be held liable for their actions, which could adversely affect Global Atlantic's reputation and business prospects, may lead to regulatory sanctions or litigation and could result in financial harm. The precautions Global Atlantic takes to prevent and detect this activity may not be effective in all cases. Although Global Atlantic employs controls and procedures designed to monitor agents and vendors and to prevent the taking of excessive or inappropriate risks, agents and employees of Global Atlantic's vendors may take such risks regardless of such controls and procedures. Because Global Atlantic’s products are distributed through unaffiliated distribution partners, Global Atlantic does not have direct supervision or control over the manner in which its products are solicited, resulting in compliance and operational risks. Global Atlantic relies on these intermediaries to appropriately describe and explain its products to potential policyholders and ensure that any product recommendations are appropriate based on consumer needs and objectives. If such intermediaries are deemed to have acted on Global Atlantic’s behalf, any intentional or unintentional misrepresentation of Global Atlantic’s products and services could result in liability for Global Atlantic and have an adverse effect on its reputation and business prospects, and may lead to regulatory actions or litigation. State insurance regulators have enacted regulations which dictate the obligations and duties of insurers and producers with respect to the suitability of annuity sales so that the insurance needs and financial objectives of consumers are effectively addressed. Regulators have initiated regulatory actions in situations where annuity sales have been deemed to be unsuitable for certain consumers who have purchased annuity products. If Global Atlantic’s products are solicited and sold by third parties in an inappropriate manner, or to policyholders for whom such products are not suitable, Global Atlantic may suffer material adverse reputational and financial harm. For example, Global Atlantic and the broader life insurance industry have from time to time experienced, and may experience in the future, agents engaging in unlawful practices in the sale of life insurance policies, resulting in lower than anticipated profitability on such policies. In addition, if any of Global Atlantic's service providers fails to provide Global Atlantic with timely and accurate data, the accuracy of Global Atlantic's financial reporting may be impacted. Global Atlantic also includes in its financial statements financial data received from third parties relating to certain investments accounted for under the equity method.  Global Atlantic also relies on other providers for valuations related to its investment portfolio. Should any service provider fail to accurately record information pertaining to Global Atlantic’s investment portfolio, Global Atlantic may inadvertently include inaccurate information in its financial statements. In many of Global Atlantic's reinsurance agreements, Global Atlantic relies on the ceding companies to whom it provides reinsurance, or the third-party administrators with whom they contract, to provide policy administration and policyholder services and to provide timely and accurate financial and operating information. Global Atlantic may experience inaccuracies in 107 its earnings as a result of erroneous or untimely reporting from its reinsurance company clients or the third-party administrators with whom they contract. Global Atlantic cannot provide any assurances that erroneous information received from third parties will be identified and resolved such that the information is included without error, which may impact Global Atlantic's business and servicing quality. Guarantees within certain of Global Atlantic's products may decrease Global Atlantic's earnings, increase the volatility of Global Atlantic's results, result in higher risk costs for Global Atlantic and expose Global Atlantic to increased counterparty risk. Certain of Global Atlantic's retirement and life products include guaranteed minimum death benefits, guaranteed minimum income benefits or no-lapse guarantees. These guarantees are designed to protect policyholders against significant downturns in securities markets and interest rates, or to provide certain minimum levels of coverage. Changes in markets may result in the requirement to hold additional reserves with respect to these policies, which may negatively impact Global Atlantic's liquidity or require it to raise additional capital. Periods of significant and sustained downturns in securities markets, increased equity volatility, reduced interest rates, or deviations in expected policyholder behavior could result in an increase in the valuation of Global Atlantic's liabilities associated with those products. Global Atlantic conducts a review of the assumptions used to value its liabilities in the third quarter of each year. An increase in these liabilities would result in a decrease in Global Atlantic's net income. For example, Global Atlantic has reinsured and previously issued universal life policies, for which Global Atlantic provides a secondary, no-lapse guarantee to the policyholder. Global Atlantic holds an additional reserve in connection with these guarantees, which is calculated over a range of economic scenarios to incorporate the variability in the obligation that may occur under different environments. Market movements or changes in the demographics of Global Atlantic's no-lapse guarantee policyholders may cause quarterly volatility, which may be significant, in Global Atlantic's calculation of these reserves. In addition, declining equity market prices, increasing equity market volatility and declining interest rates can result in an increase in the cost of providing variable annuity policy benefits and can increase required reserves, reducing Global Atlantic's profitability. Declining market values for fixed income investments and equities also reduce the account balances of Global Atlantic's variable annuity contracts, which can have the effect of reducing Global Atlantic's profitability because it collects fees and risk charges based on these account balances. Lower variable annuity account balances also impact the profitability of variable annuity contracts that include a guaranteed minimum withdrawal feature that entitles the contract owner to withdraw a contractually determined amount each year that is a percentage of his or her benefit base or total guaranteed amount. Global Atlantic uses risk management strategies, including hedging, to manage the economic exposure to interest rates and equity markets, with consideration of accounting and capital impacts. These strategies involve the use of reinsurance and derivatives, which may not be completely effective. For example, in the event that reinsurers or derivative counterparties are unable or unwilling to pay, Global Atlantic remains liable for the guaranteed benefits. In addition, hedging instruments may not effectively offset the costs of guarantees or may otherwise be insufficient in relation to Global Atlantic's obligations. Increased market volatility or implied volatility, declining equity market prices and other changes in capital markets may also subject Global Atlantic to increased hedging costs. Furthermore, Global Atlantic is subject to the risk that changes in policyholder behavior or mortality, combined with adverse market events, produce economic losses not addressed by the risk management techniques employed. These, individually or collectively, could have a material adverse effect on Global Atlantic's business, financial condition and results of operations. Global Atlantic may experience volatility in its net income under GAAP due to accounting standards for derivatives. Pursuant to current accounting guidance (Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Accounting Standard Codification Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging), Global Atlantic's derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in other contracts (such as policyholder or reinsurance contracts), are generally recognized on the balance sheet at their fair values and changes in fair value are recognized immediately in earnings. This affects certain revenues and expenses Global Atlantic reports for its business as described below. These fair values are sensitive to various factors including, but not limited to, interest rate movements, credit spreads, and various other factors. Because of this, changes in these fair values may cause increased levels of volatility in Global Atlantic's financial statements. In particular, Global Atlantic must mark to market the options and other derivative instruments purchased or sold to hedge Global Atlantic's business based upon quoted market prices from counterparties, which incorporate many market factors. Global Atlantic records the change in fair value of these instruments as a component of Global Atlantic's revenues. The change in fair value of derivatives includes the gains or losses recognized at expiration of any instrument or upon its early termination and changes in fair value for open positions. Global Atlantic's fixed-indexed annuity, variable annuity and indexed universal life products contain equity-indexed features, which are accounted for as embedded derivatives and are required to be measured at fair value. Global Atlantic calculates the embedded derivative as the present value of future projected benefits in excess of the projected guaranteed 108 benefits. In addition, the fair value of the embedded derivative is reduced to reflect the risk of non-performance on Global Atlantic's obligation, referred to as Global Atlantic's own credit risk. The fair value of this embedded derivative component includes assumptions about future interest rates and interest rate structures, future costs for options used to hedge the contract obligations, projected withdrawal and surrender activity, and the level and limits on contract participation in any future increases in market indexes such as the S&P 500 Index. The fair value of the embedded derivative component of variable annuities with guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits includes assumptions about contract values, performance of market indexes such as the S&P 500 Index, expectations of benefit utilization and timing of election, and expected survivorship. Changes in interest rates, future index credits, Global Atlantic's own credit risk, projected withdrawal and surrender activity, and mortality on fixed-indexed annuity and indexed universal life contracts can have a significant impact on the value of the embedded derivative. For example, to the extent that the market indexes such as the S&P 500 Index experiences high returns over a given time period, Global Atlantic would be required to increase reserves for its liabilities linked to that index. Accordingly, the application of this accounting guidance may cause substantial volatility in Global Atlantic's reported net income. We may be required to accelerate the amortization of deferred revenues and expenses, including DAC and VOBA. Global Atlantic incurs significant costs in connection with acquiring new and renewal insurance business. DAC consists of commissions and other costs that are directly related to (1) the successful acquisition of new or renewal insurance contracts and (2) the acquisition of blocks of business via reinsurance transactions. Deferrable sales inducements ("DSI") are generated by annuities that offer enhanced crediting rates or bonus payments to policyholders. VOBA represents the difference between the carrying value of the purchased in-force insurance contract liabilities at the time of the business combination and the estimated fair value of insurance and reinsurance contracts. Global Atlantic establishes an unearned revenue reserve ("URR") liability for revenues from certain universal life insurance products that are deferred to future periods and an unearned front-end load ("UFEL") for gross premium in excess of the benefit reserve plus additional insurance liability for certain preneed contracts. For limited pay contracts, a deferred revenue liability ("DRL") that represents the gross premium less the net premium and the liability offset to the deferred gain arising from the amendment, respectively, is established. Each of DAC, VOBA, URR, UFEL and DRL requires significant estimates to establish and amortize. In conjunction with the Global Atlantic acquisition, purchase accounting required Global Atlantic to write-down intangibles including DAC and VOBA, and then reestablish the new VOBA at the fair value for Global Atlantic. These purchase accounting adjustments will impact Global Atlantic’s emergence of earnings in the future. Global Atlantic periodically revises the key assumptions used in the calculation of the amortization of DAC, VOBA, URR, UFEL and DSI as part of the assumption review process. If estimates of future gross profits or margins are revised down, then the amortization of deferred revenues and expenses will be accelerated in the period of the change and will result in a charge to income, which could have a material adverse effect on Global Atlantic's profitability. Differences between Global Atlantic's policyholder behavior estimates, reserve assumptions and actual claims experience, in particular with respect to the timing and magnitude of claims and surrenders, may adversely affect Global Atlantic's results of operations or financial condition. Global Atlantic holds reserves to pay future policy benefits and claims. Global Atlantic's reserves are estimated based on data and models that include many assumptions and projections, which are inherently uncertain and involve significant judgment, including assumptions as to the levels and/or timing of receipt or payment of premiums, benefits, claims, expenses, interest credits, investment results (including equity and other market returns), mortality, morbidity, longevity and persistency. While Global Atlantic periodically reviews the adequacy of its reserves and the assumptions underlying those reserves. Global Atlantic cannot determine with precision the amounts that Global Atlantic will pay for, or the timing of payment of, actual benefits, claims and expenses or whether the assets supporting policy liabilities, together with future premiums, will grow to the level assumed prior to the payment of benefits or claims. For Global Atlantic's directly issued fixed-rate annuities reserves are equal to policyholder account balances before applicable surrender charges, and lapse, surrender rates and persistency assumptions are important assumptions used in calculating these reserves and drivers of profitability with respect to these products. Advances in technology, including predictive medical technology that enables consumers to select products better matched to their individual longevity or mortality risk profile and other medical breakthroughs that extend lives, could cause Global Atlantic's future experience to deviate significantly from actuarial assumptions, which could adversely impact the level of reserves and profitability. The resulting acceleration of expense amortization, reduced spread or increased payments could have a material adverse effect on Global Atlantic's business, financial condition and results of operations. If actual experience differs significantly from assumptions or estimates, certain balances included in Global Atlantic's balance sheet, may not be adequate, particularly DAC, VOBA, policy reserves and other actuarial balances. If Global Atlantic concludes that its reserves, together with future premiums, are insufficient to cover future policy benefits and claims, Global Atlantic would be required to increase its reserves and incur income statement charges for the period in which it makes the 109 determination, which could have a material adverse effect on Global Atlantic's business, financial condition and results of operations. The increase in the statutory reserves of Global Atlantic's operating subsidiaries may negatively affect liquidity and capitalization. Estimates used in the preparation of financial statements and models for insurance products may differ materially from actual experience. GAAP requires the application of accounting guidance and policies that often involve a significant degree of judgment when accounting for insurance products. These estimates include, but are not limited to, premium persistency, future policy benefits and related expenses, valuation of embedded derivatives, valuation and impairment of investments and amortization of deferred revenues and expenses. These accounting estimates require the use of assumptions, some of which are highly uncertain at the time of estimation. These estimates are based on judgment, current facts and circumstances and, when applicable, internally developed models. Therefore, actual results could differ from these estimates, possibly in the near term. Inaccuracies could result in, among other things, an increase in policyholder benefit reserves or acceleration of the amortization of deferred revenues and expenses, such as DAC and VOBA, which would result in a charge to earnings, a restatement of Global Atlantic's historical financial statements or other material adjustments. Additionally, the potential for unforeseen developments, including changes in laws, regulations or accounting standards, may result in losses and loss expenses materially different from the reserves initially established. In addition, Global Atlantic employs models to price products, calculate reserves and value assets, as well as evaluate risk and determine capital requirements, among other uses. These models rely on estimates and projections that are inherently uncertain, may use incomplete, outdated or incorrect data or assumptions and may not operate properly. As Global Atlantic's businesses continue to expand and evolve, the number and complexity of models it employs has grown, increasing exposure to error in the design, implementation or use of models, including the associated data input, controls and assumptions, and the controls in place to mitigate their risk may not be effective in all cases. Global Atlantic's growth strategy includes reinsurance of insurance obligations written by unaffiliated insurance companies, and its ability to consummate these transactions on acceptable terms is uncertain. Even if Global Atlantic executes transactions on acceptable terms, the ability to realize the anticipated financial benefits from reinsurance transactions is uncertain. Global Atlantic has grown and intends to continue growing its business through block reinsurance transactions, flow reinsurance, pension risk transfer and the issuance of funding agreements. Global Atlantic routinely reviews potential reinsurance transactions, some of which may be material. To the extent Global Atlantic is unable to consummate suitable reinsurance transaction opportunities on acceptable terms, its future growth may be negatively impacted. Even if Global Atlantic does find suitable opportunities on commercially acceptable terms, Global Atlantic may not be able to consummate these transactions because of the regulatory approvals required or other considerations. There is no assurance Global Atlantic will continue to be successful in these institutional markets. Global Atlantic has experienced increased competition in the reinsurance market. In addition, competition in the reinsurance market, in particular with respect to transaction pricing, is making it more difficult to identify transactions with terms that are commercially acceptable based on Global Atlantic’s objectives and analyses. Moreover, the NAIC is considering, and certain states have enacted, insurance business transfer laws that permit insurers to transfer blocks of business to other insurers by operation of law. Such transfers could become a viable alternative structure to block reinsurance transactions and consequently may materially and adversely impact Global Atlantic’s ability to identify and enter into new block reinsurance transactions. If Global Atlantic enters into a reinsurance transaction, there can be no assurance that the transaction will achieve the results expected at the time the transaction is executed. Factors that can cause Global Atlantic’s actual experience to vary from its estimates include, but are not limited to, macroeconomic, asset performance, business growth, demographic, policyholder behavior, regulatory and political conditions. In addition, Global Atlantic faces risks associated with managing reinsured blocks, such as maintaining adequate personnel and operational systems to manage such blocks. If, in connection with a reinsurance transaction, Global Atlantic converts a reinsured block of business to a new system, there could be disruption of servicing for policyholders. As a result of any such disruption, Global Atlantic may experience customer complaints, regulatory intervention, or other adverse impacts. As a result of the foregoing, Global Atlantic may realize materially less than the anticipated financial benefits from reinsurance transactions, or Global Atlantic’s reinsurance transactions may be unprofitable or result in losses. With respect to additional future reinsurance transactions, there can be no assurance that opportunities will persist, and even if opportunities do persist, there can be no assurance that Global Atlantic will have sufficient capital available, or to the extent it does have sufficient capital, that such capital will be available in the necessary entities, to continue growing this part of Global Atlantic's business. In order to enter into reinsurance arrangements through Global Atlantic's Bermuda insurance 110 subsidiaries, Global Atlantic needs sufficient capital to be held by such subsidiaries. Global Atlantic's ability to move capital to its Bermuda insurance subsidiaries without adverse consequence may be limited by regulatory restrictions on dividends from Global Atlantic's U.S. insurance subsidiaries, restrictions on intercompany transactions more generally, tax consequences or other considerations. Global Atlantic sponsors co-investment vehicles (“Co-Invest Vehicles”), including Ivy Co-Invest Vehicle LLC, that have capital committed to invest alongside Global Atlantic in certain block reinsurance, pension risk transfer and other reinsurance transactions that Global Atlantic enters into during their investment period. Global Atlantic prices and bids for transactions assuming such Co-Invest Vehicles will meet their participation obligations for such transactions. However, Global Atlantic does not control the Co-Invest Vehicles, and Global Atlantic is subject to the risk that the Co-Invest Vehicles fail or refuse to fund their portion of a particular transaction, in which case Global Atlantic would have contractual remedies against the defaulting Co-Invest Vehicles but not directly against their shareholders or lenders. Global Atlantic is also subject to the risk that a Co-Invest Vehicle fails to meet its obligations under any funds withheld reinsurance arrangements with Global Atlantic. Global Atlantic’s historical growth rates may not be indicative of its future growth, and Global Atlantic may not be able to identify attractive insurance markets, reinsurance opportunities or investments with returns that are as favorable as Global Atlantic’s historical returns and grow new business volumes at historical levels. Global Atlantic’s historical growth rates may not reflect its future growth rates. While Global Atlantic anticipates that it will continue to grow by deepening existing and adding new distribution relationships in Global Atlantic's individual market, pursuing attractive reinsurance opportunities and further expanding its funding agreement business in the institutional market, taking advantage of investment opportunities to support Global Atlantic's growth, developing new products and entering new markets and maintaining Global Atlantic's positive in-force earnings dynamic, Global Atlantic may not be able to identify opportunities to do so. With future growth, there can be no guarantee that Global Atlantic's net underwriting return will be as favorable as its historic returns. Weaker margins may challenge Global Atlantic's ability to grow profitably or at the returns targeted. Further, in order to maintain or increase investment returns, it may be necessary to expand the scope of Global Atlantic's investing activities to asset classes in which Global Atlantic historically has not invested, which may increase the risk of Global Atlantic's investment portfolio. If Global Atlantic is unable to find profitable growth opportunities, it will be more difficult for Global Atlantic to continue to grow, and could negatively affect its results of operations and financial condition. In addition, Global Atlantic's future growth depends on its ability to continue to offer and sell products that Global Atlantic's customers find attractive. Consumer preferences regarding annuities and life insurance are subject to change. In particular, due to market risks, consumers may not continue to view annuities as an attractive retirement savings product, which would impact Global Atlantic's ability to sell such products to its target consumers. In addition, there is no guarantee that younger generations will use life insurance products at the same rate as previous generations as a result of changes in savings habits and demographic shifts. Global Atlantic’s historical growth has been largely concentrated in fixed-rate annuities, fixed-indexed annuities and indexed universal life products. However, sales of these products may not continue to grow or be reinsured at historical levels, and there can be no assurance that consumers will continue to prefer these products. Moreover, continued future growth depends on its ability to offer competitive pricing and attractive terms. For example, one factor impacting sales of fixed-rate annuities is the crediting rate Global Atlantic offers compared to that offered by its competitors. Global Atlantic sets its crediting rates based on expected investment returns, policyholder behavior assumptions and other factors that may be beyond Global Atlantic's control. Global Atlantic expects that overall sales of fixed-rate annuities will continue to be sensitive to changes in pricing, including when compared to pricing on comparable products such as bank certificates of deposit. If consumer preferences for Global Atlantic's products change, Global Atlantic's revenues and results of operations may be materially adversely impacted. Gaps in Global Atlantic's risk management policies and procedures may leave it exposed to unidentified or unanticipated risk, which could negatively affect Global Atlantic's business. Global Atlantic has devoted significant resources to develop its Enterprise Risk Management ("ERM") framework to identify, monitor and manage financial and nonfinancial risks effectively, but Global Atlantic cannot guarantee that this framework will allow it to efficiently price, identify and predict future risks. Developing an effective framework for assessing and managing risks is complex. No framework or strategy can completely insulate Global Atlantic from all risks, and Global Atlantic may be unable to identify all risks and limit its exposures based on its assessments. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that Global Atlantic can effectively review and monitor all risks or that all of Global Atlantic's employees will follow its risk management policies and procedures. As part of Global Atlantic's ERM framework, Global Atlantic utilizes models, including its asset-liability cash flow matching platform, to assess risks believed to be applicable to Global Atlantic's business. In addition, Global Atlantic uses its ERM framework to manage strategic, operational and legal and compliance risks. However, Global Atlantic will need to continuously update these models, systems and its ERM framework based on Global Atlantic's business strategy, risk limits, the 111 regulatory and capital environment, and other external and internal factors that may impact Global Atlantic's strategy, the market or industry environment in which Global Atlantic operates and realized or observed behavior. Many of Global Atlantic's methods for managing risk and exposures are based upon the use of observed historical market behavior to model or project potential future exposure. Models used by Global Atlantic's business are based on assumptions and projections. These models may not operate properly or Global Atlantic's inputs and assumptions may be inaccurate. A lack of controls and processes or failures in such controls and processes with respect to Global Atlantic's models may impair the integrity and reliability of these models and their outputs. As a result, these methods may not fully predict future exposures, which can be significantly greater than historical measures indicate. If Global Atlantic's processes, analysis and risk management do not accurately predict and appropriately respond to future risk exposures, such risks could have a material adverse effect on Global Atlantic's business, results of operations and financial condition. Global Atlantic's actual or perceived financial strength impacts its ability to sell its products, and a downgrade in Global Atlantic's ratings or in the ratings of its insurance subsidiaries could materially adversely affect Global Atlantic's ability to compete, raise equity or issue debt. Financial strength ratings are published by various nationally recognized statistical rating organizations ("NRSROs") and similar entities not formally recognized as NRSROs. Rating organizations periodically review the financial performance and condition of insurers, including Global Atlantic's insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries. Rating organizations assign ratings based upon several factors. While most of the factors considered relate to the rated company, some of the factors relate to general economic conditions and other circumstances outside the rated company's control. The various rating agencies periodically review and evaluate Global Atlantic's capital adequacy in accordance with their established guidelines and capital models, which may themselves be subject to modification over time. Rating agencies change their standards from time to time. S&P Global Ratings expects to change significantly its capital model for insurers in 2022 and anticipates these changes to have an impact on a significant percentage of insurers. There can be no assurance that Global Atlantic’s ratings will not be negatively impacted by the proposed changes if and once implemented. If Global Atlantic's capital levels are deemed insufficient, Global Atlantic could be required to reduce its risk profile in order to maintain its current ratings, by, for example, reinsuring and/or retroceding some of Global Atlantic's business, materially altering its business and sales plans or by raising additional capital. Any such action could have a material adverse effect on Global Atlantic's business, results of operations and financial condition. Global Atlantic's business depends in part on strong financial strength ratings to compete effectively. Global Atlantic's clients and counterparties use its insurance financial strength ratings as one source to assess the financial strength and quality of Global Atlantic's insurance subsidiaries. Downgrades in Global Atlantic's credit ratings or changes to its rating outlook, or downgrades or changes in outlook to the financial strength ratings of Global Atlantic's insurance subsidiaries, could have a material adverse effect on Global Atlantic's business, results of operations and financial condition in many ways, including limiting access to distributors, restricting Global Atlantic's ability to generate sales, decreasing profitability, increasing policy lapse activity, limiting access to capital markets and potentially increasing the cost of debt, which could adversely affect liquidity. For example, Global Atlantic believes that a downgrade in the A.M. Best rating of Global Atlantic's U.S. insurance subsidiaries could materially impact their sales and access to new distribution relationships as Global Atlantic's distribution partners often view the A.M. Best rating as a key measure of an insurer's financial position. The ability of Global Atlantic's subsidiaries to engage in reinsurance transactions—and to do so absent substantial obligations to collateralize performance of their respective obligations—may depend in part on their financial condition and is influenced by their ratings. If an independent rating agency downgrades or withdraws any of Global Atlantic's ratings, Global Atlantic could be limited in, or prevented from, writing any new insurance and reinsurance contracts; some existing contracts may be terminated or may require Global Atlantic to enhance certain credit terms; the pricing terms Global Atlantic can obtain may be adversely affected; and Global Atlantic's ability to access the capital markets could be materially adversely impacted. Downgrades in credit or financial strength ratings may increase the regulatory scrutiny to which Global Atlantic and its insurance subsidiaries are subjected. There is no guarantee that Global Atlantic will be able to maintain its ratings in the future, and Global Atlantic cannot provide any assurances that actions taken by ratings agencies would not result in a material adverse effect on Global Atlantic's business, results of operations and financial condition. Global Atlantic's failure to comply with covenants contained in its current or future credit facilities or agreements could trigger prepayment obligations, which could materially adversely affect Global Atlantic's business, results of operations and financial condition. Global Atlantic's revolving credit facility and term loan agreement require Global Atlantic to comply with certain covenants, which include requirements to maintain a consolidated debt to total capitalization ratio, as defined under the agreements, of 35% or less and to maintain consolidated net worth determined in accordance with GAAP of no less than 70% of Global Atlantic’s net worth as of June 30, 2021, plus 50% of Global Atlantic's net income since June 30, 2021. Global Atlantic's failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived within any 112 applicable grace period, could result in the acceleration of amounts outstanding under the facility and of the term loan. In addition, if Global Atlantic defaults on its senior notes or subordinated debentures, any other debt with a principal amount of at least $75 million or any swap contract with a termination value in excess of $75 million, then Global Atlantic will also be in default under its revolving credit facility and on the term loan. Any default under these agreements, and any resulting acceleration of Global Atlantic's outstanding indebtedness, would have a material adverse effect on Global Atlantic’s business, results of operations and financial condition. Default by Global Atlantic under these agreements may also cause a cross default under KKR's corporate revolving credit facility, which, if not cured or waived, could have a material adverse effect on KKR's business, results of operations and financial condition. Global Atlantic does not have captive or proprietary distribution or engage in direct sales, and if Global Atlantic's products are not retained on or added to the platforms of its distribution partners, sales of Global Atlantic's products may be reduced. Global Atlantic relies on banks, broker-dealers, insurance agencies and independent agents to distribute its retirement and traditional life insurance products, including preneed. Global Atlantic's distribution partners are not captive and may sell retirement and life insurance products of Global Atlantic's competitors. If Global Atlantic's competitors offer products that are more attractive, pay higher commission rates to the sales representatives or offer a better service experience, these representatives may concentrate their efforts in selling Global Atlantic’s competitors' products instead of Global Atlantic's products. Global Atlantic competes with other insurance companies to place products with distribution partners. Key distribution partners may merge, change their business models in ways that affect how Global Atlantic's products are sold, or terminate their distribution contracts with Global Atlantic, or new distribution channels could emerge and adversely impact the effectiveness of Global Atlantic's distribution efforts. Distribution partners, in particular banks and broker-dealers, typically have limited availability for multiple similar products from several insurance companies. An increase in bank and broker-dealer consolidation activity may result in Global Atlantic's products being dropped from a platform, increase competition for access to distributors and impair Global Atlantic's ability to market products through these channels. Consolidation of distributors and/or other industry changes may also increase the likelihood that distributors will try to renegotiate the terms of any existing selling agreements to terms less favorable to Global Atlantic. Distribution partners may also stop offering one or more of Global Atlantic's products, for a period of time or permanently, for a variety of reasons, including Global Atlantic's financial strength pricing or servicing. If any one of such distributors were to terminate its relationship with Global Atlantic or reduce the amount of sales which it produces, Global Atlantic's results of operations may be adversely affected. In addition, some of Global Atlantic's distribution partners and potential partners use proprietary or third-party scoring systems in determining which products to sell. These ratings are primarily based on an insurance company's statutory filings and provide a quantitative comparison of one insurance company against another. If Global Atlantic's scores fall to levels unacceptable to its distribution partners, they may no longer distribute Global Atlantic's products to their customers, which would have a negative impact on Global Atlantic's business and results of operations. Other distributors use proprietary scoring systems that typically incorporate NRSRO credit or financial strength ratings or other industry ratings, and Global Atlantic's ability to access distribution channels may be impacted if it does not have a certain score under those proprietary methods. If Global Atlantic is unable to place its products or retain its products on the platforms of distribution partners, Global Atlantic's business, results of operations and liquidity may be negatively affected. Global Atlantic faces risks associated with business it reinsures and business it cedes to reinsurers and which could cause a material adverse effect on Global Atlantic's business, results of operations and financial condition. As part of Global Atlantic's overall risk management strategy, it cedes business to other insurance companies through reinsurance. Global Atlantic's inability to collect from its reinsurers (including reinsurance clients in transactions where Global Atlantic reinsures business net of ceded reinsurance) on its reinsurance claims could have a material adverse effect on Global Atlantic's business, results of operations and financial condition. Although reinsurers are liable to Global Atlantic to the extent of the reinsurance coverage it acquires, Global Atlantic remains primarily liable as the direct insurer on all risks that it writes; therefore, Global Atlantic's reinsurance agreements do not eliminate its obligation to pay claims. As a result, Global Atlantic is subject to the risk that it may not recover amounts due from reinsurers. The risk could arise primarily in two situations: (1) Global Atlantic's reinsurers may dispute some of its reinsurance claims based on contract terms, and, as a result, Global Atlantic may receive partial or no payment or (2) Global Atlantic's reinsurers may default on their obligations. While Global Atlantic may manage these risks through transaction-related diligence, contract terms, collateral requirements, hedging, and other oversight mechanisms, Global Atlantic's efforts may not be successful. A reinsurer's insolvency, or its inability or unwillingness to make payments due to Global Atlantic under the terms of the relevant reinsurance agreements, could have a material adverse effect on Global Atlantic's business, results of operations and financial condition. Global Atlantic also bears the risk that the companies that reinsure its mortality risk on a yearly renewable term, where the reinsurer may reset the premium and other terms each year, increase the premiums they charge to levels Global Atlantic deems 113 unacceptable. If that occurs, Global Atlantic will either need to pay such increased premiums, which will affect margins and financial results, or alternatively, Global Atlantic will need to limit or potentially terminate reinsurance, which will increase the risks that Global Atlantic retains. Conversely, certain of Global Atlantic's insurance subsidiaries assume liabilities from other insurance companies. Changes in the ratings, creditworthiness or market perception of such ceding companies or in the administration of policies reinsured to Global Atlantic could cause policyholders of contracts reinsured to Global Atlantic to surrender or lapse their policies in unexpected amounts. In addition, to the extent such ceding companies do not perform their obligations under the relevant reinsurance agreements, Global Atlantic may not achieve the results intended and could suffer unexpected losses. In either case, Global Atlantic has exposure to its subsidiaries' reinsurance clients, which could materially and adversely affect Global Atlantic's business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Global Atlantic is exposed to risks related to natural and man-made disasters and catastrophes, diseases, epidemics, pandemics, malicious acts, war, cyber-attacks, terrorist acts and climate change, which could adversely affect Global Atlantic’s business and financial results. A natural or man-made disaster or catastrophe, including a severe weather or geological event such as a storm, tornado, fire, flood or earthquake, disease, epidemic, pandemic (such as COVID-19), malicious act, cyber-attack, terrorist act, or the occurrence of climate change, could adversely affect Global Atlantic's mortality, morbidity or other experience, adversely affect Global Atlantic’s investment portfolio (for example by damaging or destroying physical assets in which Global Atlantic invests or impact in the financial performance of loans or securities collateralized by loans) and have a significant negative impact on Global Atlantic's operations and results. In addition, claims arising from the occurrence of such events or conditions could have a material adverse effect on Global Atlantic's business, results of operations and financial condition. Such events or conditions could also have an adverse effect on lapses and surrenders of existing policies, as well as sales of new policies. In addition, such events or conditions could result in significant physical damage and destruction to, and a decrease or halt in economic activity in, large geographic areas, adversely affecting Global Atlantic's business within such geographic areas and/or the general economic climate. Such events or conditions could also result in additional regulation or restrictions on the conduct of Global Atlantic's business. Furthermore, certain of these events could cause Global Atlantic’s workforce, or those of its third-party administrators, to be unable to engage in operations at one or more facilities or result in short- or long-term interruptions in Global Atlantic’s business operations. Global Atlantic's risk management efforts, insurance and other precautionary plans and activities may not adequately predict or offset the impact of such events on Global Atlantic's business, results of operations and financial condition. Any failure to protect the confidentiality of client information could adversely affect Global Atlantic’s reputation and have a material adverse effect on its business, financial condition and results of operations. Pursuant to federal and state laws, various government agencies have established rules protecting the privacy and security of personal information. In addition, most states have enacted laws, which vary significantly from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, to safeguard the privacy and security of personal information. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 imposes privacy requirements on financial institutions, including obligations to protect and safeguard consumers' nonpublic personal information and records, and limits the ability to share and reuse such information. Global Atlantic is also subject to the New York State Department of Financial Services cybersecurity regulation, to a limited extent the California Consumer Privacy Act and other privacy laws and regulations. Many regulators have indicated an intention to take more aggressive enforcement actions regarding cybersecurity and data privacy matters, and private litigation resulting from such matters is increasing and resulting in progressively larger judgments and settlements. Many of Global Atlantic's employees have access to, and routinely process, personal information of clients through a variety of media, including information technology systems. Global Atlantic relies on various internal processes and controls to protect the confidentiality of client information that is accessible to, or in the possession of, Global Atlantic and its employees. It is possible that an employee could, intentionally or unintentionally, disclose or misappropriate confidential client information or Global Atlantic's data could be the subject of a cybersecurity attack. Global Atlantic's third-party administrators and their employees also have access to, and routinely process, personal information of clients, and Global Atlantic is also dependent on such third parties and their systems to protect such data. Global Atlantic is aware of instances in which one of its employees or one of its third-party administrators' employees unintentionally shared confidential client information. While Global Atlantic offered remediation, such as credit monitoring, to the impacted clients, and trained the individuals involved in the situations it was aware of, if Global Atlantic fails to maintain adequate internal controls or if its employees fail to comply with Global Atlantic's policies and procedures, misappropriation or intentional or unintentional inappropriate disclosure or misuse of client information could occur. Such internal control inadequacies or noncompliance could materially damage Global Atlantic's reputation or lead to civil or criminal penalties. Global Atlantic's third-party service providers, including third parties to whom Global Atlantic outsources certain functions, are also subject to the risks outlined above, any one of which could result in damage to Global Atlantic's reputation, Global Atlantic incurring substantial costs and other negative consequences. If Global 114 Atlantic or any of its third-party service providers fails to protect the confidentiality of client information, it could have a material adverse effect on Global Atlantic's business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, Global Atlantic analyzes customer data to better manage its business. There has been increased scrutiny, including from regulators, regarding the use of "big data," such as using "big data" to set product pricing. Global Atlantic's ability to use data to gain insights into and manage its business may be limited in the future by regulatory scrutiny regarding "big data." Global Atlantic cannot predict what, if any, actions may be taken with regard to "big data," but such inquiries could cause reputational harm and could have a material adverse effect on Global Atlantic's business, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in accounting standards could adversely impact Global Atlantic's reported results of operations and reported financial condition. Global Atlantic's financial statements are subject to the application of GAAP, which is periodically revised, reinterpreted and/or expanded. Accordingly, from time to time Global Atlantic is required to adopt new guidance or interpretations, or could be subject to existing guidance as Global Atlantic enters into new transactions or business lines, which may have a material effect on Global Atlantic's results of operations and financial condition that is either unexpected or has a greater impact than expected. Upon the closing of the acquisition of Global Atlantic by KKR, Global Atlantic established a new accounting basis for purchase accounting, under which all identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed were measured and recorded at fair value as of the date of the closing. In addition, certain accounting standards applicable to public entities became applicable to Global Atlantic. In August 2018, the FASB issued new guidance for insurance companies that issue or reinsure long-duration contracts such as life insurance and annuities. The objective of this guidance is to improve, simplify, and enhance the financial reporting of long-duration contracts by providing financial statement users with useful information in a timely and transparent manner. The new guidance is effective for public business entities for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2022, including interim periods within those fiscal years. Global Atlantic is currently preparing for the adoption of this standard and continuing to evaluate the impact on its consolidated financial statements. Based on Global Atlantic's preparation to date, Global Atlantic believes that the new standard will increase volatility in its consolidated financial statements, in particular due to the requirement to measure market risk benefits at fair value. In June 2016, FASB issued new guidance on the measurement of credit losses on financial instruments, including reinsurance recoverables, under GAAP. This guidance replaced the incurred loss impairment methodology with a requirement to reflect current expected credit losses in amortized cost instead of recognizing losses as incurred. Following the closing of the Global Atlantic acquisition, this standard became applicable to Global Atlantic and required increases in expected credit losses on financial instruments measured at amortized cost including loan receivables and reinsurance recoverables which are recognized as a charge to earnings. The changes for long-duration contracts, the measurement of credit losses on financial instruments, application of purchase accounting in connection with the closing of the Global Atlantic acquisition or other changes in accounting standards could affect the way Global Atlantic accounts for and reports significant areas of its business, could impose special demands on Global Atlantic in the areas of governance, employee training, internal controls and disclosure, and will likely affect how Global Atlantic manages its business. As a result, the required adoption of future accounting standards could have a material adverse impact on Global Atlantic's results of operations and financial condition. The NAIC has approved Statutory Accounting Principles for U.S. insurance companies that have been implemented by the domiciliary states of Global Atlantic's U.S. insurance subsidiaries. The NAIC from time to time considers amendments to the Statutory Accounting Principles and is currently considering various amendments to the Statutory Accounting Principles that impact investment transactions, including, for example, definitions of affiliated and related party transactions and capital charge determinations for loan-backed and structured securities. In addition, the NAIC has expressed concerns and is considering changes related to filing exempt status for certain securities or loans, which generally allows the use of an NRSRO rating for purposes of capital assessment as opposed to requiring review by the Securities Valuation Office. The NAIC adopted, and is considering additional, changes to the NAIC ratings assigned to privately rated securities. These changes and future changes raise uncertainty with respect to the NAIC ratings of, and consequently capital required to be held for, certain investments. In addition, the NAIC Accounting Practices and Procedures Manual, or the "Accounting Manual," provides that state insurance departments may permit insurance companies domiciled therein to depart from the Statutory Accounting Principles by granting them permitted accounting practices. Global Atlantic makes use of permitted practices today and may seek approval to use additional permitted practices in the future. Permitted practices do not preempt legislative or regulatory changes to the Statutory Accounting Principles. Accordingly, there is a risk that Global Atlantic may not be able to continue to use a previously granted permitted practice. In addition, Global Atlantic cannot predict whether or when the insurance departments of the states of domicile of its competitors may permit Global Atlantic's competitors to utilize advantageous accounting practices 115 that depart from the Statutory Accounting Principles, the use of which is not permitted by the insurance departments of the states of domicile of Global Atlantic's U.S. insurance subsidiaries. Any change in the Statutory Accounting Principles or permitted practices could have a material adverse impact on the capital Global Atlantic is required to hold in its business and consequently on its profitability and ability to grow. Global Atlantic’s Bermuda insurance subsidiaries are licensed to conduct insurance business by the BMA. In 2016, the BMA made significant changes to Bermuda’s regulatory and supervisory regimes, to achieve equivalence with the European Union’s Directive 2009/138EC, as amended (Solvency II). On March 24, 2016, and (retroactively) effective as of January 1, 2016, a number of changes were instituted for commercial insurers and insurance groups to enhance statutory and prudential reporting requirements. In that regard, the BMA implemented the Economic Balance Sheet ("EBS") framework ("EBS Framework"), which is now used as the basis to determine an insurer’s enhanced capital requirement ("ECR"). Bermuda-licensed commercial insurers are required to prepare prescribed statutory financial statements.  Global Atlantic’s Bermuda insurance subsidiaries’ financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP act as the basis on which statutory financial statements are prepared, subject to application of certain prudential filters. These statutory financial statements, in turn, form the starting basis for the preparation of the EBS. The statutory financial statements also form the basis for assessing each Bermuda insurance subsidiary’s ordinary dividend capacity, Minimum Margin of Solvency and class of registration as an insurer in Bermuda. The EBS Framework and statutory financial statements are embedded in the BMA’s legislative and regulatory regime. Global Atlantic can give no assurances that (1) the impact of purchase accounting, (2) future changes to GAAP or any interpretation thereof, (3) future changes to SAP or components of SAP or any interpretations thereof, (4) the grant of permitted accounting practices to Global Atlantic's competitors or (5) future changes to Bermuda legal, accounting or financial regimes, including changes to the EBS Framework, will not have a negative impact or material adverse effect on Global Atlantic. Global Atlantic may experience volatility in its net income under GAAP due to its funds withheld and modified coinsurance transactions. Funds withheld coinsurance and modified coinsurance differ from coinsurance and certain other forms of reinsurance in that the assets equal to the net statutory reserves are withheld and legally owned by the ceding company, while the related investment risk is transferred to the reinsurer. Under GAAP accounting these funds withheld and modified coinsurance contracts create embedded derivatives for both the ceding company and the reinsuring company, and each embedded derivative must be measured at fair value. The valuation of an embedded derivative is sensitive to the market environment, including credit spreads of the assets held by the ceding insurer, and can generate significant volatility depending on market conditions. Changes in the fair value of embedded derivatives are recorded in investment related gains/(losses) on the consolidated statements of income. Global Atlantic assumes certain policy risks written by other insurance companies via reinsurance that may be on a funds withheld or modified coinsurance basis. In these arrangements, Global Atlantic is subject to the investment performance on the withheld assets, although Global Atlantic does not directly control them. Global Atlantic helps to set, and monitor compliance with, the investment guidelines followed by the applicable ceding company. However, to the extent that such investment guidelines are not appropriate, or to the extent that the ceding companies do not adhere to such guidelines, Global Atlantic's risk of loss could increase, which could materially adversely affect its GAAP results, financial condition and results of operations. Global Atlantic also cedes certain policy risks to third party reinsurers on a funds withheld coinsurance basis. These arrangements may generate significant volatility in Global Atlantic’s net income under GAAP. We could be forced to sell investments at a loss to cover policyholder benefits, withdrawals, recaptures or collateralization requirements of Global Atlantic’s reinsurance commitments or other events. Many of the products in Global Atlantic's in-force book allow policyholders to withdraw their funds under defined circumstances. In addition, certain of Global Atlantic's reinsurance agreements include provisions requiring that under certain circumstances Global Atlantic provides collateral to support performance of its reinsurance commitments, including trust balances. Global Atlantic's operating subsidiaries manage their liabilities and configure their investment portfolios to provide and maintain sufficient liquidity to support anticipated withdrawal demands, contract benefits and maturities. While Global Atlantic's operating subsidiaries own a significant amount of liquid assets, a portion of their assets are considered less liquid. Unanticipated withdrawal or surrender activity or liquidity demands in connection with recaptures or collateralization requirements could, under some circumstances, require Global Atlantic's operating subsidiaries to dispose of assets on unfavorable terms, which could have a material adverse effect on Global Atlantic's business, results of operations and financial condition. Moreover, reinsurance agreements may provide for recapture rights on the part of Global Atlantic's ceding company clients, and a substantial portion of Global Atlantic's reinsurance agreements require that Global Atlantic hold or provide collateral to support performance of Global Atlantic's reinsurance commitments. See "—Certain of Global Atlantic's reinsurance agreements contain triggers that permit the reinsurance client to recapture some or all of the reinsured portfolio, 116 which, if triggered, may have a material adverse effect on Global Atlantic's business, results of operations and financial condition." We may be forced to sell investments as a result of a recapture of its reinsurance business or as a result of the need to hold additional collateral that meets the associated investment guidelines. Global Atlantic holds a significant portion of its reinsurance assets in trust, which may restrict Global Atlantic's ability to invest those assets and also may permit the ceding company to withdraw those assets from the trust in certain circumstances. In certain reinsurance transactions where Global Atlantic is the reinsurer, it must provide collateral to the ceding company. State regulation and the ability of Global Atlantic insurance subsidiaries to obtain regulatory designation as a certified or reciprocal jurisdiction reinsurer impact the amount of collateral Global Atlantic must provide. A significant portion of the collateral that Global Atlantic provides to its reinsurance clients is provided in the form of assets held in a trust for the benefit of the counterparty. Global Atlantic's investment of assets held in trust is restricted based on the terms of the trust agreement and associated investment guidelines. As such, Global Atlantic may not have flexibility to invest such assets as it otherwise might, and Global Atlantic's investment returns on such assets may therefore be less than if they were not held in trust. In addition, in certain circumstances the ceding company may be allowed to withdraw assets from the trust if Global Atlantic fails to pay amounts due under the applicable reinsurance agreement. Certain of Global Atlantic's reinsurance agreements contain triggers that permit the reinsurance client to recapture some or all of the reinsured portfolio, which, if triggered, may have a material adverse effect on Global Atlantic's business, results of operations and financial condition. Certain of Global Atlantic's reinsurance agreements contain triggers that if breached may result in the reinsured party having the right to recapture the reinsured business or also to terminate the reinsurance agreement. A recapture trigger permits the ceding company to reassume under certain circumstances all or a portion of the risk ceded to Global Atlantic. For reinsurance transactions in which the ceding company cedes all or a portion of the risk to Global Atlantic, Global Atlantic's reinsurance agreements typically include a recapture right that is triggered if, for example, Global Atlantic fails to maintain certain minimum levels of capitalization or certain minimum levels of reserves to support the business reinsured. These reinsurance agreements also typically include provisions that provide for termination of the agreement and recapture of the business upon the occurrence of insolvency, rehabilitation, non-payment of amounts due, material breach of contract provisions or failure to provide the ceding company with the ability to take reserve credit. The economic, financial and liquidity impact from the loss of the recaptured business, in addition to Global Atlantic's economic hardships at the time of recapture, may have a material adverse effect on Global Atlantic’s business, results of operations and financial condition. The determination of the amount of impairments and allowances for credit losses recognized on Global Atlantic's investments is highly subjective and could materially affect its results of operations or financial condition. The determination of the amount of impairments and allowances for credit losses is based upon Global Atlantic's periodic evaluation and assessment of known and inherent risks associated with the respective asset class and the specific investment being reviewed. Such evaluations and assessments are revised as conditions change and new information becomes available. Management updates its evaluations regularly and reflects changes in allowances and impairments in its financial results as such evaluations are revised. Impairments result in a non-cash charge to earnings during the period in which the impairment charge is taken. Changes in allowances for credit losses can result in either a charge or credit to earnings. For example, an allowance is recognized on Global Atlantic's fixed maturity securities when the fair value of the security is less than its amortized cost basis and credit related losses are deemed to have occurred. The determination of the allowance requires assessment of the security's expected future cash flows, which depend on a variety of macroeconomic factors and security-specific considerations. Similarly, the determination of the allowance on Global Atlantic's mortgage and other loan receivables requires an assessment of expected credit losses that considers current, historical and forecasted macroeconomic data and loan-specific factors. As expectations change based on macroeconomic data and individual investment considerations, the associated allowance for credit losses can be adjusted, up or down. There can be no assurance that management has accurately determined the amount of impairments and allowances for credit losses recognized in Global Atlantic's financial statements and their potential impact on regulatory capital. Furthermore, additional impairments and allowance provisions may be taken in the future. Global Atlantic's membership in Federal Home Loan Banks subjects Global Atlantic to potential liquidity and other risks. Global Atlantic's insurance subsidiaries Accordia, FLIC and CwA are members of the Federal Home Loan Banks of Des Moines, Indianapolis and Boston, respectively, which allows those companies to borrow against certain of their investments, such as commercial mortgage loans, eligible under the applicable Federal Home Loan Bank definition to be posted as collateral. If those sources of borrowing by those companies were to no longer be available to them, for example, because the Federal Home Loan Banks change their definition of eligible collateral, the value of the collateral pledged for these borrowings declines 117 due to changes in interest rates or credit ratings and the companies need to post additional collateral in the form of cash or other eligible securities or if the Federal Home Loan Banks issue a capital call on the preferred shares owned by Global Atlantic's insurance companies, the liquidity of such insurance subsidiaries could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, if the applicable insurance subsidiary's creditworthiness falls below the minimum required or if legislative or other political actions cause changes to the Federal Home Loan Bank mandate or to the eligibility of life insurance companies to be members of the Federal Home Loan Bank system, Global Atlantic may lose access to this funding and be required to find other sources to replace it. From time to time, Global Atlantic participates in repurchase and reverse repurchase transactions that subject Global Atlantic to liquidity risks. Global Atlantic currently has a committed repurchase facility and from time to time participates in a repurchase transaction. Under these repurchase agreements, Global Atlantic may sell fixed income securities to third-party counterparties, primarily major brokerage firms and commercial banks, with a concurrent agreement to repurchase those same securities at a determined future date. These repurchase agreements are required to be secured by collateral. Throughout the term of the repurchase agreement, Global Atlantic must post cash or securities as collateral to its counterparties equal to Global Atlantic's repurchase obligation plus any applicable over-collateralization amount. On the maturity date of the applicable repurchase agreement, Global Atlantic must pay the repurchase price, or Global Atlantic and its counterparty must agree to extend the applicable repurchase agreement by entering into a new repurchase agreement. If the value of the securities posted as collateral declines below the repurchase price plus any applicable over-collateralization amount, Global Atlantic will need to post additional cash or securities as collateral. Global Atlantic's ability to enter into a new repurchase agreement instead of settling a repurchase transaction on the repurchase date may be limited by market conditions. Therefore, Global Atlantic's liquidity may be negatively impacted when it is required to post additional collateral or when it is unable to extend an expiring repurchase agreement by entering into a new repurchase agreement. In addition, Global Atlantic invests in securities the cash it receives from its repurchase counterparties. Those securities may decline in value during the term of the repurchase agreements. If Global Atlantic sells those securities at a loss, Global Atlantic may not have enough cash to fund the obligation that it has to its counterparties under the repurchase agreements. Under adverse capital market and economic conditions, liquidity may broadly deteriorate, further restricting Global Atlantic's ability to sell the securities and fund the obligation that it has to its counterparties. Global Atlantic may also from time to time participate in reverse repurchase agreements whereby Global Atlantic purchases fixed income securities from third parties in exchange for cash, with a concurrent obligation by such third parties to repurchase those same securities from Global Atlantic at a determined future date. In the case of default by such third party in a reverse repurchase agreement, Global Atlantic runs the risk that such third party may not repurchase the security when required. In the event of the bankruptcy or other default of such third party in a repurchase agreement, Global Atlantic could experience both delays in liquidating the underlying security and losses, including but not limited to (1) a possible decline in the value of the collateral received from Global Atlantic's counterparties during the period while Global Atlantic seeks to enforce its rights therein, (2) possible subnormal levels of income and lack of access to income during this period and (3) expenses of enforcing Global Atlantic's rights. Tax Risks Related to Global Atlantic Unless the context otherwise requires, the term "Bermuda insurance subsidiaries" as used in "—Tax Risks Related to Global Atlantic" refers to (1) Global Atlantic Assurance Limited and (2) Global Atlantic Re Limited with respect to any period ending prior to January 1, 2018, the effective date of the election made pursuant to Section 953(d) of the Code to treat Global Atlantic Re as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. The IRS could contend that Global Atlantic or its non-U.S. subsidiaries are or were engaged in trade or business within the United States and subject to U.S. federal income taxes. Certain Global Atlantic subsidiaries, including Global Atlantic Financial Limited ("GAFL") and its Bermuda insurance subsidiaries, are non-U.S. companies that are treated as corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes. GAFL and its Bermuda insurance subsidiaries have conducted and intend to conduct substantially all of their operations outside the United States and to limit their U.S. contacts with the intention that GAFL and its Bermuda insurance subsidiaries not be treated as engaged in trade or business within the United States. However, there is considerable uncertainty as to when a non-U.S. corporation is engaged in trade or business within the United States, and there can be no assurance that the IRS will not contend that GAFL or its Bermuda insurance subsidiaries, are or were engaged in trade or business within the United States. If GAFL, or any of its Bermuda insurance subsidiaries, were considered to be engaged in trade or business within the United States, such company could be subject to U.S. corporate income taxes and branch profits taxes on the portion of its earnings and profits that 118 is or was effectively connected to such trade or business within the United States. If the IRS were to contend successfully that GAFL, its Bermuda insurance subsidiaries, Global Atlantic or any of its other non-U.S. subsidiaries are or were engaged in trade or business within the United States, Global Atlantic’s results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected. There is U.S. federal income tax risk associated with reinsurance transactions, intercompany transactions and distributions between U.S. companies and their affiliates. The 2017 Tax Act introduced the Base Erosion and Anti-Abuse Tax (the "BEAT") on certain U.S. companies that make deductible payments to related non-U.S. companies in taxable years beginning after December 31, 2017. The BEAT is imposed at a rate of 5% for 2018, 10% through 2025 and 12.5% thereafter. Under the terms of 2017 Tax Act, the BEAT applies to "any premium or other consideration" paid or accrued to a related foreign reinsurer. To mitigate the effect of the BEAT, Global Atlantic Re Limited filed an election under Section 953(d) of the Code to treat Global Atlantic Re Limited as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes effective as of January 1, 2018. The BEAT applies only to related-party transactions with non-U.S. persons and hence would not apply to Global Atlantic's U.S. insurance subsidiaries' affiliate reinsurance transactions with Global Atlantic Re Limited. There can be no assurances that Global Atlantic Re Limited will continue to meet the requirements for an effective 953(d) election or that Global Atlantic will otherwise be successful in mitigating the effect of the BEAT. In addition, the Code permits the IRS to reallocate, recharacterize, or adjust items of income, deduction or certain other items related to a reinsurance agreement between related parties to reflect the proper "amount, source or character" for each item. Further, the tax treatment of certain aspects of reinsurance ceded to a non-U.S. reinsurer on a funds withheld coinsurance basis is uncertain. If the IRS were successfully to challenge Global Atlantic’s intercompany reinsurance arrangements between its subsidiaries or Global Atlantic’s tax treatment of funds withheld coinsurance with non-U.S. reinsurers (including Global Atlantic's insurance subsidiaries), Global Atlantic's financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. There are significant cross-border transactions in place among Global Atlantic's affiliates, some of which Global Atlantic treats as loans or swaps for tax purposes, and Global Atlantic may expand the scope of its cross-border intercompany transactions in the future. If the IRS were successfully to challenge these transactions, or if legislation were enacted, or administrative guidance promulgated, that altered the expected tax treatment of such transactions, Global Atlantic's financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Dividends paid by GAFL's direct subsidiaries Global Atlantic Re Limited and Global Atlantic (Fin) Company ("FinCo") to GAFL will be subject to a 30% U.S. federal withholding tax. Therefore, Global Atlantic may be limited in its ability to move cash efficiently between FinCo (and its subsidiaries) and Global Atlantic Re Limited and GAFL. Changes in U.S. tax law could affect the products that Global Atlantic's subsidiaries sell. Many of the products Global Atlantic's subsidiaries sell benefit from one or more forms of tax-favored status under current U.S. federal and state income tax regimes. For example, Global Atlantic's subsidiaries sell and reinsure annuity contracts that allow the policyholders to defer the recognition of taxable income earned within the contract. In addition, current U.S. federal income tax law permits the exclusion from taxation of death benefits paid under life insurance contracts. Changes in U.S. tax laws that alter the tax benefits or treatment of certain products could result in a material reduction in demand for Global Atlantic's subsidiaries' products and could affect policyholder behavior with respect to existing annuity products in ways that are difficult to predict, for example increasing the expected lapse rate or, if the treatment of existing contracts is grandfathered, reducing the rate at which existing contracts are surrendered or rolled over. The IRS may successfully challenge GAFL's status as a non-U.S. corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Under U.S. federal income tax law, a corporation is generally considered for U.S. federal income tax purposes to be a tax resident of the jurisdiction of its organization or incorporation. Because GAFL is a Bermuda-incorporated exempted entity, it would generally be classified as a non-U.S. corporation (and, therefore, a non-U.S. tax resident) under these rules. However, Section 7874 of the Code ("Section 7874") provides an exception to this general rule under which a non-U.S. incorporated entity may, in certain circumstances, be treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. On April 1, 2016, Global Atlantic completed a reorganization of GAFL (the "GAFL Reorganization"). Under Section 7874, if GAFL's direct parent owned (within the meaning of Section 7874) 80% or more (by vote or value) of GAFL's common shares after the GAFL Reorganization (the "Section 7874 ownership percentage"), GAFL would be treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. Based on the terms of the GAFL Reorganization and the rules for determining share ownership under Section 7874, Global Atlantic does not believe that GAFL's direct parent received 80% or more of GAFL's common shares (either by vote or value). 119 However, the rules under Section 7874 are relatively complex and there is limited guidance regarding their application. In particular, ownership for purposes of Section 7874 is subject to various adjustments under the Code and the U.S. Treasury regulations promulgated thereunder, and there is limited guidance regarding Section 7874. As a result, the determination of the Section 7874 ownership percentage is complex and is subject to uncertainty. There can be no assurance that the IRS will agree with the position that GAFL should not be treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes. If GAFL were to be treated as a U.S. corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes under Section 7874 or for any other reason, GAFL would be subject to substantial additional historic and future U.S. federal income tax liability, including current taxation of all of Global Atlantic’s Bermuda insurance subsidiaries’ subpart F income and global intangible low-taxed income, as defined under Section 951A(b) of the Code, which could have a material adverse effect on Global Atlantic’s financial condition and results of operations. Section 7874 may limit Global Atlantic's ability to utilize certain U.S. tax attributes or otherwise adversely affect GAFL's tax position and may limit GAFL's flexibility to engage in acquisition transactions. As a result of the GAFL Reorganization, Section 7874 will limit the ability of Global Atlantic's U.S. holding company and its U.S. affiliates to utilize certain U.S. tax attributes (including net operating losses and certain tax credits) to offset, during the ten-year period following the GAFL Reorganization, their U.S. taxable income, or related income tax liability, resulting from certain (1) transfers to related foreign persons of stock or other properties of Global Atlantic's U.S. holding company and its U.S. affiliates, and (2) licensing to related foreign persons of any property by Global Atlantic's U.S. holding company and its U.S. affiliates. Future potential changes to the tax laws could result in the application of certain adverse U.S. federal income tax rules to GAFL and its U.S. affiliates as a result of the GAFL Reorganization. Any changes could have prospective or retroactive application, and may apply even though the GAFL Reorganization has been consummated. In addition, U.S. Treasury regulations could limit GAFL's flexibility to engage in acquisition transactions involving U.S. targets. The effect of Bermuda's commitment to the OECD to eliminate harmful tax practices is uncertain and could adversely affect Global Atlantic's tax status in Bermuda. The effect of Bermuda's commitment to the OECD to eliminate harmful tax practices is uncertain and could adversely affect Global Atlantic's tax status in Bermuda. The OECD has published reports and launched a global dialogue among member and non-member countries on measures to limit harmful tax competition. These measures are largely directed at counteracting the effects of income tax havens and preferential income tax regimes in countries around the world. According to the OECD, Bermuda is a jurisdiction that has substantially implemented the internationally agreed tax standard and as such is listed on the OECD "white list." However, Global Atlantic is not able to predict whether any future changes will be made to this "white list" classification or whether any such changes will subject Global Atlantic and its Bermuda-domiciled subsidiaries to additional taxes. See "—Risks Related to Our Business—Changes in relevant tax laws, regulations or treaties or an adverse interpretation of these items by tax authorities could adversely impact our effective tax rate and tax liability" for discussions of the OECD's BEPS project. Global Atlantic is subject to the risk that Bermuda tax laws may change and that GAFL may become subject to new Bermuda taxes following the expiration of current exemptions after 2035. The Bermuda Minister of Finance, under Bermuda's Exempted Undertakings Tax Protection Act 1966, as amended, has provided written assurance that if any legislation is enacted in Bermuda that would impose tax on profits or income, or computed on any capital asset, gain or appreciation, or any tax in the nature of estate duty or inheritance tax, then the imposition of any such tax will not be applicable to GAFL or any of its operations or common shares, debentures or other obligations until March 31, 2035, except insofar as such tax applies to persons ordinarily resident in Bermuda or to any taxes payable by GAFL in respect of real property owned or leased by GAFL in Bermuda. Similar assurances have been provided to each of GAFL's Bermuda-domiciled subsidiaries. Given the limited duration of the Bermuda Minister of Finance's assurances, Global Atlantic cannot provide any assurances that GAFL or its Bermuda-domiciled subsidiaries will not be subject to any Bermuda tax after March 31, 2035. Regulatory Risks Related to Global Atlantic Global Atlantic's businesses are heavily regulated across numerous jurisdictions and changes in regulation could reduce Global Atlantic's profitability. Global Atlantic's insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are highly regulated by, among others, insurance regulators in the United States and Bermuda, and changes in regulations affecting Global Atlantic's businesses may reduce Global Atlantic's profitability and limit its growth. 120 Global Atlantic has insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries that operate in all 50 U.S. states, the U.S. Virgin Islands and the District of Columbia, as well as Bermuda. The insurance and reinsurance industry is generally heavily regulated and Global Atlantic's operations in each of these jurisdictions are subject to varying degrees of regulation and supervision. The laws and regulations of the jurisdictions in which Global Atlantic's insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are domiciled or deemed to be commercially domiciled may require these companies to, among other things, maintain minimum levels of statutory capital, surplus and liquidity, meet solvency standards, submit to periodic examinations of their financial condition, and restrict payments of dividends and distributions of capital. Global Atlantic's insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries also are subject to laws and regulations that may restrict the ability of these companies to write insurance and reinsurance policies, make certain types of investments and distribute funds. With respect to investments, Global Atlantic's insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries must comply with applicable regulations regarding the type and concentration of investments it may make. These restrictions are set forth in investment guidelines that KKR's investment management subsidiary must comply with when providing investment management to these Global Atlantic entities. These restrictions may limit Global Atlantic's ability to invest and KKR's ability to earn fees on those investments. In addition, Global Atlantic’s insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are subject to laws and regulations governing affiliate transactions. The investment management agreements between the KKR investment manager and Global Atlantic entities were approved by applicable insurance regulators, and any changes of such agreements, including with respect to fees, must receive applicable approval. These affiliate transaction rules are particularly important to Global Atlantic given (1) its relationship with KKR and (2) the fact that its business strategy involves reinsuring business among its subsidiaries. In connection with the conduct of Global Atlantic's various businesses, Global Atlantic believes it is crucial to establish and maintain good working relationships with the various regulatory authorities having jurisdiction over its businesses. If those relationships and that reputation were to deteriorate, Global Atlantic's businesses could be materially adversely affected. For example, Global Atlantic requires various consents and approvals from its regulators, both with respect to transactions Global Atlantic enters into and in the ordinary course of the conduct of its businesses. If Global Atlantic fails to maintain good working relationships with its regulators, it may become more difficult or impossible for Global Atlantic to obtain those consents and approvals, either on a timely basis or at all. In addition to the regulations of the jurisdictions where Global Atlantic's insurance subsidiaries are domiciled, Global Atlantic also must obtain licenses to sell insurance in other states and U.S. jurisdictions. Global Atlantic Re Limited is a certified reinsurer in Indiana, Iowa and Massachusetts, and therefore must comply with U.S. state laws governing certified reinsurer status. Most state regulatory authorities are granted broad discretion in connection with their decisions to grant, renew or revoke licenses and approvals that are subject to state statutes. If Global Atlantic is unable to renew the requisite licenses and obtain the necessary approvals or otherwise does not comply with applicable regulatory requirements, the insurance regulatory authorities could stop, or temporarily suspend Global Atlantic from conducting some or all of its operations as well as impose fines. At the United States federal level, the Dodd-Frank Act established the Federal Insurance Office ("FIO") within the U.S. Department of the Treasury to monitor all aspects of the insurance industry and of lines of business other than certain health insurance, certain long-term care insurance and crop insurance. Although the FIO currently does not directly regulate the insurance industry, FIO does monitor and scrutinize developments in the industry. As required under the Dodd-Frank Act, the Director of the FIO has submitted a report to Congress regarding how to modernize and improve the system of insurance regulation in the United States, another report on the impact of Part II of the Nonadmitted and Reinsurance Reform Act of 2010, and a third report on the global reinsurance market and the regulation of reinsurance. Moreover, FIO’s 2021 annual report identifies potential risks related to private equity ownership of life insurers. Such reports could ultimately lead to changes in the regulation of insurers and reinsurers in the United States, which could negatively impact Global Atlantic's business and financial results. In addition, under the Dodd-Frank Act, the FIO may determine that a covered agreement, an agreement between the United States and one or more foreign governments, authorities or regulatory entities, regarding prudential measures with respect to insurance or reinsurance, preempts comparable state law. The United States has signed covered agreements relating to reinsurance with the European Union and the United Kingdom. U.S. states have until September 1, 2022 to adopt reinsurance reforms removing reinsurance collateral requirements for reinsurers that meet the prescribed minimum conditions set forth in the applicable covered agreement or state laws imposing reinsurance collateral requirements will be subject to federal preemption. In 2019, the NAIC adopted revisions to the Credit for Reinsurance Model Law and Model Regulation that if adopted into law by state legislatures implement the removal of reinsurance collateral requirements for reinsurers that are designated as reciprocal jurisdiction reinsurers. These revisions have not yet been adopted in all states. Global Atlantic cannot predict the impact of the removal of collateral requirements for reciprocal jurisdiction reinsurers in certain states may have on Global Atlantic’s business, including its competitiveness in reinsurance transactions, or when or if Global Atlantic insurance subsidiaries may be designated as reciprocal jurisdiction reinsurers that do not need to post collateral for their client to receive credit for reinsurance in the United States. 121 Regulations applicable to Global Atlantic and interpretations and enforcement of such regulations may change. Insurance regulators have increased their scrutiny of the insurance regulatory framework in the United States, and some state legislatures have considered or enacted laws that alter, and in many cases increase, state authority to regulate insurance holding companies and insurance and reinsurance companies. The NAIC and state insurance regulators are increasingly focused on the relationships between private equity firms and insurers. In December 2021, an NAIC task force released a list of 13 regulatory considerations applicable to private equity–owned insurers and asked an NAIC working group to coordinate review of such considerations. These actions signify increased scrutiny of insurance companies owned by private equity firms and the potential for additional regulation. Global Atlantic is unable to predict whether, when or in what form and what impact regulatory changes will have on its business. In February 2020, Bermuda was moved to the European Union’s "whitelist" of cooperative tax jurisdictions having delivered on the commitments made to the European Union in 2019 to further enhance its regulatory and transparency framework. The European Commission has proposed sanctions against non-cooperative tax jurisdictions, including restrictions on certain European sovereign wealth funds channeling funds through entities domiciled in non-cooperative jurisdictions. If, in the future, Bermuda's classification changes and Bermuda is included on the European Union's noncooperative jurisdictions list, the ability of certain European sovereign wealth funds (and the willingness of other European members) to invest in Global Atlantic's business may be limited as a result of such sanctions. In the future, individual E.U. member states may also apply sanctions against non-cooperative jurisdictions. If, in the future, Bermuda's classification changes and Bermuda is included on the non-cooperative jurisdictions list and these or other sanctions are implemented in the future, Global Atlantic cannot guarantee that such sanctions will not have a material and adverse impact on Global Atlantic's business. The cost of compliance with existing laws and regulations is high and the cost of compliance with any new regulatory requirements could have a significant and negative effect on Global Atlantic's business. Global Atlantic may not be able to comply fully with, or obtain desired exemptions from, any such new laws and regulations that govern the conduct of Global Atlantic's business. Failure to comply with, or to obtain desired authorizations and/or exemptions under, any applicable laws could result in restrictions on Global Atlantic's ability to do business or undertake activities that are regulated in one or more of the jurisdictions in which Global Atlantic operates, could impact Global Atlantic's potential growth and could subject Global Atlantic to fines and other sanctions. In addition, changes in the laws or regulations to which Global Atlantic's insurance and reinsurance subsidiaries are subject, or in the interpretations thereof by enforcement or regulatory agencies, could have a material adverse effect on Global Atlantic's business, results of operations and financial condition. Capital regulations applicable to Global Atlantic's insurance subsidiaries may impose meaningful limitations on Global Atlantic's business. All of Global Atlantic's insurance subsidiaries are subject to minimum capital and surplus requirements. In the United States, Global Atlantic's insurance subsidiaries are subject to RBC standards and other minimum capital and surplus requirements imposed by state laws. The RBC standards are based upon the Risk-Based Capital for Insurers Model Act promulgated by the NAIC as adopted by Global Atlantic's domiciliary insurance regulators. Global Atlantic's Bermuda insurance subsidiaries are subject to Bermuda Solvency Capital Requirements ("BSCR") standards and other minimum capital and surplus requirements imposed by the BMA. See "—Global Atlantic’s Bermuda insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the BMA that may restrict their operations." Any failure to meet applicable requirements or minimum statutory capital requirements could subject Global Atlantic to examination or corrective action by regulators, including limitations on Global Atlantic's writing additional business or engaging in finance activities, supervision, receivership or liquidation. New statutory accounting guidance or change or clarifications in interpretations of existing guidance may adversely impact Global Atlantic's insurance subsidiaries or cause them to increase their required capital. RBC ratios of U.S. retirement and life companies like Global Atlantic are impacted by factors beyond Global Atlantic's control, such as the statutory federal tax rate. Future changes in federal corporate tax rates could similarly impact RBC ratios. In addition, the NAIC from time to time considers changes to factors used in calculating RBC. It is also considering potential changes to RBC formulas to reflect longevity risk and reinsurance ceded to unauthorized reinsurers not supported by collateral. The NAIC has also developed a group capital calculation. It is unclear how the group capital calculation will interact with existing capital requirements for insurance companies in the United States and with international capital standards and it is also unclear how being a subsidiary of KKR will impact the determination of Global Atlantic's "group." It is possible that Global Atlantic may be required to hold additional capital as a result of these developments. In Bermuda, the revised BSCR became effective January 1, 2019 and the BMA continues to consider further revisions. Global Atlantic cannot predict the likelihood of future changes to the BSCR, whether such changes will have an impact on RBC ratios or whether Global Atlantic will need to raise additional capital in response to such changes. If such further revisions materially increase the ECR, it could materially and adversely affect Global Atlantic's BSCR ratio and, correspondingly, Global Atlantic's capital in excess of BMA requirements. An increase in RBC or minimum capital requirements may require Global Atlantic to increase its statutory capital levels, which Global Atlantic might be unable to meet. 122 Moreover, the determination of RBC is based on the NAIC designation of the assets in which Global Atlantic invests. NAIC designation for certain investments depends on the applicable NRSRO rating. If there are changes in an NRSRO's methodology that impacts the rating of a certain type of asset, Global Atlantic's ability to invest in such assets may be impacted and Global Atlantic's investment results may be adversely impacted or Global Atlantic may need to increase its required capital. Changes to comply with new and potential laws or regulations which impose fiduciary or best interest standards in connection with the sale of Global Atlantic's products could materially increase Global Atlantic's costs, decrease its sales and result in a material adverse impact on its business. Regulators continue to propose or adopt fiduciary rules, best interest standards and other similar laws and regulations applicable to the sale of retirement and life insurance products. These rules, standards, laws and regulations generally require advisers providing investment recommendations to act in the client's best interest or put the client's interest ahead of their own interest. Global Atlantic faces uncertainty regarding the adoption of these rules and regulations, including that the SEC, Department of Labor and state insurance departments may adopt potentially conflicting or overlapping standards. These new and proposed regulations may fundamentally change the way financial advisors, agents, and financial institutions do business. These rules may impact the way in which Global Atlantic's products are marketed and offered by its distribution partners, which could have an impact on customer demand, impact the margins Global Atlantic makes on its products or increase compliance costs and burdens. These rules and potential rules could cause a material decline in sales of Global Atlantic's products in the individual channel, such as variable annuities and fixed-indexed annuities. Regulators in enforcement actions and private litigants could also find it easier to attempt to extend fiduciary status to, or to claim fiduciary or contractual breach by, advisors who would not be deemed fiduciaries under current regulations. Such laws and regulations may have a material adverse impact on the industry and may have a material adverse impact on Global Atlantic's business. Global Atlantic's Bermuda insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the BMA that may restrict their operations. The BMA regulates and supervises each of Global Atlantic's Bermuda insurance subsidiaries on a stand-alone basis in Bermuda. The Bermuda Insurance Act and the policies of and/or other codes issued by the BMA relevant to insurers require each of Global Atlantic's Bermuda reinsurance subsidiaries to, among other requirements, to maintain a minimum level of capital and surplus, comply with restrictions on dividends, make financial statement filings, prepare a financial condition report, maintain a head office in Bermuda from which each of Global Atlantic's Bermuda insurance subsidiaries' insurance business will be directed and managed and allow for the performance of certain periodic examinations of its financial condition. These statutes and regulations may restrict Global Atlantic's ability to write insurance and reinsurance policies, distribute funds and pursue its investment strategy. Global Atlantic's Bermuda insurance subsidiaries will be exposed to any changes in the political environment in Bermuda. The Bermuda insurance and reinsurance regulatory framework is subject to scrutiny from many jurisdictions. As a result of such overseas scrutiny, the BMA has implemented and imposed additional requirements on the licensed insurance companies it regulates to achieve equivalence under Solvency II, the solvency regime applicable to the E.U. insurance sector. As such, Bermuda's reinsurance industry operates in a legal and regulatory environment that is deemed to be equivalent with that of the European Union. The BMA's additional requirements resulting from Solvency II equivalence include enhanced solvency and governance requirements imposed on insurers and reinsurers. As part of the additional requirements, the BMA has also established a group solvency framework that could further enhance the required capital and solvency requirements if the BMA is deemed to be the group regulator. There is a risk that if Solvency II were amended in any way, Bermuda may be required to amend its regulatory regime to maintain its equivalence under Solvency II, which could lead to changes in the regulatory regime administered by the BMA. The BMA continues to consider further revisions to the Bermuda capital ratio, called BSCR, and may propose further updates, to certain aspects of the EBS Framework. If any such updates materially increase the capital Global Atlantic's Bermuda insurance subsidiaries must hold. Global Atlantic may not be able to mitigate the reserve strain associated with statutory accounting rules, potentially resulting in a negative impact on Global Atlantic's capital position or in a need to increase prices and/or reduce sales of term or universal life products. The application of certain statutory accounting rules for term life insurance policies with long-term premium guarantees and universal life policies with secondary guarantees requires Global Atlantic to maintain reserves at a level that exceeds what Global Atlantic's insurance subsidiaries' actuarial assumptions for the applicable business would otherwise require. Global Atlantic has special purpose financial captive insurance company subsidiaries ("captives") domiciled in Vermont and Iowa that 123 provide reinsurance to Accordia in order to facilitate the financing of the redundant reserve requirements associated with these statutory accounting rules. These arrangements are subject to review by state insurance regulators and rating agencies. Further changes in such statutory accounting rules will likely make it difficult for Global Atlantic to establish new captive financing arrangements on a basis consistent with its current captives. As a result of these restrictions on financing redundant reserves, the implementation of new captive structures in the future may be less capital-efficient, may lead to lower product returns and/or increased product pricing, or may result in reduced sales of certain products. Certain of the reserve financing facilities Global Atlantic has put in place will mature prior to the run-off of the liabilities they support. As a result, Global Atlantic cannot provide any assurances that it will be able to continue to implement actions either to mitigate the strain of redundant reserves on future sales of term and universal life insurance products or maintain collateral support related to Global Atlantic's captives or existing third-party reinsurance arrangements to which one of Global Atlantic's captive reinsurance subsidiaries is a party. If Global Atlantic is unable to continue to implement those actions or maintain existing collateral support, it may be required to increase statutory reserves or incur higher operating costs than currently anticipated. It is also unclear what additional actions and regulatory changes will result from the continued scrutiny of captive reinsurers and reform efforts by the NAIC and other regulatory bodies. The NAIC is evaluating changes to accounting rules regarding surplus notes with linked assets, a structure used in certain captive reserve financing transactions, and Global Atlantic is monitoring for any changes that may impact its statutory financial statements. If state insurance regulators determine to restrict Global Atlantic's use of captive reinsurers, it could require Global Atlantic to increase statutory reserves, incur higher operating or tax costs or reduce sales. If Global Atlantic is unsuccessful or unable to finance these noneconomic reserves, its competitiveness, capital and financial position and results of operations may be adversely affected. Insurance supervisors in the United States or elsewhere may review Global Atlantic's activities and assert that its Bermuda insurance subsidiaries are subject to additional licensing requirements. Global Atlantic's Bermuda insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation and supervision in Bermuda by the BMA.  In general, Bermuda insurance statutes, regulations and the policies of the BMA are less restrictive than U.S. insurance statutes and regulations. Global Atlantic cannot provide any assurances that insurance supervisors in the United States or elsewhere will not review Global Atlantic's activities and assert that its Bermuda insurance subsidiaries are subject to a U.S. jurisdiction's licensing requirements. In addition, Global Atlantic's Bermuda insurance subsidiaries may be subject to indirect regulatory requirements imposed by jurisdictions that may limit Global Atlantic's ability to provide reinsurance. For example, Global Atlantic's Bermuda insurance subsidiaries' ability to write reinsurance may be subject, in certain cases, to arrangements satisfactory to applicable supervisory bodies, and proposed legislation and regulations may have the effect of imposing additional requirements upon, or restricting the market for, non-U.S. reinsurers such as Global Atlantic. Reinsurance between Global Atlantic's U.S. and Bermuda insurance subsidiaries is subject to approval by the applicable U.S. domiciliary state insurance department, and there can be no guarantee such approval will be obtained. Furthermore, Global Atlantic Re Limited reinsures substantially all of Global Atlantic's variable annuity business. If Global Atlantic Re Limited were no longer able to reinsure such business or if Global Atlantic had to recapture variable annuity business reinsured to Global Atlantic Re Limited due to changes in laws or regulations applicable to Global Atlantic Re Limited, Global Atlantic would likely experience increased fluctuations in its RBC ratio attributable to the sensitivity of variable annuities to changes in equity and interest rate markets. If in the future Global Atlantic's Bermuda insurance subsidiaries were to become subject to regulation under the laws of any state in the United States or the laws of the United States or of any other country, Global Atlantic may consider various alternatives to or restructuring of its operations. If Global Atlantic attempts to license its Bermuda insurance subsidiaries in another jurisdiction, for instance, Global Atlantic may not be able to do so and the modification of the conduct of its business or the noncompliance with insurance statutes and regulations could significantly and negatively affect Global Atlantic's business and results of operations. Changes in regulations relating to reserves, such as implementation of principle-based reserving and implementation of revised mortality tables, could adversely impact Global Atlantic's results of operations. Under principle-based reserving, reserves for life insurance products are no longer required to remain constant and may be updated over time. As a result, principle-based reserving may cause fluctuations to the amount of statutory reserves held. Global Atlantic implemented principle-based reserving for term and universal life with secondary guarantee products sold after January 1, 2017, which resulted in a reduction in the reserves required for these products. Global Atlantic implemented principle-based reserving for all other universal life products effective as of January 1, 2020. Global Atlantic also implemented the 2017 CSO Table, the standard mortality table, to calculate reserves on all products issued on or after January 1, 2020. The NAIC is developing a new principle-based approach for fixed annuities that, if implemented, could result in higher statutory 124 reserves and may cause greater fluctuations in the amount of statutory reserves held. There can be no guarantee as to whether these changes will be implemented or their impact on Global Atlantic’s reserves. Failures elsewhere in the insurance industry could obligate Global Atlantic to pay assessments through guaranty associations, and proposed changes to life insurance guaranty associations could result in increased assessments. All 50 U.S. states, the District of Columbia and the U.S. Virgin Islands have insurance guaranty association laws that require insurance companies doing business in the state to participate in various types of guaranty associations or other similar arrangements. The laws are designed to protect policyholders from losses under insurance policies issued by insurance companies that become impaired or insolvent. Typically, these associations levy assessments, up to prescribed limits, on member insurers on the basis of the member insurer's proportionate share of the business in the relevant jurisdiction in the lines of business in which the impaired or insolvent insurer is engaged. Some jurisdictions permit member insurers to recover assessments that they paid through full or partial premium tax offsets, usually over a period of years. It is possible that a large insolvency could require extraordinary assessments on Global Atlantic's insurance subsidiaries. Global Atlantic cannot predict the amount, nature or timing of any future assessments or legislation, any of which could have a material and adverse impact on Global Atlantic’s results of operations and financial condition. For purposes of guaranty association assessments, long-term care insurance is typically classified as a health insurance product. In December 2017, the NAIC adopted amendments to the Life and Health Insurance Guaranty Association Model Act to provide a fifty-fifty split between life and health insurers for future long-term care insolvencies. A number of states are now considering, or have adopted, legislation to codify the NAIC changes into law, and more states are expected to propose legislation. If these changes become law, the effect may be an increase in future assessments against life insurers such as Global Atlantic’s insurance subsidiaries. 125

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements of KKR & Co. Inc., together with its consolidated subsidiaries, and the related notes included elsewhere in this report. The historical consolidated financial data discussed below reflects the historical results and financial position of KKR and does not reflect the Global Atlantic acquisition. In addition, this discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements and involves numerous risks and uncertainties, including those described under "Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-looking Statements" and "Risk Factors." Actual results may differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Business Environment Economic and Market Conditions Impact of COVID-19. The outbreak of COVID-19 continues to impact the United States and other countries throughout the world. For a description of the impact that COVID-19 had and may in the future have on our business, see "Risk Factors—Risks Related to Our Business—COVID-19 continues to impact the United States and other countries throughout the world, and it has caused and may further cause disruptions to our business and adversely affect our financial results" and "Risk Factors—Risks Related to the Assets We Manage—Our investments are impacted by various economic conditions and events outside of our control that are difficult to quantify or predict, which may have a significant impact on the valuation of our investments and, therefore, on the investment income we realize and our results of operations and financial condition". Economic Conditions . As a global investment firm, we are affected by financial and economic conditions globally. Global and regional economic conditions, including those caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, have substantial impact on our financial condition and results of operations, impacting the values of the investments we make, our ability to exit these investments profitably, our ability to raise capital from investors, and our ability to make new investments. Financial and economic conditions in the United States, European Union, Japan, China, and other major economies are significant contributors to the global economy. In 2021, the United States showed signs of economic improvement driven primarily by government fiscal and monetary support, consumer savings and vaccine rollouts. Inflation, however, is on the rise, driven by multiple factors, including supply chain disruptions, consumer demand, employment levels, and residential vacancy rates. In the United States, real GDP is estimated to have expanded by 5.6% for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to a contraction of 3.4% in the prior year; the U.S. unemployment rate was 3.9% as of December 31, 2021, from 6.7% as of December 31, 2020; the U.S. core consumer price index rose 5.5% on a year-over-year basis as of December 31, 2021, up from 1.6% on a year-over-year basis as of December 31, 2020; and the effective federal funds rate set by the U.S. Federal Reserve was 0.1% as of December 31, 2021, flat from 0.1% as of December 31, 2020. In January 2022, the U.S. Federal Reserve signaled its intention to be more aggressive at the start of the tightening cycle to dampen inflation running broadly through the U.S. economy, leading to significant market volatility.  In February 2022, actions taken by Russia in the Ukraine have also led to uncertainty and volatility. As of February 24, 2022, the VIX ended at 30.3, compared to 17.2 as of December 31, 2021, an increase of 76.1%. The pan-European Stoxx 600 closed down more than 21% since the start of the year; and Brent crude oil prices topped $100 for the first time since 2014. In 2021, the Euro Area rebounded into expansion as real GDP is estimated to have risen by 5.1% for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to a contraction of 6.4% in the prior year; the Euro Area unemployment is estimated to have been 7.2% as of December 31, 2021, down from 8.1% as of December 31, 2020; Euro Area core inflation was 2.6% on a year-over-year basis as of December 31, 2021, up from 0.2% on a year-over-year basis as of December 31, 2020; and the short-term benchmark interest rate set by the European Central Bank was 0.0% as of December 31, 2021, unchanged from December 31, 2020. In 2021, policymakers in China introduced a campaign for “common prosperity” focused on promoting a balance among growth, inclusion, and national security considerations, which could weigh on the outlook for economic growth over the medium term. Also, China’s zero COVID tolerance policies may further impact growth over the near term as outbreaks occur. Estimated real GDP in China grew by 8.0% for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to growth of 2.2% reported for the year ended December 31, 2020. Estimated core inflation in China was 1.0% on a year-over-year basis as of December 31, 2021, down from 2.5% on a year-over-year basis as of December 31, 2020. In Japan, the economy has begun to embark on post-pandemic economic recovery. In Japan, real GDP growth for the year ended December 31, 2021 is estimated to be 1.8%, up from -4.6% for the year ended December 31, 2020. Core inflation on a year-over-year basis in Japan is estimated to have been -0.2% as of December 31, 2021, down from 0% on a year-over-year basis as of December 31, 2020. In Japan, the short-term benchmark interest rate set by the Bank of Japan was -0.1% as of December 31, 2021, unchanged from December 31, 2020. 130 These and other key issues could have repercussions across regional and global financial markets, which could adversely affect the valuations of our investments. In particular, in response to persistent inflationary pressure, short- and medium-term interest rates may rise, which may adversely impact equity and credit markets and in turn both increase volatility in equity and debt markets and reduce economic growth. As noted above, the U.S. Federal Reserve has indicated that it is prepared to take action to manage inflation, including raising interests rates, tapering its asset purchases and shrinking the size of its balance sheet.  In addition, commodity prices are generally expected to rise in inflationary environments, and foreign exchange rates are often affected by countries monetary and fiscal responses to inflationary trends.  The Russian-Ukraine conflict, including the  sanctions imposed in response to Russia's actions in February 2022, may exacerbate these issues and trends.  Other key issues include (i) further developments regarding COVID-19, including the spread of variants such as Delta and Omicron, which may prolong the adverse economic impact of the pandemic on the U.S. and global economies, including supply chain disruptions that promote cost inflation for critical goods and labor shortages, (ii) geopolitical uncertainty such as U.S.-China relations, (iii) political uncertainty caused by, among other things, economic nationalist sentiments, tensions surrounding socioeconomic inequality issues, and partisan sentiments in the United States, all of which have potentially global ramifications with regards to policy, (iv) regulatory changes regarding, for example, taxation, international trade, cross-border investments, immigration, stimulus programs and rising levels of debt, (v) increased volatility and/or downturn in equity or credit markets, (vi) unexpected shifts in central banks' monetary policies, and (vii) technological advancements and innovations that may disrupt marketplaces and businesses. For a further discussion of how market conditions may affect our businesses, see "Risk Factors—Risks Related to Our Business—Difficult market and economic conditions can adversely affect our business in many ways, including by reducing the value or performance of the investments that we manage or by reducing the ability of our funds to raise or deploy capital, each of which could negatively impact our net income and cash flow and adversely affect our financial condition."  In addition, the U.S. Congress is proposing (and after the date of this report may propose other) various significant changes in tax law, including significant changes in the way U.S. corporations like ourselves and many of our U.S. portfolio companies are taxed. If enacted, these changes could materially increase the amount of taxes we and our portfolio companies are required to pay. See “Risk Factors—Risks Related to Our Business—Changes in relevant tax laws, regulations or treaties or an adverse interpretation of these items by tax authorities could adversely impact our effective tax rate and tax liability.” Equity and Credit Markets . Global equity and credit markets have a substantial effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In general, a climate of reasonable interest rates and high levels of liquidity in the debt and equity capital markets provide a positive environment for us to generate attractive investment returns, which also impacts our ability to generate incentive fees and carried interest. Periods of volatility and dislocation in the capital markets raise substantial risks, but also can present us with opportunities to invest at reduced valuations that position us for future growth and investment returns. Low interest rates related to monetary stimulus and economic stagnation may negatively impact expected returns on all types of investments. Higher interest rates in conjunction with slower growth or weaker currencies in some emerging market economies have caused, and may further cause, the default risk of these countries to increase, and this could impact the operations or value of our investments that operate in these regions. Areas that have ongoing central bank quantitative easing campaigns and comparatively low interest rates relative to the United States could potentially experience further currency volatility and weakness relative to the U.S. dollar. With respect to our insurance business, fluctuations in market interest rates can expose Global Atlantic to the risk of reduced income in respect of its investment portfolio, increases in the cost of acquiring or maintaining its insurance liabilities, increases in the cost of hedging, or other fluctuations in Global Atlantic's financial, capital and operating profile which materially and adversely affect the business. Higher interest rates, periods of changes in rates and lower rates each may result in differing impacts on Global Atlantic’s business. See "Risk Factors—Risks Related to Global Atlantic— Interest rate fluctuations and sustained periods of low or high interest rates could adversely affect Global Atlantic’s business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations, cash flows and prospects." In our asset management business, many of our investments are in equities, so a change in global equity prices or in market volatility directly impacts the value of our investments and our profitability as well as our ability to realize investment gains and the receptiveness of fund investors to our investment products. For the year ended December 31, 2021, global equity markets were positive, with the S&P 500 up 29.5% and the MSCI World Index up 22.5% on a total return basis including dividends. Equity market volatility as evidenced by the Chicago Board Options Exchange Market Volatility Index (VIX), a measure of volatility, ended at 17.2 as of December 31, 2021, decreasing from 22.8 as of December 31, 2020.  See above for volatility that occurred after the year-end.  For a discussion of our valuation methods, see “Risk Factors—Risks Related to the Assets We Manage—Our investments are impacted by various economic conditions and events outside of our control that are difficult to quantify or predict, which may have a significant impact on the valuation of our investments and, therefore, on the investment income we realize and our results of operations and financial condition” and see also “—Critical Accounting Policies—Fair Value Measurements—Level III Valuation Methodologies.” In our insurance business, a change in equity prices also impacts Global Atlantic’s equity-sensitive annuity and life insurance products, including with respect to hedging costs related to and fee-income earned on those products. 131 Many of our investments, particularly in asset management, are in non-investment grade credit instruments, and, particularly in insurance, in investment grade credit instruments. Our funds, our portfolio companies and Global Atlantic also rely on credit financing and the ability to refinance existing debt.  Consequently, any decrease in the value of credit instruments that we have invested in or any increase in the cost of credit financing reduces our returns and decreases our net income. Due in part to holdings of credit instruments such as CLOs on our balance sheet, the performance of the credit markets has had an amplified impact on our financial results, as we directly bear the full extent of losses from credit instruments on our balance sheet. Credit markets can also impact valuations because a discounted cash flow analysis is generally used as one of the methodologies to ascertain the fair value of our investments that do not have readily observable market prices. In addition, with respect to our credit instruments, tightening credit spreads are generally expected to lead to an increase, and widening credit spreads are generally expected to lead to a decrease, in the value of these credit investments, if not offset by hedging or other factors. In addition, the significant widening of credit spreads is also typically expected to negatively impact equity markets, which in turn would negatively impact our portfolio and us as noted above. Conversely, widening credit spreads may have a positive impact on our insurance business, as the margin Global Atlantic is able to earn between crediting rates offered on its insurance products and the investment income it earns from its credit investments should increase, and tightening credit spreads may negatively impact the pricing and therefore competitiveness of Global Atlantic’s products, adversely impacting sales and growth, or may negatively impact the margins that Global Atlantic earns on sales and transactions. During the year ended December 31, 2021, U.S. investment grade corporate bond spreads (BofA Merrill Lynch US Corporate Index) tightened by 5 basis points and U.S. high-yield corporate bond spreads (BofAML HY Master II Index) tightened by 77 basis points. In response to the U.S. Federal Reserve's change in tone and heightened geopolitical tensions in relation to Russia and Ukraine, these trends reversed in 2022 to date through February 24, with U.S. investment grade corporate bond spreads (BofA Merrill Lynch US Corporate Index) widening by 34 basis points and the U.S. high-yield corporate bond spreads (BofAML HY Master II Index) widening by 83 basis points.  The non-investment grade credit indices were up during the year ended December 31, 2021, with the S&P/LSTA Leveraged Loan Index up 5.2% and the BAML US High Yield Index up 5.4%. During the year ended December 31, 2021, 10-year government bond yields rose 60 basis points in the United States, rose 77 basis points in the United Kingdom, rose 39 basis points in Germany, fell 37 basis points in China, and rose 5 basis points in Japan. For a further discussion of how market conditions may affect our businesses, see “Risk Factors—Risks Related to Our Business—Difficult market and economic conditions can adversely affect our business in many ways, including by reducing the value or performance of the investments that we manage or by reducing the ability of our funds to raise or deploy capital, each of which could negatively impact our net income and cash flow and adversely affect our financial condition” and “Risk Factors—Risks Related to the Assets We Manage—Our investments are impacted by various economic conditions and events outside of our control that are difficult to quantify or predict, which may have a significant impact on the valuation of our investments and, therefore, on the investment income we realize and our results of operations and financial condition.” For further discussion of the impact of global credit markets on our financial condition and results of operations, see "Risk Factors—Risks Related to the Assets We Manage—Changes in the debt financing markets may negatively impact the ability of our investment funds, their portfolio companies and strategies pursued with our balance sheet assets to obtain attractive financing for their investments or to refinance existing debt and may increase the cost of such financing or refinancing if it is obtained, which could lead to lower-yielding investments and potentially decrease our net income," "Risk Factors—Risks Related to the Assets We Manage—Our investments are impacted by various economic conditions and events outside of our control that are difficult to quantify or predict, which may have a significant impact on the valuation of our investments and, therefore, on the investment income we realize and our results of operations and financial condition," "Risk Factors—Risks Related to the Assets We Manage—Our funds and our firm through our balance sheet may make a limited number of investments, or investments that are concentrated in certain issuers, geographic regions or asset types, which could negatively affect our performance or the performance of our funds to the extent those concentrated assets perform poorly" and "Risk Factors—Risks Related to Global Atlantic—Interest rate fluctuations and sustained periods of low or high interest rates could adversely affect Global Atlantic’s business, financial condition, liquidity, results of operations, cash flows and prospects." For a further discussion of our valuation methods, see "—Critical Accounting Policies—Fair Value Measurements—Level III Valuation Methodologies." Foreign Exchange Rates . Foreign exchange rates have a substantial impact on the valuations of our investments that are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Currency volatility can also affect our businesses and investments that deal in cross-border trade. The appreciation or depreciation of the U.S. dollar is expected to contribute to a decrease or increase, respectively, in the U.S. dollar value of our non-U.S. investments to the extent unhedged. In addition, an appreciating U.S. dollar would be expected to make the exports of U.S. based companies less competitive, which may lead to a decline in their export revenues, if any, while a depreciating U.S. dollar would be expected to have the opposite effect. Moreover, when selecting investments for our investment funds that are denominated in U.S. dollars, an appreciating U.S. dollar may create opportunities to invest at more attractive U.S. dollar prices in certain countries outside of the United States, while a depreciating U.S. dollar would be expected to have the opposite effect. For our investments denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, the depreciation in such currencies will generally contribute to the decrease in the valuation of such investments, to the extent unhedged, and adversely affect the U.S. dollar equivalent revenues of portfolio companies with substantial revenues 132 denominated in such currencies, while the appreciation in such currencies would be expected to have the opposite effect. For the year ended December 31, 2021, the euro fell 6.9%, the British pound fell 1.0%, the Japanese yen fell 10.3%, and the Chinese renminbi rose 2.7%, respectively, relative to the U.S. dollar. For additional information regarding our foreign exchange rate risk, see “Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk—Exchange Rate Risk.” Commodity Markets . Our Private Markets portfolio contains energy real asset investments, and certain of our other Private Markets and Public Markets strategies have investments in or related to the energy sector. The value of these investments is heavily influenced by the price of natural gas and oil. During the year ended December 31, 2021, the 3-year forward price of WTI crude oil increased approximately 37%, and the 3-year forward price of natural gas increased approximately 17%. The 3-year forward price of WTI crude oil increased from approximately $46 per barrel to $63 per barrel, and the 3-year forward price of natural gas increased from approximately $2.47 per mcf to $3.13 per mcf as of December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2021, respectively. As noted above, the actions taken by Russia in the Ukraine in February 2022 have also caused volatility in the commodities markets.  As of February 24, 2022, the 3-year forward price of WTI crude oil increased approximately 16%, to $73 per barrel, and the 3-year forward price of natural gas increased approximately 11% to $3.47 per mcf. Additionally, the front month contract for WTI crude oil settled at $92 per barrel, also a level not seen since 2014. When commodity prices decline or if a decline is not offset by other factors, we would expect the value of our energy real asset investments to be adversely impacted, to the extent unhedged.  In general, we expect downward price movements to have a negative impact on the fair value of our energy portfolio, all other things being equal, given those commodity prices are an input in our valuation models. The reverse is true for upward price movements.  However, because we typically use near-term commodity derivative transactions to hedge our exposures, we expect long-term oil and natural gas prices to be a more significant driver of the valuation of our energy investments in asset management than spot prices.  In addition, to the extent energy real asset investments are directly held by our balance sheet, price movements can have an amplified impact on our financial results, as we would directly bear the full extent of such gains or losses, subject to hedging.  However, as of December 31, 2021, energy investments in oil and gas assets made up only approximately 1% of our assets under management, 1% of our total GAAP assets and 1% of our total segment assets.  For additional information regarding our energy real assets, see "—Critical Accounting Policies—Fair Value Measurements—Level III Valuation Methodologies—Real Asset Investments" and see also "Risk Factors—Risks Related to the Assets We Manage—Our funds and our firm through our balance sheet may make a limited number of investments, or investments that are concentrated in certain issuers, geographic regions or asset types, which could negatively affect our performance or the performance of our funds to the extent those concentrated assets perform poorly." Business Conditions Our operating revenues consist of fees, performance income and investment income. Our ability to grow our revenues depends in part on our ability to attract new capital and investors, our successful deployment of capital including from our balance sheet and our ability to realize investments at a profit. Our ability to attract new capital and investors. Our ability to attract new capital and investors in our funds is driven, in part, by the extent to which they continue to see the alternative asset management industry generally, and our investment products specifically, as attractive means for capital appreciation or income. In addition, our ability to attract new capital and investors in our insurance business is driven, in part, by the extent to which they continue to see the life and annuity insurance industry generally, and in certain cases our re-insurance vehicles, as attractive means for capital appreciation or income.  Since 2010, we have expanded into strategies such as real assets, credit, core, impact and, through hedge fund partnerships, hedge funds, and insurance. In several of our asset management strategies, our first time funds have begun raising successor funds, and we expect the cost of raising such successor funds to be lower. We have also reached out to new fund investors, including retail and high net worth investors. However, fundraising continues to be competitive. While our Asian Fund IV, European Fund V, North America Fund XIII, Real Estate Partners Americas III, Real Estate Partners Europe II, Global Infrastructure Investors IV, Next Generation Technology Growth Fund II and Health Care Strategic Growth Fund II exceeded the size of their respective predecessor funds, there is no assurance that fundraises for our other flagship investment funds or vehicles or for our newer strategies and their successor funds will experience similar success. If we are unable to successfully raise comparably sized or larger funds, our AUM, FPAUM, and associated fees attributable to new capital raised in future periods may be lower than in prior years. See "Risk Factors—Risks Related to Our Business—Our inability to raise additional or successor funds (or raise successor funds of a comparable size as our predecessor funds) could have a material adverse impact on our business." Our ability to successfully deploy capital. Our ability to maintain and grow our revenue base is dependent upon our ability to successfully deploy the capital available to us as well as our participation in capital markets transactions. Greater competition, high valuations, increased overall cost of credit and other general market conditions may impact our ability to 133 identify and execute attractive investments. Additionally, because we seek to make investments that have an ability to achieve our targeted returns while taking on a reasonable level of risk, we may experience periods of reduced investment activity. We have a long-term investment horizon and the capital deployed in any one quarter may vary significantly from the capital deployed in any other quarter or the quarterly average of capital deployed in any given year. Reduced levels of transaction activity also tends to result in reduced potential future investment gains, lower transaction fees and lower fees for our capital markets business line, which may earn fees in the syndication of equity or debt.  In our insurance business, we deploy capital by investing in assets that are anticipated to generate net investment income in excess of the net cost of insurance. If we are unable to originate or source attractive investments, the success and growth in revenues of our insurance business will be adversely impacted.  See “Risk Factors—Risks Related to the Assets We Manage—Changes in the debt financing markets may negatively impact the ability of our investment funds, their portfolio companies and strategies pursued with our balance sheet assets to obtain attractive financing for their investments or to refinance existing debt and may increase the cost of such financing or refinancing if it is obtained, which could lead to lower-yielding investments and potentially decrease our net income.” Our ability to realize investments. Challenging market and economic conditions may adversely affect our ability to exit and realize value from our investments and result in lower-than-expected returns. Although the equity markets are not the only means by which we exit investments from our funds, the strength and liquidity of the U.S. and relevant global equity markets generally, and the initial public offering market specifically, affect the valuation of, and our ability to successfully exit, our equity positions in the portfolio companies of our funds in a timely manner. We may also realize investments through strategic sales. When financing is not available or becomes too costly, it may be more difficult to find a buyer that can successfully raise sufficient capital to purchase our investments.  In addition, volatile debt and equity markets may also make the exit of our investments more difficult to execute. In our insurance business, we depend on the ability of our investments to generate their anticipated returns, through the payment of interest and dividends and interest as well as return of principal, in the amounts and at the times that we expect them to be made in order to manage our obligations to make payments to our policyholders. If policyholder behavior differs from our expectations, we may be forced to sell our investments earlier than we anticipated and during market conditions where we may realize losses on the investment. In addition, material delays in payments or impairments to our anticipated investment returns could have material adverse effects to our results of operations.  For additional information about how business environment and market conditions affect Global Atlantic, see "—Global Atlantic's Investment Portfolio." Basis of Accounting We consolidate the financial results of KKR Group Partnership and its consolidated entities, which include the accounts of our investment advisers, broker-dealers, Global Atlantic’s insurance companies, the general partners of certain unconsolidated investment funds, general partners of consolidated investment funds and their respective consolidated investment funds and certain other entities including collateralized financing entities ("CFEs"). When an entity is consolidated, we reflect the accounts of the consolidated entity, including its assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses, investment income, cash flows and other amounts, on a gross basis. While the consolidation of an investment fund or entity does not have an effect on the amounts of Net Income Attributable to KKR or KKR's stockholders' equity that KKR reports, the consolidation does significantly impact the financial statement presentation under GAAP. This is due to the fact that the accounts of the consolidated entities are reflected on a gross basis while the allocable share of those amounts that are attributable to third parties are reflected as single line items. The single line items in which the accounts attributable to third parties are recorded are presented as noncontrolling interests on the consolidated statements of financial condition and net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests on the consolidated statements of operations. The presentation in the financial statements reflect the significant industry diversification of KKR by its acquisition of  Global Atlantic. Global Atlantic operates an insurance business, and KKR operates an asset management business, each of which possess distinct characteristics. As a result, KKR developed a two-tiered presentation approach for the financial statements in this Management's Discussion and Analysis. KKR believes that these separate presentations provide a more informative view of the consolidated financial position and results of operations than traditional aggregated presentations. KKR believes that reporting Global Atlantic’s insurance operations separately is appropriate given, among other factors, the relative significance of Global Atlantic’s policy liabilities, which are not obligations of KKR (other than the insurance companies that issued them). If a traditional aggregated presentation were to be used, KKR would expect to eliminate or combine several identical or similar captions, which would condense the presentations but would reduce transparency. KKR also believes that using a traditional aggregated presentation would result in no new line items compared to the two-tier presentation included in the financial statements in this report. We acquired Global Atlantic on February 1, 2021; accordingly, the results of Global Atlantic's insurance operations included in our consolidated results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2021 are from February 1, 2021 (the closing date of the acquisition) through December 31, 2021. All the intercompany transactions have been eliminated. 134 For a further discussion of our consolidation policies, see Note 2 "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" in our financial statements. The summary of the significant accounting policies has been organized considering the two-tiered approach described above and includes a section for common accounting policies and an accounting policy section for each of the two tiers when a policy is specific to one of the tiers. Key Financial Measures Under GAAP - Asset Management The following discussion of key financial measures under GAAP is based on KKR's asset management business as of December 31, 2021. Revenues Fees and Other Fees and other consist primarily of (i) management and incentive fees from providing investment management services to unconsolidated funds, CLOs, other vehicles, and separately managed accounts; (ii) transaction fees earned in connection with successful investment transactions and from capital markets activities; (iii) monitoring fees from providing services to portfolio companies; (iv) expense reimbursements from certain investment funds and portfolio companies; (v) revenue earned by oil and gas entities that are consolidated; and (vi) consulting fees. These fees are based on the contractual terms of the governing agreements and are recognized when earned, which coincides with the period during which the related services are performed and in the case of transaction fees, upon closing of the transaction. Monitoring fees may provide for a termination payment following an initial public offering or change of control. These termination payments are recognized in the period when the related transaction closes. Capital Allocation-Based Income (Loss) Capital allocation-based income (loss) is earned from those arrangements whereby KKR serves as general partner and includes income or loss from KKR's capital interest as well as "carried interest" which entitles KKR to a disproportionate allocation of investment income or loss from an investment fund's limited partners. For a further discussion of our revenue policies, see Note 2 "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" in our financial statements included elsewhere in this report. Expenses Compensation and Benefits Compensation and Benefits expense includes (i) base cash compensation consisting of salaries and wages, (ii) benefits, (iii) carry pool allocations, (iv) equity-based compensation, and (v) discretionary cash bonuses. To supplement base cash compensation, benefits, carry pool allocations, and equity-based compensation, we typically pay discretionary cash bonuses, which are included in Compensation and Benefits expense in the consolidated statements of operations, based principally on the level of (i) management fees and other fee revenues (including incentive fees), (ii) realized carried interest and (iii) realized investment income earned during the year. The amounts paid as discretionary cash bonuses, if any, are at our sole discretion and vary from individual to individual and from period to period, including having no cash bonus. We accrue discretionary cash bonuses when payment becomes probable and reasonably estimable which is generally in the period when we make the decision to pay discretionary cash bonuses and is based upon a number of factors, including the recognition of fee revenues, realized carried interest, realized investment income and other factors determined during the year. Beginning in 2021, we expect to pay our employees by assigning a percentage range to each component of asset management segment revenues.  Based on the current components and blend of our asset management segment revenues on an annual basis, we expect to use approximately: (i)  20‐25% of fee related revenues, (ii) 60‐70% of realized carried interest and incentive fees not included in fee related performance revenues or earned from our hedge fund partnerships, and (iii) 10‐20% of realized investment income and hedge fund partnership incentive fees to pay our asset management employees. Because these ranges are applied to applicable distributable revenue components independently, and on an annual basis, the amount paid as a percentage of total distributable revenues will vary and will, for example, likely be higher in a period with relatively higher realized carried interest and lower in a period with relatively lower realized carried interest. We decide whether to pay a discretionary cash bonus and determine the percentage of applicable revenue components to pay compensation only upon the 135 occurrence of the realization event.  There is no contractual or other binding obligation that requires us to pay a discretionary cash bonus to the asset management employees, except in limited circumstances. Assuming that we had accrued compensation of (i) 65% of the unrealized carried interest earned by the funds that allocate 40% and 43% to the carry pool and (ii) 15% of the unrealized net gains in our Principal Activities business line (in each case at the mid-point of the ranges above), KKR & Co. Inc. Stockholders’ Equity – Series I and II Preferred, Common Stock as of December 31, 2021 would have been reduced by approximately $2.66 per share, compared to our reported $27.64 per share on such date, and our book value as of December 31, 2021 would have been reduced by approximately $2.58 per adjusted share, compared to our reported book value of $28.77 per adjusted share on such date. Carry Pool Allocation With respect to our funds that provide for carried interest, we allocate a portion of the realized and unrealized carried interest that we earn to a carry pool established at KKR Associates Holdings L.P., which is not a KKR subsidiary, from which our asset management employees and certain other carry pool participants are eligible to receive a carried interest allocation. The allocation is determined based upon a fixed arrangement between KKR Associates Holdings and us, and we do not exercise discretion on whether to make an allocation to the carry pool upon a realization event. These amounts are accounted for as compensatory profit sharing arrangements in Accrued Expenses and Other Liabilities within the accompanying consolidated statements of financial condition in conjunction with the related carried interest income and are recorded as compensation expense. Upon a reversal of carried interest income, the related carry pool allocation, if any, is also reversed. Accordingly, such compensation expense is subject to both positive and negative adjustments. In February 2021, with the approval of a majority of our independent directors, KKR amended the percentage of carried interest that is allocable to the carry pool to 65% for (i) current investment funds for which no or de minimis amounts of carried interest was accrued as of December 31, 2020 and (ii) all future funds. For all other funds, the percentage of carried interest remains 40% or 43%, as applicable. The percentage of carried interest allocable to the carry pool may be increased above 65% only with the approval of a majority of our independent directors. To account for the difference in the carry pool allocation percentages, we expect to use a portion of realized carried interest from the older funds equal to the difference between 65% and 40% or 43%, as applicable, to supplement the carry pool and to pay amounts as discretionary cash bonus compensation as described above to our asset management employees. The amounts paid as discretionary cash bonuses, if any, are at our discretion and vary from individual to individual and from period to period, including having no cash bonus at all for certain employees.  See "—Critical Accounting Policies - Asset Management—Recognition of Carried Interest in the Statement of Operations" and "—Key Financial Measures Under GAAP - Asset Management—Expenses—Compensation and Benefits." On the Sunset Date (as defined in the Reorganization Agreement), KKR will acquire control of KKR Associates Holdings and will commence making decisions regarding the allocation of carry proceeds pursuant to the limited partnership agreement of KKR Associates Holdings.  Until the Sunset Date, our Co-Founders will continue to make decisions regarding the allocation of carry proceeds to themselves and others, pursuant to the limited partnership agreement of KKR Associates Holdings, provided that any allocation of carry proceeds to the Co-Founders will be on a percentage basis consistent with past practice. Equity-based Compensation In addition to the cash-based compensation and carry pool allocations as described above, employees receive equity awards under our Equity Incentive Plans, most of which are subject to service-based vesting typically over a three to five-year period from the date of grant, and some of which are also subject to the achievement of market-based conditions. Certain of these awards are subject to post-vesting transfer restrictions and minimum retained ownership requirements. General, Administrative and Other General, administrative and other expense consists primarily of professional fees paid to legal advisors, accountants, advisors and consultants, insurance costs, travel and related expenses, communications and information services, depreciation and amortization charges, expenses incurred by oil and gas entities, CLOs and investment funds that are consolidated, costs incurred in connection with pursuing potential investments that do not result in completed transactions ("broken-deal expenses"), expense reimbursements, placement fees and other general operating expenses. A portion of these general administrative and other expenses, in particular broken-deal expenses, are borne by fund investors. 136 Investment Income (Loss) Net Gains (Losses) from Investment Activities Net gains (losses) from investment activities consist of realized and unrealized gains and losses arising from our investment activities as well as income earned from certain equity method investments. Fluctuations in net gains (losses) from investment activities between reporting periods is driven primarily by changes in the fair value of our investment portfolio as well as the realization of investments. The fair value of, as well as the ability to recognize gains from, our investments is significantly impacted by the global financial markets, which, in turn, affects the net gains (losses) from investment activities recognized in any given period. Upon the disposition of an investment, previously recognized unrealized gains and losses are reversed and an offsetting realized gain or loss is recognized in the current period. Since our investments are carried at fair value, fluctuations between periods could be significant due to changes to the inputs to our valuation process over time. For a further discussion of our fair value measurements and fair value of investments, see "—Critical Accounting Policies - Combined—Fair Value Measurements." Dividend Income Dividend income consists primarily of distributions that we and our consolidated investment funds receive from portfolio companies or real assets investments in which we and our consolidated investment funds invest. Dividend income is recognized primarily in connection with (i) dispositions of operations by portfolio companies, (ii) distributions of cash generated from operations from portfolio investments or real assets investments, and (iii) other significant refinancings undertaken by portfolio investments. Interest Income Interest income consists primarily of interest that is received on our credit instruments in which we and our consolidated investment funds, CLOs and other entities invest as well as interest on our cash and other investments. Interest Expense Interest expense is incurred from (i) debt issued by KKR, including debt issued by KFN, (ii) credit facilities entered into by KKR, (iii) debt securities issued by consolidated CFEs, (iv) financing arrangements at our majority owned investment vehicles that have been funded with borrowings that are collateralized by the investments and assets they own and (v) financing arrangements at our consolidated funds entered into primarily with the objective of managing cash flow. KFN's debt obligations are non-recourse to KKR beyond the assets of KFN. Debt securities issued by consolidated CFEs are supported solely by the investments held at the CFE and are not collateralized by assets of any other KKR entity. Our obligations under financing arrangements at our consolidated investment funds are generally limited to our pro rata equity interest in such funds. However, in some circumstances, we may provide limited guarantees of the obligations of our general partners in an amount equal to its pro rata equity interest in such funds. Our management companies bear no obligations with respect to financing arrangements at our consolidated funds. We also may provide other kinds of guarantees. See "—Liquidity." Key Financial Measures Under GAAP - Insurance The following discussion of key financial measures under GAAP is based on KKR's insurance business as conducted by Global Atlantic as of December 31, 2021. Revenues Premiums Premiums primarily relate to payout annuities with life contingencies and whole life and term life insurance policies, recognized when due from the policyholders. Premiums are reported net of premiums ceded under reinsurance agreements. Policy fees Policy fees include charges assessed against policyholder account balances for mortality, administration, separate account, benefit rider and surrender fees. Net investment income 137 Net investment income reflects the income earned on our investments, net of any associated investment expenses (including management fees charged by the asset management segment) and net of ceded amounts under reinsurance agreements. Net investment income includes, amongst other things (i) interest earned on our fixed income available-for-sale and fixed-income trading investments, (ii) interest income and other related fees from our mortgage and other loan receivables, (iii) interest on funds withheld at interest receivables, (iv) proportional share of income from equity-method investments and (v) income from physical assets, such as renewable energy plants, railcars, and airplanes (net of depreciation and operating expenses). Net investment-related gains Net investment-related gains primarily consists of (i) realized gains and losses from the disposal of investments, including realized gains and losses on the disposal of investments not related to asset/liability matching strategies (“variable investment income”), (ii) unrealized gains and losses from investments held for trading, or fair value remeasurements recognized in earnings as a result of the election of a fair-value option, (iii) unrealized gains and losses on funds withheld at interest receivable and payable, (iv) unrealized gains and losses from derivatives not designated in an hedging relationship and (v) allowances for credit losses, and other impairments of investments. Other income Other income is primarily comprised of expense allowances on ceded reinsurance, administration, management fees and distribution fees. Expenses Policy benefits and claims Policy benefits and claims represent the current period expense associated with providing insurance benefits to policyholders, including claims and benefits paid, interest credited to policyholders, changes in policy liability reserves (including fair value reserves), amortization of cost of reinsurance liabilities, and amortization of deferred sales inducements. Amortization of policy acquisition costs Amortization of policy acquisition costs primarily consist on amortization of value of business acquired and deferred policy acquisition costs. Insurance expense Insurance expenses are primarily comprised of commissions expense, net of amounts capitalized, reinsurance ceding allowances, premium taxes, amortization of acquired intangibles and captive financing charges. Interest expense Interest expense is incurred from insurance segment debt issued, including related interest rate swaps, credit facilities and other financing agreements. General, administrative and other General, administrative and other expenses are primarily comprised of employee compensation and benefit expenses, third-party administrator, or "TPA," policy servicing fees, administrative and professional services, and other operating expenses. Other Key Financial Measures Under GAAP Income Taxes KKR & Co. Inc. is a domestic corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes and is subject to U.S. federal, state and local income taxes at the entity level on its share of taxable income. In addition, KKR Group Partnership and certain of its subsidiaries operate as partnerships for U.S. federal tax purposes but as taxable entities for certain state, local or non-U.S. tax purposes. Moreover, certain corporate subsidiaries of KKR, including certain Global Atlantic subsidiaries, are domestic corporations for U.S. federal income tax purposes and are subject to U.S. federal, state, and local income taxes. 138 Tax laws are complex and subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and respective governmental taxing authorities. Significant judgment is required in determining tax expense and in evaluating tax positions including evaluating uncertainties. We review our tax positions quarterly and adjust our tax balances as new information becomes available. For a further discussion of our income tax policies, see Note 2 "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" and Note 18 "Income Taxes" in our financial statements. Net Income (Loss) Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests primarily represents the ownership interests that certain third parties hold in entities that are consolidated in the financial statements as well as the ownership interests in KKR Group Partnership that are held by KKR Holdings (and holders of other exchangeable securities). The allocable share of income and expense attributable to these interests is accounted for as net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests. Given the consolidation of certain of our investment funds and the significant ownership interests in KKR Group Partnership held by KKR Holdings, we expect a portion of net income (loss) will continue to be attributed to noncontrolling interests in our business. For a further discussion of our noncontrolling interests policies, see Note 22 "Equity" in the financial statements. Key Segment and Non-GAAP Performance Measures The following key segment and non-GAAP performance measures are used by management in making operational and resource deployment decisions as well as assessing the performance of KKR's businesses. They include certain financial measures that are calculated and presented using methodologies other than in accordance with GAAP.  These performance measures as described below are presented prior to giving effect to the allocation of income (loss) between KKR & Co. Inc. and KKR Holdings L.P. (and holders of other exchangeable securities) and as such represent the entire KKR business in total. In addition, these performance measures are presented without giving effect to the consolidation of the investment funds and collateralized financing entities (“CFEs”) that KKR manages. We believe that providing these segment and non-GAAP performance measures on a supplemental basis to our GAAP results is helpful to stockholders in assessing the overall performance of KKR's business. These non-GAAP measures should not be considered as a substitute for financial measures calculated in accordance with GAAP. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP, where applicable are included under "—Reconciliations to GAAP Measures." After-tax Distributable Earnings After-tax distributable earnings is a non-GAAP performance measure of KKR’s earnings, which is derived from KKR’s reported segment results. After-tax distributable earnings is used to assess the performance of KKR’s business operations and measures the earnings potentially available for distribution to its equity holders or reinvestment into its business. After-tax distributable earnings is equal to Distributable Operating Earnings less Interest Expense, Series A and B Preferred Stock dividends (which have been redeemed), Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests and Income Taxes Paid. Series C Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock dividends have been excluded from After-tax Distributable Earnings, because the definition of Adjusted Shares used to calculate After-tax Distributable Earnings per Adjusted Share assumes that all shares of Series C Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock have been converted to shares of common stock. Income Taxes Paid represents the implied amount of income taxes that would be paid assuming that all pre-tax distributable earnings were allocated to KKR & Co. Inc. and taxed at the same effective rate, which assumes that all units in KKR Holdings L.P. and other exchangeable securities were exchanged for common stock of KKR & Co. Inc. Income Taxes Paid includes amounts paid pursuant to the tax receivable agreement and the benefit of tax deductions arising from equity-based compensation, which reduces income taxes paid or payable during the period. Equity-based compensation expense is excluded from After-tax Distributable Earnings, because (i) KKR believes that the cost of equity awards granted to employees does not contribute to the earnings potentially available for distributions to its equity holders or reinvestment into its business and (ii) excluding this expense makes KKR’s reporting metric more comparable to the corresponding metric presented by other publicly traded companies in KKR’s industry, which KKR believes enhances an investor’s ability to compare KKR’s performance to these other companies. If tax deductions from equity-based compensation were to be excluded from Income Taxes Paid, KKR’s After-tax Distributable Earnings would be lower and KKR’s effective tax rate would appear to be higher, even though a lower amount of income taxes would have actually been paid or payable during the period. KKR separately discloses the amount of tax deduction from equity-based compensation for the period reported and the effect of its inclusion in After-tax Distributable Earnings for the period. KKR makes these adjustments when calculating After-tax Distributable Earnings in order to more 139 accurately reflect the net realized earnings that are expected to be or become available for distribution to KKR’s equity holders or reinvestment into KKR’s business. However, After-tax Distributable Earnings does not represent and is not used to calculate actual dividends under KKR’s dividend policy, which is a fixed amount per period, and After-tax Distributable Earnings should not be viewed as a measure of KKR’s liquidity. Book Value Book Value is a non‐GAAP performance measure of the net assets of KKR and is used by management primarily in assessing the unrealized value of KKR’s net assets presented on a basis that (i) deconsolidates KKR’s investment funds and CFEs that KKR manages, (ii) includes the net assets that are attributable to KKR Holdings L.P., and (iii) includes KKR’s ownership of the net assets of Global Atlantic. We believe this measure is useful to stockholders as it provides additional insight into the net assets of KKR excluding those net assets that are allocated to the investors of KKR funds and other noncontrolling interest holders and to the holders of preferred stock. KKR's book value includes (x) the net impact of KKR's tax assets and liabilities as prepared under GAAP and (y) the implied amount of (1) tax assets and liabilities attributable to KKR Holdings L.P. as if it was subject to corporate income taxes and (2) the recognition of deferred tax liabilities relating to certain assets of KKR Group Partnership L.P. that is expected to occur upon the completion of the mergers contemplated by the  Reorganization Agreement. Series C Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock has been included in book value, because the definition of adjusted shares used to calculate book value per adjusted share assumes that all shares of Series C Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock have been converted to shares of common stock. To calculate Global Atlantic book value and to make it more comparable with the corresponding metric presented by other publicly traded companies in Global Atlantic’s industry, Global Atlantic book value excludes (i) accumulated other comprehensive income and (ii) accumulated change in fair value of reinsurance balances and related assets, net of income tax. In the second quarter of 2021, the definition of book value was amended to include the implied amount of tax assets and liabilities attributable to KKR Holdings L.P. as if it was subject to corporate income taxes. This change is useful to management and investors in assessing book value because the definition now includes the anticipated impacts that the payment of tax liabilities by KKR would have on book value. Prior periods have not been adjusted for this change, although it is expected to have had the effect of reducing book value reported for prior periods. Starting in the third quarter of 2021, the definition of book value was amended to include the anticipated recognition of deferred tax liabilities relating to certain assets of KKR Group Partnership L.P. that is expected to occur upon the completion of the mergers contemplated by the Reorganization Agreement. This change is useful to management and investors in assessing book value because the definition now includes the anticipated impacts that the mergers contemplated by the Reorganization Agreement, which are expected to be completed in 2022, would have on book value. Distributable Operating Earnings Distributable operating earnings is a non-GAAP performance measure that KKR believes is useful to stockholders as it provides a supplemental measure of our operating performance without taking into account items that KKR does not believe arise from or relate directly to KKR's operations. Distributable Operating Earnings is presented prior to giving effect to the allocation of income (loss) among KKR & Co. Inc., KKR Holdings L.P. and other exchangeable securities, and the consolidation of the investment funds, vehicles and accounts that KKR advises, manages or sponsors (including collateralized financing entities). Distributable Operating Earnings excludes: (i) equity-based compensation charges, (ii) amortization of acquired intangibles, (iii) strategic corporate transaction-related charges and (iv) non-recurring items, if any. Strategic corporate transaction-related items arise from corporate actions and consist primarily of (i) impairments, (ii) non-monetary gains or losses on divestitures, (iii) transaction costs from strategic acquisitions, and (iv) depreciation on real estate that KKR owns and occupies. Inter-segment transactions are not eliminated from segment results when management considers those transactions in assessing the results of the respective segments. These transactions include (i) management fees earned by KKR as the investment adviser for Global Atlantic insurance companies and (ii) interest income and expense based on lending arrangements where one or more KKR subsidiaries borrow from a Global Atlantic insurance subsidiary. Inter-segment transactions are recorded by each segment based on the definitive documents that contain arms’ length terms and comply with applicable regulatory requirements. Distributable Operating Earnings represents operating earnings of KKR’s Asset Management and Insurance segments, which are comprised of the following: • Asset Management Segment Operating Earnings is the segment profitability measure used to make operating decisions and to assess the performance of the Asset Management segment and is comprised of: (i) Fee Related Earnings, (ii) Realized Performance Income, (iii) Realized Performance Income Compensation, (iv) Realized Investment Income, and (v) Realized Investment Income Compensation. Asset Management Segment Operating Earnings excludes (i) unrealized carried interest, (ii) net unrealized gains (losses) on investments, and (iii) related unrealized performance income compensation. Management fees earned by KKR as the adviser, manager or sponsor for its investment funds, 140 vehicles and accounts, including management fees paid to KKR by Global Atlantic's insurance companies and management fees paid to Global Atlantic by reinsurance investment vehicles, are included in Asset Management Segment Operating Earnings. • Insurance Segment Operating Earnings is the segment profitability measure used to make operating decisions and to assess the performance of the Insurance segment and is comprised of: (i) Net Investment Income, (ii) Net Cost of Insurance, (iii) General, Administrative, and Other Expenses, (iv) Income Taxes, and (v) Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests. The non-operating adjustments made to derive Insurance Segment Operating Earnings eliminate the impact of: (i) realized (gains) losses related to asset/liability matching investments strategies, (ii) unrealized investment (gains) losses, (iii) changes in the fair value of derivatives, embedded derivatives, and fair value liabilities for fixed-indexed annuities, indexed universal life contracts and variable annuities, and (iv) the associated income tax effects of all exclusions from Insurance Segment Operating Earnings except for equity-based compensation expense. Insurance Segment Operating Earnings includes (i) realized gains and losses not related to asset/liability matching investments strategies and (ii) the investment management fee expenses that are earned by KKR as the investment adviser of the Global Atlantic insurance companies. Fee Related Earnings ("FRE") Fee related earnings is a performance measure used to assess the Asset Management segment’s generation of profits from revenues that are measured and received on a recurring basis and are not dependent on future realization events. KKR believes this measure is useful to stockholders as it provides additional insight into the profitability of KKR’s fee generating asset management and capital markets businesses and other recurring revenue streams. FRE equals (i) Management Fees, including fees paid by the Insurance segment to the Asset Management segment and fees paid by certain insurance co-investment vehicles, (ii) Transaction and Monitoring Fees, Net and (iii) Fee Related Performance Revenues, less (x) Fee Related Compensation, and (y) Other Operating Expenses. • Fee Related Performance Revenues refers to the realized portion of Incentive Fees from certain AUM that has an indefinite term and for which there is no immediate requirement to return invested capital to investors upon the realization of investments. Fee-related performance revenues consists of performance fees (i) to be received from our investment funds, vehicles and accounts on a recurring basis, and (ii) that are not dependent on a realization event involving investments held by the investment fund, vehicle or account. • Fee Related Compensation refers to the compensation expense, excluding equity-based compensation, paid from (i) Management Fees, (ii) Transaction and Monitoring Fees, Net, and (iii) Fee Related Performance Revenues. • Other Operating Expenses represents the sum of (i) occupancy and related charges and (ii) other operating expenses. Other Terms and Capital Metrics Adjusted Shares Adjusted shares represents shares of common stock of KKR & Co. Inc. outstanding under GAAP adjusted to include shares issuable upon exchange of all units of KKR Holdings L.P. and other exchangeable securities and the number of shares of common stock assumed to be issuable upon conversion of the Series C Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock. Weighted average adjusted shares is used in the calculation of After-tax Distributable Earnings per Adjusted Share, and Adjusted Shares is used in the calculation of Book Value per Adjusted Share. Assets Under Management ("AUM") Assets under management represent the assets managed, advised or sponsored by KKR from which KKR is entitled to receive management fees or performance income (currently or upon a future event), general partner capital, and assets managed, advised or sponsored by our strategic BDC partnership and the hedge fund and other managers in which KKR holds an ownership interest. We believe this measure is useful to stockholders as it provides additional insight into the capital raising activities of KKR and its hedge fund and other managers and the overall activity in their investment funds and other managed or sponsored capital. KKR calculates the amount of AUM as of any date as the sum of: (i) the fair value of the investments of KKR's investment funds and the Global Atlantic insurance companies; (ii) uncalled capital commitments from these funds, including uncalled capital commitments from which KKR is currently not earning management fees or performance income; (iii) the fair value of investments in KKR's co-investment vehicles; (iv) the par value of outstanding CLOs; (v) KKR's pro rata 141 portion of the AUM of hedge fund and other managers in which KKR holds an ownership interest; (vi) all AUM of KKR's strategic BDC partnership; and (vii) the fair value of other assets managed or sponsored by KKR. The pro rata portion of the AUM of hedge fund and other managers is calculated based on KKR’s percentage ownership interest in such entities multiplied by such entity’s respective AUM. KKR's definition of AUM (i) is not based on any definition of AUM that may be set forth in the governing documents of the investment funds, vehicles, accounts or other entities whose capital is included in this definition, (ii) includes assets for which KKR does not act as an investment adviser, and (iii) is not calculated pursuant to any regulatory definitions. Capital Invested Capital invested is the aggregate amount of capital invested by (i) KKR’s investment funds and Global Atlantic's insurance companies, (ii) KKR's Principal Activities business line as a co-investment, if any, alongside KKR’s investment funds, and (iii) KKR's Principal Activities business line in connection with a syndication transaction conducted by KKR's Capital Markets business line, if any. Capital invested is used as a measure of investment activity at KKR during a given period. We believe this measure is useful to stockholders as it provides a measure of capital deployment across KKR’s business lines. Capital invested includes investments made using investment financing arrangements like credit facilities, as applicable. Capital invested excludes (i) investments in certain leveraged credit strategies, (ii) capital invested by KKR’s Principal Activities business line that is not a co-investment alongside KKR’s investment funds, and (iii) capital invested by KKR’s Principal Activities business line that is not invested in connection with a syndication transaction by KKR’s Capital Markets business line. Capital syndicated by KKR's Capital Markets business line to third parties other than KKR’s investment funds or Principal Activities business line is not included in capital invested. Fee Paying AUM ("FPAUM") Fee paying AUM represents only the AUM from which KKR is entitled to receive management fees. We believe this measure is useful to stockholders as it provides additional insight into the capital base upon which KKR earns management fees. FPAUM is the sum of all of the individual fee bases that are used to calculate KKR's and its hedge fund and BDC partnership management fees and differs from AUM in the following respects: (i) assets and commitments from which KKR is not entitled to receive a management fee are excluded (e.g., assets and commitments with respect to which it is entitled to receive only performance income or is otherwise not currently entitled to receive a management fee) and (ii) certain assets, primarily in its private equity funds, are reflected based on capital commitments and invested capital as opposed to fair value because fees are not impacted by changes in the fair value of underlying investments. Uncalled Commitments Uncalled commitments is the aggregate amount of unfunded capital commitments that KKR’s investment funds and carry-paying co-investment vehicles have received from partners to contribute capital to fund future investments. We believe this measure is useful to stockholders as it provides additional insight into the amount of capital that is available to KKR’s investment funds and carry paying co-investment vehicles to make future investments. Uncalled commitments are not reduced for investments completed using fund-level investment financing arrangements or investments we have committed to make but remain unfunded at the reporting date. 142 Consolidated Results of Operations (GAAP Basis) The following is a discussion of our consolidated results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020. You should read this discussion in conjunction with the financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this report.  See " Business Environment" for more information about factors that may affect our business, financial performance, operating results and valuations. 143 144 Consolidated Results of Operations (GAAP Basis) - Asset Management Revenues For the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, revenues consisted of the following: Fees and Other Total Fees and Other for the year ended December 31, 2021 increased compared to the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily as a result of the increase in transaction fees and management fees. For a more detailed discussion of the factors that affected our transaction fees during the period, see "—Analysis of Asset Management Segment Operating Earnings." The increase in management fees was primarily attributable to management fees earned from (i) North America Fund XIII, Global Infrastructure Investors IV, and Health Care Strategic Growth Fund II, all of which entered their investment periods in 2021 and (ii) Asian Fund IV, which entered its investment period in the third quarter of 2020. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in management fees earned from Asian Fund III, Americas Fund XII, and Global Infrastructure Investors III as a result of entering their post-investment periods in the third quarter of 2020, second quarter of 2021 and second quarter of 2021, respectively, with all three investment funds now earning fees based on capital invested rather than capital committed and at a lower fee rate for Asian Fund III and Americas Fund XII. Management fees due from consolidated investment funds and other vehicles are eliminated upon consolidation under GAAP. However, because these amounts are funded by, and earned from, noncontrolling interests, KKR's allocated share of the net income from the consolidated investment funds and other vehicles is increased by the amount of fees that are eliminated. Accordingly, the elimination of these fees does not impact the net income (loss) attributable to KKR or KKR stockholders' equity. For a more detailed discussion on the factors that affect our management fees during the period, see "—Analysis of Asset Management Segment Operating Earnings." Fee credits increased compared to the prior period as a result of a higher level of transaction fees in our Private Markets and Public Markets business lines. Fee credits owed to consolidated investment funds are eliminated upon consolidation under GAAP. However, because these amounts are owed to noncontrolling interests, KKR's allocated share of the net income from the consolidated investment funds is decreased by the amount of fee credits that are eliminated. Accordingly, the elimination of these fee credits does not impact the net income (loss) attributable to KKR or KKR stockholders' equity. Transaction and monitoring fees earned from KKR portfolio companies are not eliminated upon consolidation because those fees are earned 145 from companies which are not consolidated. Furthermore, transaction fees earned in our Capital Markets business line are not shared with fund investors. Accordingly, certain transaction fees are reflected in revenues without a corresponding fee credit. Capital Allocation-Based Income (Loss) The increase in carried interest and general partner capital interest during the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the prior period was due primarily to a higher level of net appreciation in the value of our investment portfolio as compared to the year ended December 31, 2020. Capital Allocation-Based Income (Loss) for the year ended December 31, 2021 was positive primarily due to the net appreciation of the underlying investments at our carry earning investment funds, most notably Americas Fund XII, Asian Fund III and North America Fund XI. Capital Allocation-Based Income (Loss) for the year ended December 31, 2020 was positive due to the net appreciation of the underlying investments at our carry earning investment funds, most notably Americas Fund XII, Asian Fund III and North America Fund XI. KKR generally calculates the carried interest that would be due to KKR for each investment fund, pursuant to the fund agreements, as if the fair value of the underlying investments were realized as of the reporting date, irrespective of whether such amounts have been realized. Since the fair value of the underlying investments varies between reporting periods, it is necessary to make adjustments to the amounts recorded as carried interest to reflect either (a) positive performance resulting in an increase in the carried interest allocated to the general partner or (b) negative performance that would cause the amount due to KKR to be less than the amount previously recognized, resulting in a negative adjustment to carried interest allocated to the general partner. In each case, it is necessary to calculate the carried interest on cumulative results compared to the carried interest recorded to date and to make the required positive or negative adjustments. Investment Income (Loss) - Asset Management Net Gains (Losses) from Investment Activities for the year ended December 31, 2021 The net gains from investment activities for the year ended December 31, 2021 were comprised of net realized gains of $2,382.2 million and net unrealized gains of $5,338.7 million. Investment gains and losses relating to our general partner capital interest in our unconsolidated funds are not reflected in our discussion and analysis of Net Gains (Losses) from Investment Activities.  Our economics associated with these gains and losses are reflected in Capital Allocation-Based Income (Loss) as described above. For a discussion and analysis of the  investment gains or losses relating to the investments in our unconsolidated funds, see "—Analysis of Asset Management Segment Operating Results." Realized Gains and Losses from Investment Activities For the year ended December 31, 2021, net realized gains related primarily to the sales of our investments held by KKR and certain consolidated funds, the most significant of which were in FanDuel Inc. (technology sector), Mr. Cooper Group Inc. (NASDAQ: COOP), and Darktrace Limited (LSE: DARK). Partially offsetting these realized gains were realized losses, the most significant of which were realized losses from certain investments held in our consolidated credit funds and realized losses on certain hedging instruments. Unrealized Gains and Losses from Investment Activities For the year ended December 31, 2021, net unrealized gains related primarily to mark-to-market gains from our investments held by KKR and certain consolidated funds, the most significant of which were PetVet Care Centers, LLC (health care sector), Heartland Dental LLC (health care sector) and OutSystems Holdings S.A. (technology sector). Partially offsetting these unrealized gains were unrealized losses, the most significant of which are (i) the reversal of previously recognized unrealized gains relating to the realization activity described above and (ii) an unrealized loss on BridgeBio Pharma, Inc. (NASDAQ: BBIO). For a discussion of other factors that affected KKR's realized investment income, see "—Analysis of Asset Management Segment Operating Results" and Note 4 "Net Gains (Losses) from Investment Activities - Asset Management" in our financial statements. 146 Net Gains (Losses) from Investment Activities for the year ended December 31, 2020 The net losses from investment activities for the year ended December 31, 2020 were comprised of net realized gains of $162.9 million and net unrealized gains of $3,479.9 million. Realized Gains and Losses from Investment Activities For the year ended December 31, 2020, net realized gains related primarily to (i) the sale of our investment in The Hut Group Limited (LSE: THG), (ii) partial sales of our investment in Fiserv, Inc. (NASDAQ: FISV), and (iii) the sale of our investment in Ivalua SAS (technology sector). Partially offsetting these realized gains were realized losses primarily relating to (i) an $88.3 million impairment charge taken on one of our investments that is accounted for under the equity method of accounting, (ii) a realized loss on the partial sale of our investment in LCI Helicopters Limited (financial services sector) and (iii) realization of losses on certain investments held through consolidated CLOs and alternative credit funds. Unrealized Gains and Losses from Investment Activities For the year ended December 31, 2020, net unrealized gains were driven primarily by (i) mark-to-market gains in our growth equity and core investments held by KKR and certain consolidated entities, the most significant of which were BridgeBio Pharma, Inc., FanDuel Inc., and PetVet Care Centers, LLC. Partially offsetting these unrealized gains were unrealized losses relating to (i) the reversal of previously recognized unrealized gains relating to the realization activity described above, (ii) mark-to-market losses on our investment in Fiserv, Inc., which is held both in our funds and as a co-investment by KKR, and (iii) mark-to-market losses on certain investments held through consolidated alternative credit and real estate funds. For a discussion of other factors that affected KKR's realized investment income, see "—Analysis of Asset Management Segment Operating Results" in our report and Note 4 "Net Gains (Losses) from Investment Activities - Asset Management" in our financial statements. Dividend Income During the year ended December 31, 2021, the most significant dividends received included (i) $215.5 million from our consolidated real estate funds, (ii) $138.7 million from our investment in Viridor Limited (infrastructure), and (iii) $70.9 million from our investment in Arnott's Biscuits Limited (consumer products sector). During the year ended December 31, 2020, the most significant dividends received included $152.4 million from our consolidated real estate funds, $62.5 million from our investment in Fiserv, Inc. part of which is held as a co-investment by KKR, and $48.9 million from our investment in Epicor Software Corporation (technology sector). Significant dividends from portfolio companies and consolidated funds are generally not recurring quarterly dividends, and while they may occur in the future, their size and frequency are variable. For a discussion of other factors that affected KKR's dividend income, see "—Analysis of Asset Management Segment Operating Results." Interest Income The increase in interest income during the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the year ended December 31, 2020 was primarily due to (i) a higher level of interest income from certain of our consolidated credit funds, primarily related to an increase in the amount of capital deployed, and (ii) the impact of closing additional CLOs that are consolidated subsequent to December 31, 2020. Partially offsetting these increases was a lower level of reported interest income from investments at KREF as a result of the deconsolidation of KREF in the fourth quarter of 2021. For a discussion of other factors that affected KKR's interest income, see "—Analysis of Asset Management Segment Operating Results." Interest Expense The increase in interest expense during the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the year ended December 31, 2020 was primarily due to (i) the impact of issuances of our senior notes, (ii) an increase in the amount of borrowings outstanding from the financing arrangements of consolidated investment funds and other vehicles, and (iii) impact of closing additional CLOs that are consolidated subsequent to December 31, 2020. Partially offsetting these increases was a lower level of reported interest expense on debt obligations at KREF as a result of the deconsolidation of KREF in the fourth quarter of 2021. For a discussion of other factors that affected KKR's interest expense, see "—Analysis of Non-GAAP Performance Measures." 147 Expenses - Asset Management Compensation and Benefits Expenses The increase in compensation and benefits expenses during the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the prior period was primarily due to (i) a higher level of accrued carried interest compensation resulting from a higher level of carried interest from the appreciation in the value of our investment portfolio in the current period, (ii) a higher level of accrued discretionary compensation and benefits resulting from a higher level of fee revenue, realized performance income and realized investment income in the current period, and (iii) a higher level of equity-based compensation. The number of equity-based compensation awards granted in 2021 is higher than in 2020, which combined with a higher stock price than the prior period will result in a higher equity-based compensation expense in the coming years.  Based on equity awards made through December 31, 2021, and assuming no additional grants and no forfeitures, equity-based compensation for the year ended December 31, 2022 would be comprised of $211.9 million of expense associated with time-based vesting awards and $237.5 million of expense associated with performance-based vesting awards.  Additional grants made in 2022 or forfeitures of existing grants during 2022 would increase and decrease these numbers, respectively. General, Administrative and Other The increase in general, administrative and other expenses during the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the prior period was primarily due to (i) a higher level of expenses at our consolidated CLOs, investment funds and other vehicles, (ii) a higher level of broken-deal expenses, (iii) a higher level of expenses reimbursable by our investment funds, and (iv) placement fees incurred related to capital raising activities. The level of broken-deal expenses can vary significantly period to period based upon a number of factors, the most significant of which are the number of potential investments being pursued for our investment funds, the size and complexity of investments being pursued and the number of investment funds currently in their investment period. Also, in periods of significant fundraising and to the extent that we use third parties to assist in our capital raising efforts, our General, Administrative and Other may increase accordingly. Similarly, our General, Administrative and Other may increase as a result of professional and other fees incurred as part of due diligence related to strategic acquisitions and new product development. 148 Consolidated Results of Operations (GAAP Basis) - Insurance For the year-ended December 31, 2021, the results of Global Atlantic's insurance operations included in our consolidated results of operations are from the acquisition date, February 1, 2021, through December 31, 2021. Assumption review The assumptions on which reserves, deferred revenue and expenses are based are intended to represent an estimation of the benefits that are expected to be payable to, and fees or premiums that are expected to be collectible from, policyholders in future periods. Global Atlantic reviews the adequacy of its reserves, deferred revenue and expenses and the assumptions underlying those items at least annually, usually in the third quarter. As Global Atlantic analyzes its assumptions, to the extent Global Atlantic chooses to update one or more of those assumptions, there may be an “unlocking” impact. Generally, favorable unlocking means the change in assumptions required a reduction in reserves, or in deferred revenue liabilities or an increase in deferred expenses, and unfavorable unlocking means the change in assumptions required an increase in reserves or in deferred revenue liabilities, or a reduction in deferred expenses. The following table reflects the impact on net income by financial statement line item and to insurance segment adjusted operating earnings from Global Atlantic’s assumption review: For the year ended December 31, 2021, the net favorable unlocking impact on net income and insurance segment adjusted operating earnings was primarily due to favorable mortality experience. Revenues For the year ended December 31, 2021, revenues consisted of the following: Net Premiums Net premiums were primarily driven by initial premiums related to new reinsurance transactions with life contingencies assumed during the year ended December 31, 2021. These initial premiums are wholly offset by a comparable increase in policy reserves reported within policy benefits and claims (as discussed below). 149 Policy fees Policy fees were primarily driven by cost of insurance, administrative, and rider fees during the year ended December 31, 2021. Net investment income Net investment income was primarily driven by insurance segment investments and the effective book yield (as determined, in part, by the allocated fair value of the investment portfolio as determined as of the GA Acquisition Date). Average insurance segment investments were primarily driven by net inflows of assets from the individual markets and institutional channels. In addition to the impact of higher asset balances, net investment income was also positively impacted by income from bond call and loan prepayment activity. Net investment-related gains The components of net investment-related gains were as follows: Net gains on derivative instruments The increase in the fair value of equity index options were primarily driven by the performance of the indexes upon which call options are based. Global Atlantic purchases equity index options to hedge the market risk of embedded derivatives in indexed universal life and fixed-indexed annuity products (the change for which is accounted for in policy benefits and claims). The majority of Global Atlantic's equity index call options are based on the S&P 500 index, which increased during the year ended December 31, 2021. The decrease in the fair value of equity futures and interest rate contracts were driven primarily by the performance of equity markets and interest rates. Global Atlantic purchases equity futures primarily to hedge the market risk in our variable annuity products which are accounted for in policy benefits and claims. The majority of Global Atlantic's equity futures are based on the S&P 500 Index, which increased during the year ended December 31, 2021, resulting in a loss on equity futures contracts. Market interest rates increased during the year ended December 31, 2021, resulting in a loss on interest rate contracts. The increase in the fair value of embedded derivatives on funds withheld at interest payable and receivable were primarily driven by the change in fair value of the underlying investments in the respective funds withheld payable and receivable portfolios. 150 Net other investment losses The components of net other investment losses were as follows: Net other investment losses for the year ended December 31, 2021 were primarily due to (i) the recognition of a credit loan loss allowances as a result of the application of the current expected credit loss accounting standard adopted concurrent with the GA Acquisition, (ii) losses on the sale of available-for-sale ("AFS") securities as a result of portfolio rotation strategies, and (iii) net unrealized losses on trading fixed maturity securities underlying a portion of the funds withheld payable at interest portfolio due to an increase in market interest rates. These losses were almost wholly offset by realized gains (losses) on investments not supporting asset-liability matching strategies, including in particular a gain from the disposition of Origis USA, LLC, a utility-scale renewable energy developer. Other income Other income is mainly driven by expense allowances on ceded reinsurance, administration, management fees and distribution fees. Expenses Policy benefits and claims Policy benefits and claims were primarily driven by (i) initial reserves related to new reinsurance transactions with life contingencies during the year ended December 31, 2021, (ii) an increase in the value of embedded derivatives in Global Atlantic's indexed universal life and fixed indexed annuity products, as a result of higher equity market returns (as discussed above under "Revenues—Total Insurance Revenues—Net gains on derivative instruments," Global Atlantic purchases equity index options in order to hedge this risk, the fair value changes of which are accounted for in gains on derivative instruments, and generally offsetting the change in embedded derivative fair value reported in policy benefits and claims), and (iii) an increase in net flows in the institutional and individual channels, all offset by a decrease in variable annuity reserves primarily due to higher equity market returns and market interest rates. Amortization of policy acquisition costs Amortization of policy acquisition costs during the year ended December 31, 2021 was primarily driven by the amortization of insurance intangibles recognized as part of purchase accounting of the Global Atlantic acquisition. Amortization is negative (that is, a reduction to expense) as a result of the net negative value-of-business-acquired insurance intangible recognized as part of the aforementioned purchase accounting. Interest expense Interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2021 reflects a net increase in debt outstanding due to the issuance of new senior and subordinated notes partially offset by the pay-down of other debt, offset in part by the favorable impact to interest expense as a result of the lower average coupon due on new debt added at lower interest rates. Insurance expenses Insurance expenses were primarily driven by (i) commission expense related to sales, and (ii) reinsurance ceding expense allowances paid for policy administration services during the year ended December 31, 2021. 151 General, administrative and other General, administrative and other expenses were driven primarily by (i) employee compensation and benefits related expenses, (ii) third-party administrator ("TPA") policy servicing fees, (iii) technology hardware and software related charges, and (iv) professional fees during the year ended December 31, 2021. Other Consolidated Results of Operations (GAAP Basis) Income Tax Expense (Benefit) For the year ended December 31, 2021, income tax expense was $1,353.3 million compared to $609.1 million in the prior period. The increase in the income tax expense was primarily due to (i) a higher level of fees, capital allocation-based income and investment income as described above earned from asset management operations and (ii) the inclusion of income taxes relating to Global Atlantic's insurance operations. Our effective tax rate under GAAP for the year ended December 31, 2021 was 9.9%. For a discussion of factors that impacted KKR's tax provision, see Note 18 "Income Taxes" in our financial statements. The amount of U.S. corporate income taxes we pay in future periods may be materially increased if adverse tax laws become enacted.  See also “—Business Environment—Economic and Market Conditions” in this report. Net Income (Loss) Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests Net Income (Loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests for the year ended December 31, 2021 relates primarily to net income (loss) attributable to (i) interests of KKR Holdings and other exchangeable securities representing ownership interests in KKR Group Partnership, (ii) third-party limited partner interests in consolidated investment funds and (iii) interests that co-investors and rollover investors hold in Global Atlantic. Net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests for the year ended December 31, 2021 increased compared to the prior period primarily due to a higher level of net income generated during the year ended December 31, 2021, allocable to the holders of the noncontrolling interests. Net Income (Loss) Attributable to KKR & Co. Inc. Net Income (loss) attributable to KKR & Co. Inc. for the year ended December 31, 2021 increased compared to the prior period primarily due to (i) a higher level of net gains from investment activities, capital allocation-based income, and fees earned from the asset management operations during the year ended December 31, 2021 as described above and (ii) the acquisition of Global Atlantic, which was completed in February 2021. These increases were partially offset by accrued carried interest compensation and income tax expense, each as described above. 152 Consolidated Results of Operations (GAAP Basis) The following is a discussion of our consolidated results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019. You should read this discussion in conjunction with the financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this report.  See also "—Business Environment" for more information about factors that may affect our business, financial performance, operating results and valuations. 153 154 Consolidated Results of Operations (GAAP Basis) - Asset Management Revenues For the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, revenues consisted of the following: Fees and Other Total Fees and Other for the year ended December 31, 2020 increased compared to the year ended December 31, 2019 primarily as a result of (i) an increase in management fees, (ii) a reduction in fee credits and (iii) an increase in transaction fees. The increase in management fees was primarily due to management fees earned from Asian Fund IV, Next Generation Technology Growth Fund II, and Asia Pacific Infrastructure Investors which entered their investment periods subsequent to December 31, 2019. These increases were partially offset by (i) a decrease in management fees earned from Asian Fund III as it entered its post investment period in the third quarter of 2020, in which it pays fees based on capital invested rather than capital committed and pays fees at a lower rate and (ii) a decrease in management fees earned from European Fund IV as it entered its post investment period in the second quarter of 2019, in which it pays fees based on capital invested rather than remaining commitments and capital invested during the investment period. Transaction fees increased overall primarily from a higher level of transaction fees earned in our Capital Markets business line. Partially offsetting this increase was a decrease in transaction fees earned in our Private Markets business line, and to a lesser extent, our Public Markets business line. For a more detailed discussion of the factors that affected our transaction fees during the period, see "—Analysis of Asset Management Segment Operating Earnings." Fee credits decreased compared to the prior period as a result of a lower level of transaction fees in our Private Markets and Public Markets business lines. Fee credits owed to consolidated investment funds are eliminated upon consolidation under GAAP. Transaction fees earned from KKR portfolio companies are not eliminated upon consolidation because those fees are earned from companies which are not consolidated. Furthermore, transaction fees earned in our Capital Markets business line are not shared with fund investors. Accordingly, certain transaction fees are reflected in revenues without a corresponding fee credit. 155 Capital Allocation-Based Income (Loss) Capital Allocation-Based Income (Loss) for the year ended December 31, 2020 decreased compared to the year ended December 31, 2019 primarily due to lower carried interest allocations from 2006 Fund and Asia Fund II. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in carried interest allocations from Americas Fund XII and Global Infrastructure Investors II. KKR generally calculates the carried interest that would be due to KKR for each investment fund, pursuant to the fund agreements, as if the fair value of the underlying investments were realized as of the reporting date, irrespective of whether such amounts have been realized. As the fair value of underlying investments varies between reporting periods, it is necessary to make adjustments to amounts recorded as carried interest to reflect either (a) positive performance resulting in an increase in the carried interest allocated to the general partner or (b) negative performance that would cause the amount due to KKR to be less than the amount previously recognized, resulting in a negative adjustment to carried interest allocated to the general partner. In each case, it is necessary to calculate the carried interest on cumulative results compared to the carried interest recorded to date and to make the required positive or negative adjustments. Investment Income (Loss) - Asset Management Net Gains (Losses) from Investment Activities for the year ended December 31, 2020 The net gains from investment activities for the year ended December 31, 2020 were comprised of net realized gains of $162.9 million and net unrealized gains of $3,479.9 million. Investment gains and losses relating to our general partner capital interest in our unconsolidated funds are not reflected in our discussion and analysis of Net Gains (Losses) from Investment Activities. Our economics associated with these gains and losses are reflected in Capital Allocation-Based Income (Loss) as described above. For a discussion and analysis of the primary investment gains or losses relating to individual investments in our unconsolidated funds, see "— Analysis of Non-GAAP Performance Measures." Realized Gains and Losses from Investment Activities For the year ended December 31, 2020, net realized gains related primarily to (i) the sale of our investment in The Hut Group Limited, (ii) partial sales of our investment in Fiserv, Inc., and (iii) the sale of our investment in Ivalua SAS. Partially offsetting these realized gains were realized losses primarily relating to (i) an $88.3 million impairment charge taken on one of our investments that is accounted for under the equity method of accounting, (ii) a realized loss on the partial sale of our investment in LCI Helicopters Limited and (iii) realization of losses on certain investments held through consolidated CLOs and alternative credit funds. Unrealized Gains and Losses from Investment Activities For the year ended December 31, 2020, net unrealized gains were driven primarily by (i) mark-to-market gains in our growth equity and core investments held by KKR and certain consolidated entities, the most significant of which were BridgeBio Pharma, Inc., FanDuel Inc., and PetVet Care Centers, LLC. Partially offsetting these unrealized gains were unrealized losses relating to (i) the reversal of previously recognized unrealized gains relating to the realization activity described above (ii) mark-to-market losses on our investment in Fiserv, Inc., which is held both in our funds and as a co-investment by KKR, and (iii) mark-to-market losses on certain investments held through consolidated alternative credit and real estate funds. For a discussion of other factors that affected KKR's realized investment income, see "—Analysis of Asset Management Segment Operating Results" and Note 4 "Net Gains (Losses) from Investment Activities - Asset Management" in our financial statements. Net Gains (Losses) from Investment Activities for the year ended December 31, 2019 The net gains from investment activities for the year ended December 31, 2019 were comprised of net realized gains of $497.3 million and net unrealized gains of $2,664.5 million. 156 Realized Gains and Losses from Investment Activities For the year ended December 31, 2019, net realized gains related primarily to realized gains on (i) the sale of our investment in Trainline PLC (LSE: TRN), (ii) the sales of assets in our consolidated real estate funds, (iii) the sale of our investment in Sedgwick Claims Management Services, Inc. (financial services sector) and (iv) the sales of assets in our consolidated special situations funds. Partially offsetting these realized gains were realized losses, the most significant of which related to the sale of investments held by our consolidated CLOs and the sale of our investment in DoubleDutch, Inc. (technology sector). Unrealized Gains and Losses from Investment Activities For the year ended December 31, 2019, net unrealized gains were driven primarily by (i) mark-to-market gains on the growth equity investments held by KKR and certain consolidated entities, the most significant of which was BridgeBio Pharma, Inc., (ii) mark-to-market gains in portfolio companies in our core investment strategy, the most significant of which were PetVet Care Centers, LLC, Heartland Dental, LLC, and USI, Inc. (financial services sector) and (iii) mark-to-market gains on our investment in Fiserv, Inc., which is held both in our funds and as a balance sheet co-investment by KKR. Partially offsetting the unrealized gains above were unrealized losses relating to (i) mark-to-market losses in our energy investments held through certain consolidated entities, (ii) mark-to-market losses on investments held at our consolidated special situations funds, (iii) mark-to-market losses on investments held at our India debt financing company and (iv) the reversal of previously recognized unrealized gains relating to the realization activity described above. For a discussion of other factors that affected KKR's realized investment income, see "—Analysis of Asset Management Segment Operating Results" and Note 4 "Net Gains (Losses) from Investment Activities - Asset Management" in our financial statements. Dividend Income During the year ended December 31, 2020, the most significant dividends received included $152.4 million from our consolidated real estate funds, $62.5 million from our investment in Fiserv, Inc. part of which is held as a co-investment by KKR and $48.9 million from our investment in Epicor Software Corporation. During the year ended December 31, 2019, the most significant dividends received included $195.3 million from our investment in Fiserv, Inc., $36.0 million from our consolidated real estate funds, $29.1 million from our consolidated special situations funds, $14.1 million from infrastructure investments held by KKR and $12.7 million from our consolidated energy funds. Significant dividends from portfolio companies and consolidated funds are generally not recurring quarterly dividends, and while they may occur in the future, their size and frequency are variable. For a discussion of other factors that affected KKR's dividend income, see "—Analysis of Asset Management Segment Operating Results." Interest Income The decrease in interest income during the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the year ended December 31, 2019 was primarily due to a lower level of interest earned from (i) investments held at our consolidated special situations funds and (ii) loans held by KREF, a listed REIT. These decreases were partially offset by (i) the impact of closing additional consolidated CLOs subsequent to December 31, 2019 and (ii) an increase in interest income from certain of our consolidated direct lending funds, primarily related to an increase in the amount of capital deployed. For a discussion of other factors that affected KKR's interest income, see "—Analysis of Non-GAAP Performance Measures." Interest Expense The decrease in interest expense during the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the year ended December 31, 2019 was primarily due to a lower level of interest expense on debt obligations of the consolidated CLOs and KREF due to a decrease in interest rates subsequent to December 31, 2019 and (ii) the redemption of our $500 million aggregate principal amount of 6.375% Senior Notes due 2020 in the third quarter of 2019. These decreases were partially offset by the impact of multiple issuances of senior notes subsequent to December 31, 2019, which included: (i) $500 million aggregate principal amount of 3.625% Senior Notes due 2050, (ii) $250 million aggregate principal amount of $3.750% Senior Notes due 2029 and (iii) $750 million aggregate principal amount of 3.500% Senior Notes due 2050. For a discussion of other factors that affected KKR's interest expense, see "—Analysis of Non-GAAP Performance Measures." 157 Expenses - Asset Management Compensation and Benefits Expenses The increase in compensation and benefits expenses during the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the prior period was primarily due to (i) a higher level of cash compensation resulting from a higher level of fees earned and (ii) a higher level of equity-based compensation resulting from certain equity awards that were granted in the fourth quarter of 2020, of which a portion vested immediately. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in carried interest compensation resulting from a lower level of carried interest generated in the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the prior period. General, Administrative and Other The decrease in general, administrative and other expenses during the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the prior period was primarily due to (i) a decrease in capital raising costs and (ii) a decrease in corporate travel-related expenses as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. Partially offsetting these decreases were corporate transaction-related charges incurred in connection with the acquisition of Global Atlantic. Other Unaudited Consolidated Results of Operations (GAAP Basis) Income Tax Expense (Benefit) For the year ended December 31, 2020, income tax expense was $609.1 million compared to $528.8 million for the prior period. Our effective tax rate under GAAP for the year ended December 31, 2020 was 10.6%. For a discussion of factors that impacted KKR's tax provision, see Note 18 "Income Taxes" in our financial statements.  See also “—Business Environment” in this report. Net Income (Loss) Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests Net Income (Loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests for the year ended December 31, 2020 related primarily to net income attributable to KKR Holdings representing its ownership interests in KKR Group Partnership as well as third-party limited partner interests in those investment funds that we consolidate. The increase from the prior period is due primarily to an increase in the number of consolidated funds, partially offset by a decrease in net income attributable to KKR Holdings. Net Income (Loss) Attributable to KKR & Co. Inc. For the year ended December 31, 2020, Net Income (Loss) attributable to KKR & Co. Inc. was $25.7 million lower compared to the year ended December 31, 2019 primarily due to (i) a lower level of accrued carried interest and (ii) Series C Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock dividends in each case in 2020. These decreases were partially offset by (i) lower accrued carried interest compensation, (ii) lower level of General, Administrative and Other expenses and (iii) an increase in management fees, in each case in 2020 and as described above. 158 Condensed Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition (GAAP Basis) The following table provides the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition on a GAAP basis as of December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020. KKR & Co. Inc. Stockholders’ Equity - Common Stock per Outstanding Share of Common Stock was $27.64 as of December 31, 2021, up from $21.15 as of December 31, 2020. The increase was primarily due to the net income attributable to KKR & Co. Inc. common stockholders during the year ended 2021, partially offset by (i) dividends to common stockholders and (ii) repurchases of common stock. 159 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (GAAP Basis) The following is a discussion of our consolidated cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020. You should read this discussion in conjunction with the financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this report. The consolidated statements of cash flows include the cash flows of our consolidated entities, which include certain consolidated investment funds, CLOs and certain variable interest entities formed by Global Atlantic notwithstanding the fact that we may hold only a minority economic interest in those investment funds and CFEs. The assets of our consolidated investment funds and CFEs, on a gross basis, can be substantially larger than the assets of our business and, accordingly, could have a substantial effect on the cash flows reflected in our consolidated statements of cash flows. The primary cash flow activities of our consolidated funds and CFEs involve: (i) capital contributions from fund investors; (ii) using the capital of fund investors to make investments; (iii) financing certain investments with indebtedness; (iv) generating cash flows through the realization of investments; and (v) distributing cash flows from the realization of investments to fund investors. Because our consolidated funds are treated as investment companies for accounting purposes, certain of these cash flow amounts are included in our cash flows from operations. Net Cash Provided (Used) by Operating Activities Our net cash provided (used) by operating activities was $(7.2) billion and $(6.0) billion during the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. These amounts primarily included: (i) investments purchased (asset management), net of proceeds from investments (asset management) of $(10.6) billion and $(5.9) billion during the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, (ii) net realized gains (losses) on asset management investments of $2,382.2 million and $162.9 million during the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, (iii) change in unrealized gains (losses) on asset management investments of $5.3 billion and $3.5 billion during the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, (iv) capital allocation-based income (loss) of $6.8 billion and $2.2 billion during the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively and (v) net realized gains (losses) on insurance operations of $(860.2) million during the year ended December 31, 2021. Investment funds are investment companies under GAAP and reflect their investments and other financial instruments at fair value. Net Cash Provided (Used) by Investing Activities Our net cash provided (used) by investing activities was $(9.6) billion and $(0.2) billion during the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Our investing activities included: (i) investments purchased (insurance), net of proceeds from investments (insurance) of $(9.1) billion during the year ended December 31, 2021, (ii) acquisitions, net of cash acquired of $(473.8) million during the year ended December 31, 2021, (iii) the purchase of fixed assets of $(102.0) million and $(142.3) million during the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively and (iv) development of oil and natural gas properties of $(11.1) million for the year ended December 31, 2020. Net Cash Provided (Used) by Financing Activities Our net cash provided (used) by financing activities was $20.4 billion and $9.8 billion during the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Our financing activities primarily included: (i) contributions by, net of distributions to, our noncontrolling and redeemable noncontrolling interests of $6.4 billion and $4.1 billion during the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, (ii) proceeds received net of repayment of debt obligations of $8.9 billion and $5.3 billion during the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, (iii) additions to, net of withdrawals from contractholder deposit funds of $5.9 billion during the year ended December 31, 2021, (iv) common stock dividends of $(331.4) million and $(297.3) million during the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively; (v) net delivery of common stock of $(166.8) million and $(78.3) million during the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively; (vi) repurchases of common stock of $(269.7) million and $(246.2) million during the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively; (vii) Series A and B Preferred Stock dividends of $(19.2) million and $(33.4) million during the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively; (viii) Series C Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock dividends of $(69.0) million and $(23.2) million during the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020; (ix) private placement share issuance of $38.5 million during the year ended December 31, 2021 and (x) redemption of Series A and B Preferred Stock of $(500.0) million during the year ended December 31, 2021. 160 Analysis of Segment Operating Results The following is a discussion of the results of our business on a segment basis for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020, and 2019. You should read this discussion in conjunction with the information included under "—Key Segment and Non-GAAP Performance Measures and Other Terms and Operating Metric" and the financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this report. See "—Business Environment" for more information about factors that may impact our business, financial performance, operating results and valuations. In connection with our acquisition of Global Atlantic on February 1, 2021, management reevaluated the manner in which we manage and assess the performance of our business and allocate resources. As a result, we introduced a new Insurance segment in 2021 and report segment results for two operating and reportable segments: Asset Management and Insurance. See Note 21 “Segment Reporting” in our financial statements. Analysis of Asset Management Segment Operating Results The following tables set forth information regarding KKR's Asset Management segment operating results and certain key capital metrics as of and for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020. Management Fees The following table presents management fees by business line for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020: The increase in Private Markets management fees was primarily attributable to management fees earned from (i) North America Fund XIII, Global Infrastructure Investors IV, and Health Care Strategic Growth Fund II, all of which entered their investment periods in 2021 and (ii) Asian Fund IV, which entered its investment period in the third quarter of 2020. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in management fees earned from Asian Fund III, Americas Fund XII and Global Infrastructure Investors III as a result of entering their post-investment periods in the third quarter of 2020, second quarter of 2021, and second quarter of 2021, respectively, with all three investment funds now earning fees based on capital invested rather than capital committed and at a lower fee rate for Asian Fund III and Americas Fund XII. 161 The increase in Public Markets management fees was primarily attributable to (i) management fees earned from Global Atlantic during the period February 1, 2021 through December 31, 2021, (ii) the issuance of new CLOs subsequent to December 31, 2020, (iii) higher overall FPAUM at our hedge fund partnerships from investment appreciation and, to a lesser extent, net capital inflows and (iv) net capital inflows in certain leveraged credit strategy accounts. Transaction and Monitoring Fees, Net The following table presents transaction and monitoring fees, net by business line for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020: Our Capital Markets business line earns transaction fees, which are not shared with fund investors. The increase in transaction fees was primarily due to an increase in the number of capital markets transactions for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to the year ended December 31, 2020. Overall, we completed 358 capital markets transactions for the year ended December 31, 2021, of which 60 represented equity offerings and 298 represented debt offerings, as compared to 193 transactions for the year ended December 31, 2020, of which 36 represented equity offerings and 157 represented debt offerings. We earned fees in connection with underwriting, syndication and other capital markets services. While each of the capital markets transactions that we undertake in this business line is separately negotiated, our fee rates are generally higher with respect to underwriting or syndicating equity offerings than with respect to debt offerings, and the amount of fees that we earn for similar transactions generally correlates with overall transaction sizes. Our capital markets fees are generated in connection with our Private Markets and Public Markets business lines as well as from third-party companies. For the year ended December 31, 2021, approximately 23% of our transaction fees in our Capital Markets business line were earned from unaffiliated third parties as compared to approximately 18% for the year ended December 31, 2020. Our transaction fees are comprised of fees earned from North America, Europe, and the Asia-Pacific region. For the year ended December 31, 2021, approximately 38% of our transaction fees were generated outside of North America as compared to approximately 58% for the year ended December 31, 2020. Our Capital Markets business line is dependent on the overall capital markets environment, which is influenced by equity prices, credit spreads, and volatility. Our Capital Markets business line does not generate monitoring fees. Our Private Markets and Public Markets business lines separately earn transaction and monitoring fees from portfolio companies, and under the terms of the management agreements with certain of our investment funds, we are required to share all or a portion of such fees with our fund investors. The decrease in Private Markets transaction and monitoring fees, net was primarily attributable to the write-off of outstanding monitoring fee receivables for two portfolio companies, partially offset by an increase in net transaction fees. During the year ended December 31, 2021, there were 99 transaction fee-generating investments that paid an average fee of $5.9 million compared to 76 transaction fee-generating investments that paid an average fee of $5.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2020. For the year ended December 31, 2021, approximately 55% of these transaction fees were paid by companies in North America, 25% were paid from companies in Europe, and 20% were paid from companies in the Asia-Pacific region. Transaction fees vary by investment based upon a number of factors, the most significant of which are transaction size, the particular agreements as to the amount of the fees, the complexity of the transaction, and KKR's role in the transaction. Additionally, transaction fees are generally not earned with respect to energy and real estate investments. 162 Fee Related Performance Revenues The following table presents fee related performance revenues by business line for the year ended December 31, 2021 and 2020: Fee related performance revenues earned in our Private Markets and Public Markets business lines represent realized incentive fees that are (i) measured and received on a recurring basis, and (ii) not dependent on realization events from the underlying investments. These incentive fees are primarily earned from our business development company, FS KKR Capital Corp. ("FSK") in our Public Markets business line and our real estate credit investment trust, KKR Real Estate Finance Trust Inc. ("KREF") in our Private Markets business line. The increase was primarily due to a higher level of investment income at these entities during the year ended December 31, 2021 as compared to the prior period. Fee Related Compensation The increase in fee related compensation for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the prior period is primarily due to a higher level of compensation recorded in connection with the higher level of revenues included within fee related earnings. Other Operating Expenses The increase in other operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the prior period is primarily due to a higher level of (i) professional fees and other administrative costs in connection with the overall growth of the firm and  (ii) placement fees related to capital raising activities. Fee Related Earnings The increase in fee related earnings for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the prior period is primarily due to a higher level of management fees in our Private Markets and Public Markets business lines and transaction fees from our Capital Markets business line, partially offset by a higher level of fee related compensation and other operating expenses, as described above. Realized Performance Income The following table presents realized performance income by business line for the year ended December 31, 2021 and 2020: 163 (1) The above tables exclude any funds for which there was no realized carried interest during both of the periods presented. Realized performance income includes (i) realized carried interest from our carry earning funds and (ii) incentive fees not included in Fee Related Performance Revenues. Realized carried interest in our Private Markets business line for the year ended December 31, 2021 consisted primarily of realized proceeds from the sales of our investments in The Bountiful Company (consumer products sector), Ingersoll Rand Inc. (NYSE: IR), Academy Sports & Outdoors Inc. (NASDAQ: ASO), Kokusai Electric Corporation (manufacturing sector) and Endeavor Group Holdings, Inc. (NASDAQ: EDR). Realized carried interest in our Private Markets business line for the year ended December 31, 2020 consisted primarily of realized proceeds from the sales of our investments in Deutsche Glasfaser (telecom sector), Privilege Underwriters, Inc. (financial services sector), LGC Science Group Limited (health care sector), Epicor Software Corporation, The Hut Group Limited and Fiserv, Inc. Realized carried interest in our Public Markets business line decreased for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the prior period as a result of a lower level of realization activity at certain alternative credit investment funds, from which we are eligible to take cash carry. 164 Incentive fees earned in our Private Markets business line consist primarily of incentive fees earned from assets we manage under a sub-advisory agreement with a U.K. investment fund. The increase in incentive fees for year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the prior period was primarily attributable to a higher level of investment appreciation. Incentive fees earned in our Public Markets business line consist primarily of incentive fees earned from our hedge fund partnerships and certain incentive fee eligible leveraged credit accounts. The increase in incentive fees for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the prior period was primarily attributable to a higher level of incentive fees earned from Marshall Wace. Realized Performance Income Compensation The increase in realized performance income compensation for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the prior period is primarily due to a higher level of compensation recorded in connection with the higher level of realized performance income. Realized Investment Income The following table presents realized investment income from our Principal Activities business line for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020: The increase in realized investment income is due to a higher level of net realized gains and, to a lesser extent, a higher level of interest income and dividends. The amount of realized investment income depends on the transaction activity of our funds and our subsidiaries, which can vary from period to period. For the year ended December 31, 2021, net realized gains were comprised of realized gains primarily from the sale of our investments in FanDuel Inc., Mr. Cooper Group Inc., Fiserv, Inc., The Bountiful Company, and BridgeBio Pharma Inc. Partially offsetting these realized gains were realized losses, the most significant of which were realized losses on certain hedging instruments. For the year ended December 31, 2020, net realized gains were comprised of realized gains primarily from the sale of our investments in The Hut Group Limited, Deutsche Glasfaser, Ivalua SAS, Fiserv, Inc. and BridgeBio Pharma, Inc. Partially offsetting these realized gains were realized losses, the most significant of which were realized losses on our investment in LCI Helicopters Limited, Yorktown Center (real estate) and various alternative credit strategy investments. For the year ended December 31, 2021, interest income and dividends were comprised of (i) $261.3 million of dividend income primarily from our real estate investments, including our investment in KREF, as well as our investments in Viridor Limited ($42.2 million), Kokusai Electric Corporation ($25.4 million), and Arnott's Biscuits Limited ($19.0 million) and (ii) $152.5 million of interest income primarily from our investments in CLOs and, to a lesser extent, our other credit investments. For the year ended December 31, 2020, interest income and dividends were comprised of (i) $225.4 million of dividend income from our investments in Fiserv, Inc. ($62.5 million), Epicor Software Corporation ($27.3 million) and our real assets investments, including our investment in KREF and (ii) $134.7 million of interest income from our investments in CLOs, other credit investments and, to a lesser extent, our cash balances. See "—Analysis of Non-GAAP Performance Measures—Non-GAAP Balance Sheet Measures." Prior to the acquisition of KKR Capstone on January 1, 2020, (i) KKR Capstone's financial results were consolidated in KKR's financial results in accordance with GAAP, and as such the fees and expenses attributable to KKR Capstone were included in KKR's consolidated revenues and expenses, and (ii) KKR Capstone's financial results were excluded from KKR's segment and non-GAAP financial measures, because KKR presented its segment and non-GAAP financial measures prior to 165 giving effect to the consolidation of certain entities that were not subsidiaries of KKR.  Following the acquisition of KKR Capstone on January 1, 2020, after-tax distributable earnings includes the net income (loss) from KKR Capstone within realized investment income (loss). For the year ended December 31, 2021, total fees attributable to KKR Capstone were $91.4 million, total expenses attributable to KKR Capstone were $94.6 million, and income taxes and other income attributable to Capstone were $(2.4) million. For KKR Capstone-related adjustments in reconciling Asset Management segment revenues to GAAP revenues see "—Analysis of Non-GAAP Performance Measures—Reconciliations to GAAP Measures". We expect realized performance income and realized investment income to be greater than $700 million in the first quarter of 2022 relating to realized carried interest and realized investment income from completed, or signed and expected to be completed sales, partial sales or secondary sales subsequent to December 31, 2021 with respect to certain private equity portfolio companies and other investments. Some of these transactions are not complete, and are subject to the satisfaction of closing conditions, including but not limited to regulatory approvals; there can be no assurance if or when any of these transactions will be completed. Realized Investment Income Compensation The increase in realized investment income compensation for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the prior period is primarily due to a higher level of compensation recorded in connection with the higher level of realized investment income. Other Operating and Capital Measures The following table presents certain key operating and capital metrics as of December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020: The following table presents one of our key capital metrics for the year ended December 31, 2021 and 2020: Assets Under Management Private Markets The following table reflects the changes in our Private Markets AUM from December 31, 2020 to December 31, 2021: (1) Reflects the AUM of Global Atlantic at February 1, 2021. AUM for the Private Markets business line was $257.0 billion at December 31, 2021, an increase of $108.3 billion, compared to $148.7 billion at December 31, 2020. 166 The increase was primarily attributable to (i) new capital raised from North America Fund XIII, Global Infrastructure Investors IV, our core investment strategy, and our European private equity strategy, (ii) an increase in investment value from Americas Fund XII, Asian Fund III and our core investment strategy, and (iii) assets we now manage under our investment management agreements with Global Atlantic's insurance companies. Partially offsetting these increases were distributions to our fund investors, primarily as a result of realized proceeds, most notably from Americas Fund XII, North America Fund XI, and Asian Fund III. For the year ended December 31, 2021, the value of our traditional private equity investment portfolio increased by 46%. This was comprised of a 71% increase in share prices of various publicly held or publicly indexed investments and a 37% increase in value of our privately held investments. See "—Business Environment" for more information about the factors that may impact our business, financial performance, operating results and valuations. The most significant increases in value of our publicly held investments across our Private Markets business line were increases in AppLovin Corporation (NASDAQ: APP), Max Healthcare Institute Limited (NSE: MAXHEALTH), and J.B. Chemicals and Pharmaceuticals Limited (NSE: JBCP). These increases were partially offset by decreases in share prices of various publicly held investments, the most significant of which was BridgeBio Pharma, Inc., PHC Holdings Corporation (TYO: 6523) and Fiserv, Inc. Generally speaking, the prices of publicly held investments have experienced volatility and downward pressure subsequent to December 31, 2021. The most significant increases in value of our privately held investments across our Private Markets business line were increases in Internet Brands, Inc. (technology sector), Kokusai Electric Corporation, and PetVet Care Centers, LLC. These increases in value on our privately held investments were partially offset by decreases in value relating primarily to Magneti Marelli (industrial sector), Envision Healthcare Corporation (health care sector), and Upfield (consumer products sector). The increased valuations of individual companies in our privately held investments, in the aggregate, generally related to (i) individual company performance, (ii) an increase in the value of market comparables, and (iii) with respect to Kokusai Electric Corporation, an increase in valuation reflecting an agreement to sell a minority stake in the company. The decreased valuations of individual companies in our privately held investments, in the aggregate, generally related to (i) an unfavorable business outlook and (ii) a decrease in the value of market comparables, both influenced by the impact of COVID-19 on the economic outlook and overall market environment. For the year ended December 31, 2020, the value of our traditional private equity investment portfolio increased 17%. This was comprised of a 21% increase in value of our privately held investments and a 6% increase in share prices of various publicly held or publicly indexed investments. See "—Business Environment" for more information about the factors that may impact our business, financial performance, operating results and valuations. The most significant increases in value of our privately held investments across our Private Markets businesses line were increases in AppLovin Corporation, Kokusai Electric Corporation, and Internet Brands, Inc. These increases in value on our privately held investments were partially offset by decreases in value relating primarily to Envision Healthcare Corporation, Magneti Marelli, and Emerald Media (media sector). The increased valuations of individual companies in our privately held investments, in the aggregate, generally related to (i) an increase in the value of market comparables, (ii) individual company performance, and (iii) with respect to Kokusai Electric Corporation, an increase in valuation reflecting an agreement to exit the investment. The decreased valuations of individual companies in our privately held investments, in the aggregate, generally related to (i) an unfavorable business outlook and (ii) a decrease in the value of market comparables, both influenced by the impact of COVID-19 on the economic outlook and overall market environment. The most significant increases in value of our publicly held investments across our Private Markets business line were increases in Academy Sports & Outdoor Inc., Hensoldt AG (FRA: HAG), and Max Healthcare Institute Limited. These increases were partially offset by decreases in share prices of various publicly held investments, the most significant of which were Fiserv, Inc., Laureate Education, Inc. (NASDAQ: LAUR) and BrightView Holdings Inc. (NYSE: BV). The prices of publicly held investments may experience volatile changes following the reporting period. 167 Public Markets The following table reflects the changes in our Public Markets AUM from December 31, 2020 to December 31, 2021: (1) Reflects the AUM of Global Atlantic at February 1, 2021. AUM in our Public Markets business line totaled $213.5 billion at December 31, 2021, an increase of $110.5 billion compared to AUM of $103.0 billion at December 31, 2020. The increase was primarily attributable to (i) assets we now manage under our investment management agreements with Global Atlantic's insurance companies, (ii) new capital raised from Global Atlantic since February 1, 2021, CLO issuances, and our hedge fund partnerships and (iii) to a lesser extent, an increase in investment value across our leveraged and alternative credit portfolios and at our hedge fund partnerships. Partially offsetting these increases were (i) payments made to Global Atlantic to satisfy its obligations to policyholders, (ii) redemptions at our hedge fund partnerships and leveraged credit separately managed accounts and (iii) distributions to fund investors as a result of realized proceeds at certain leveraged and alternative credit funds. See also "—Business Environment" for more information about the factors that may impact our business, financial performance, operating results and valuations. Fee Paying Assets Under Management Private Markets The following table reflects the changes in our Private Markets FPAUM from December 31, 2020 to December 31, 2021: (1) Reflects the FPAUM of Global Atlantic at February 1, 2021. FPAUM in our Private Markets business line was $154.9 billion at December 31, 2021, an increase of $60.7 billion, compared to $94.2 billion at December 31, 2020. The increase was primarily attributable to (i) new capital raised from North America Fund XIII, Global Infrastructure Investors IV, and Global Atlantic since February 1, 2021 and (ii) assets we now manage under our investment management agreements with Global Atlantic. Partially offsetting these increases were (i) distributions to fund investors, primarily as a result of realized proceeds, most notably from 2006 Fund, Global Infrastructure Investors II and North America Fund XI and (ii) net changes in the fee base for Global Infrastructure Investors III, Americas Fund XII and Health Care Strategic Growth Fund I as a result of these funds entering their post-investment periods, during which we earn fees on invested capital rather than committed capital. 168 Public Markets The following table reflects the changes in our Public Markets FPAUM from December 31, 2020 to December 31, 2021: (1) Reflects the FPAUM of Global Atlantic at February 1, 2021. FPAUM in our Public Markets business line was $202.5 billion at December 31, 2021, an increase of $110.5 billion compared to $92.0 billion at December 31, 2020. The increase was primarily attributable to (i) assets we now manage under our investment management agreements with Global Atlantic's insurance companies, (ii) new capital raised from Global Atlantic since February 1, 2021, CLO issuances, and our alternative credit funds and (iii) to a lesser extent, an increase in investment value at our hedge fund partnerships and from leveraged credit investments we manage under our investment management agreements with Global Atlantic's insurance companies. Partially offsetting these increases were (i) payments made to Global Atlantic policyholders, (ii) redemptions at our hedge fund partnerships and leveraged credit separately managed accounts and (iii) distributions to fund investors as a result of realized proceeds at certain leveraged and alternative credit funds. See "—Business Environment" for more information about the factors that may impact our business, financial performance, operating results and valuations. Uncalled Commitments Private Markets As of December 31, 2021, our Private Markets business line had $101.5 billion of remaining uncalled capital commitments that could be called for investments in new transactions as compared to $56.6 billion as of December 31, 2020. The increase was primarily attributable to new capital commitments from fund investors, which were partially offset by capital called from fund investors to make investments during the period. Public Markets As of December 31, 2021 and 2020, our Public Markets business line had $10.3 billion of remaining uncalled capital commitments that could be called for investments in new transactions. Uncalled commitments remained flat against the comparable period as new capital commitments from fund investors were offset by capital called from fund investors to make investments during the period. Capital Invested Private Markets For the year ended December 31, 2021, $38.9 billion of capital was invested by our Private Markets business line, as compared to $19.2 billion for the year ended December 31, 2020. The increase was driven primarily by a $16.6 billion increase in capital invested in our real assets strategies, and a $1.9 billion increase in capital invested in our core investment and private equity strategies. During the year ended December 31, 2021, 57% of capital deployed in private equity, growth equity (including impact) and core investments was in transactions in North America, 23% was in Europe, and 20% was in the Asia-Pacific region. Generally, the portfolio companies acquired through our private equity and core funds have higher transaction values and result in higher capital invested relative to transactions in our real assets funds. The number of large private equity and core investments made in any quarterly or year-to-date period is volatile and, consequently, a significant amount of capital invested in one period or a few periods may not be indicative of a similar level of capital deployment in future periods. 169 Public Markets For the year ended December 31, 2021, $34.4 billion of capital was invested by our Public Markets business line, as compared to $10.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2020. The increase was primarily due to (i) capital deployed under our investment management agreements with Global Atlantic's insurance companies and (ii) a higher level of capital deployed across our direct lending and SIG strategies. During the year ended December 31, 2021, 90% of capital deployed was in transactions in North America, 9% was in Europe and 1% was in the Asia-Pacific region. Analysis of Insurance Segment Operating Results As discussed above, our Insurance segment consists solely of the operations of Global Atlantic, which was acquired on February 1, 2021. Accordingly, prior periods have been excluded for Insurance segment results. For the year-ended December 31, 2021, the results of our Insurance segment is from the acquisition date, February 1, 2021, through December 31, 2021. The following tables set forth information regarding KKR's insurance segment operating results and certain key operating metrics as of and for the year ended December 31, 2021: Insurance segment operating earnings Insurance segment operating earnings were primarily driven by net investment income and stable net cost of insurance. Net investment income Net investment income was primarily driven by (i) insurance segment investments and the effective book yield (as determined, in part, by the allocated fair value of the investment portfolio as of the closing date of the Global Atlantic), and (ii) variable investment income from net realized gains from the sale of investments not related to asset/liability matching strategies, including in particular the disposition of Origis USA, LLC, a utility-scale renewable energy developer. Average insurance segment investments were primarily driven by net inflows of assets from the individual markets and institutional channels. In addition to the impact of higher asset balances, net investment income was also impacted by income from bond call and loan prepayment activity. Net cost of insurance Net cost of insurance was driven primarily by stable liability performance across in-force and new business, including favorable adjustments to reserves and policy acquisition costs resulting from higher reserves and insurance intangibles established as part of the purchase accounting for the GA Acquisition and the impact of assumption review (as described in “ –Consolidated Results of Operations (GAAP Basis) – Insurance (Unaudited)” above). General, administrative and other expenses General and administrative expenses were driven by (i) employee compensation and benefits related expenses, (ii) policy servicing fees, (iii) technology-related charges and (iv) consulting and professional fees. 170 Income taxes Insurance segment income tax expense reflects the effective tax rate for the insurance segment on an operating basis, including the benefit of investment tax credits. Net Income attributable to non-controlling interests Income attributable to non-controlling interests represent the portion of the insurance segment adjusted operating earnings attributable to rollover and co-investors in Global Atlantic. Analysis of Non-GAAP Performance Measures The following is a discussion of our Non-GAAP performance measures for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020: As discussed in the Analysis of Segment Operating Results, following the acquisition of Global Atlantic, we re-evaluated our operating structure and the manner by which we manage and assess the performance of our businesses and allocates our resources. In the first quarter of 2021 we changed the presentation of our non-GAAP performance measures principally to reflect how we evaluate our business following the Global Atlantic acquisition. We also believe that this revised presentation improves the comparability of our non-GAAP financial information with that provided by other publicly traded companies in the alternative asset management industry. Distributable Operating Earnings The increase in distributable operating earnings for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the prior period is primarily due to a higher level of Asset Management segment operating earnings and the addition of our Insurance segment operating earnings in connection with the Global Atlantic acquisition. For a discussion of the Asset Management and Insurance segment operating earnings, see "—Analysis of Asset Management Segment Operating Results and Analysis of Insurance Segment Operating Results." Interest Expense For the year ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, interest expense relates primarily to the interest expense from our senior notes outstanding for KKR and KFN. The increase in interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the prior period is primarily attributable to new note issuances. Preferred Dividends The decrease in preferred dividends for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the prior period was attributable to the redemption of all of our Series A and B preferred stock outstanding during the year ended December 31, 2021. 171 Income Taxes Paid The increase in income taxes paid for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the prior period was primarily due to a higher level of distributable operating earnings. After-tax Distributable Earnings The increase in after-tax distributable earnings for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the prior period was primarily due to a higher level of distributable operating earnings, partially offset by an increase in income taxes paid and interest expense, as discussed above. For the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, the amount of the tax benefit from equity-based compensation included in income taxes paid was $123.1 million and $59.1 million, respectively. The inclusion of the tax benefit from equity-based compensation in After-tax Distributable Earnings had the effect of increasing this measure by 3% for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020. Analysis of Asset Management Segment Operating Results The following tables set forth information regarding KKR's Asset Management segment operating results for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019: Management Fees The following table presents management fees by business line for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019: The increase in Private Markets management fees was primarily attributable to management fees earned from Asian Fund IV, Next Generation Technology Growth Fund II, and Asia Pacific Infrastructure Investors which entered their investment periods subsequent to December 31, 2019. These increases were partially offset by (i) a decrease in management fees earned from Asian Fund III as it entered its post-investment period in the third quarter of 2020, in which it pays fees based on capital invested rather than capital committed and pays fees at a lower rate, and (ii) a decrease in management fees earned from 172 European Fund IV as it entered its post investment period in the second quarter of 2019, in which it pays fees based on capital invested rather than remaining commitments and capital invested during the investment period. The increase in Public Markets management fees was primarily attributable to management fees earned from new capital raised within the leveraged credit strategy, the issuance of new CLOs and greater overall FPAUM at our direct lending and asset-based finance strategies, partially offset by a lower level of management fees earned in certain alternative credit strategies, most notably special situations. Transaction and Monitoring Fees, Net The following table presents transaction and monitoring fees, net by business line for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019: Our Capital Markets business line earns transaction fees, which are not shared with fund investors. The increase in transaction fees was primarily due to an increase in the size of capital markets transactions for the year ended December 31, 2020, compared to the year ended December 31, 2019. Overall, we completed 193 capital markets transactions for the year ended December 31, 2020, of which 36 represented equity offerings and 157 represented debt offerings, as compared to 192 transactions for the year ended December 31, 2019, of which 28 represented equity offerings and 164 represented debt offerings. We earned fees in connection with underwriting, syndication and other capital markets services. While each of the capital markets transactions that we undertake in this business line is separately negotiated, our fee rates are generally higher with respect to underwriting or syndicating equity offerings than with respect to debt offerings, and the amount of fees that we earn for similar transactions generally correlates with overall transaction sizes. Our capital markets fees are generated in connection with our Private Markets and Public Markets business lines as well as from third-party companies. For the year ended December 31, 2020, approximately 18% of our transaction fees in our Capital Markets business line were earned from unaffiliated third parties as compared to approximately 23% for the year ended December 31, 2019. Our transaction fees are comprised of fees earned from North America, Europe, and the Asia-Pacific region. For the year ended December 31, 2020, approximately 58% of our transaction fees were generated outside of North America as compared to approximately 61% for the year ended December 31, 2019. Our Capital Markets business line is dependent on the overall capital markets environment, which is influenced by equity prices, credit spreads, and volatility. Our Capital Markets business line does not generate monitoring fees. Our Private Markets and Public Markets business lines separately earn transaction and monitoring fees from portfolio companies, and under the terms of the management agreements with certain of our investment funds, we are required to share all or a portion of such fees with our fund investors. The decrease in Private Markets transaction and monitoring fees, net was primarily attributable to a decrease in net transaction fees. During the year ended December 31, 2020, there were 76 transaction fee-generating investments that paid an average fee of $5.2 million compared to 59 transaction fee-generating investments that paid an average fee of $7.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2019. For the year ended December 31, 2020, approximately 36% of these transaction fees were paid by companies in North America, 34% were paid from companies in Europe, and 30% of these transaction fees were paid from companies in the Asia-Pacific region. Transaction fees vary by investment based upon a number of factors, the most significant of which are transaction size, the particular agreements as to the amount of the fees, the complexity of the transaction, and KKR's role in the transaction. Additionally, transaction fees are generally not earned with respect to energy and real estate investments. 173 Partially offsetting the decrease in net transaction fees was an increase in net monitoring fees. The increase in net monitoring fees was primarily due to an increase in recurring monitoring fees compared to the prior period, as well as higher termination payments. Recurring monitoring fees increased $10.5 million, which was primarily the result of an increase in the number of portfolio companies paying monitoring fees. For the year ended December 31, 2020, we had 66 portfolio companies that were paying an average monitoring fee of $1.7 million compared with 59 portfolio companies that were paying an average monitoring fee of $1.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2019. For the year ended December 31, 2020, we received termination payments of $13.2 million in connection with the IPOs of Academy Sports & Outdoors, Inc. (NASDAQ: ASO) and Calisen PLC (LSE: CLSN LN) compared to $2.1 million of termination payments received in the year ended December 31, 2019 relating to the IPO of Trainline PLC. These termination payments may occur in the future; however, they are infrequent in nature and are generally correlated with the IPO and other realization activity in our private equity portfolio. Fee Related Performance Revenues The following table presents fee related performance revenues by business line for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019: Fee related performance revenues earned in our Private Markets and Public Markets business lines represent realized incentive fees that are (i) measured and received on a recurring basis, and (ii) not dependent on realization events from the underlying investments. These incentive fees are primarily earned from our business development companies in our Public Markets business line and our real estate credit investment trust, KKR Real Estate Finance Trust Inc. ("KREF") in our Private Markets business line. The decrease was primarily due to a lower level of investment income at our business development companies during the year ended December 31, 2020 as compared to the prior period. Fee Related Compensation The increase in fee related compensation for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the prior period was primarily due to a higher level of compensation recorded in connection with the higher level of revenues included within fee related earnings. Other Operating Expenses The decrease in other operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the prior period was primarily due to a decrease in travel related expenses as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. These decreases were partially offset by a higher level of professional fees and other administrative costs in connection with the growth of the firm. Fee Related Earnings The increase in fee related earnings for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the prior period was primarily due to a higher level of management fees and transaction fees from our Capital Markets business line, partially offset by a higher level of fee related compensation and a lower level of fee related performance revenues, as described above. 174 Realized Performance Income The following table presents realized performance income by business line for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019: (1) The above tables exclude any funds for which there was no realized carried interest during both of the periods presented. Realized performance income included (i) realized carried interest from our carry earning funds and (ii) incentive fees not included in Fee Related Performance Revenues. 175 Realized carried interest in our Private Markets business line for the year ended December 31, 2020 consisted primarily of realized proceeds from the sales of our investments in Deutsche Glasfaser, Privilege Underwriters, Inc., LGC Science Group Limited, Epicor Software Corporation, The Hut Group Limited, and Fiserv, Inc. Realized carried interest in our Private Markets business line for the year ended December 31, 2019 consisted primarily of realized proceeds from the sales of our investments in Sedgwick Claims Management Services, Inc. and Trainline PLC and dividends received from our investment in Fiserv, Inc. Realized carried interest in our Public Markets business line increased for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the prior period as a result of a higher level of realization activity at certain alternative credit investment funds, which we are  eligible to take cash carry. Incentive fees earned in our Public Markets business line consisted primarily of incentive fees earned from our hedge fund partnerships and certain incentive fee eligible leveraged credit accounts. The increase in incentive fees for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the prior period was primarily attributable to a higher level of incentive fees earned from our hedge fund partnership, Marshall Wace. Realized Performance Income Compensation The decrease in realized performance income compensation for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the prior period was primarily due to a lower level of compensation recorded in connection with the higher level of realized performance income. Realized Investment Income The following table presents realized investment income from our Principal Activities business line for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019: The decrease in realized investment income was due to a lower level of interest income and dividends, partially offset by a higher level of net realized gains. The amount of realized investment income depends on the transaction activity of our funds and our subsidiaries, which can vary from period to period. For the year ended December 31, 2020, interest income and dividends were comprised of (i) $225.4 million of dividend income from our investment in Fiserv, Inc. ($62.5 million), Epicor Software Corporation ($27.3 million) and our real assets investments, including our real estate investment in KREF and (ii) $134.7 million of interest income from our investments in CLOs, other credit investments, and to a lesser extent our cash balances. For the year ended December 31, 2019, interest income and dividends were comprised of (i) $336.7 million of dividend income from our investment in Fiserv, Inc. and our real assets investments, including our real estate investment in KREF and (ii) $159.2 million of interest income which consists primarily of interest from our investments in CLOs, other credit investments, and our cash balances. See "—Analysis of Non-GAAP Performance Measures—Non-GAAP Balance Sheet Measures." For the year ended December 31, 2020, net realized gains were comprised of realized gains primarily from the sale of our investments in The Hut Group Limited, Deutsche Glasfaser, Ivalua SAS, Fiserv, Inc. and BridgeBio Pharma, Inc. Partially offsetting these realized gains were realized losses, the most significant of which were realized losses on our investment in LCI Helicopters Limited, Yorktown Center and various alternative credit strategy investments. 176 For the year ended December 31, 2019, net realized gains were comprised of realized gains primarily from the sale of our investments in Trainline PLC, GEG German Estate Group AG (financial services sector), and Sedgwick Claims Management Services, Inc., and the sale of certain investments in our special situations funds. Partially offsetting these realized gains were realized losses, the most significant of which was a realized loss on the sale of our investment in DoubleDutch, Inc. See "—Analysis of Non-GAAP Performance Measures—Non-GAAP Balance Sheet Measures." Prior to the acquisition of KKR Capstone on January 1, 2020, (i) KKR Capstone's financial results were consolidated in KKR's financial results in accordance with GAAP, and as such the fees and expenses attributable to KKR Capstone were included in KKR's consolidated revenues and expenses, and (ii) KKR Capstone's financial results were excluded from KKR's segment and non-GAAP financial measures, because KKR presented its segment and non-GAAP financial measures prior to giving effect to the consolidation of certain entities that were not subsidiaries of KKR.  Following the acquisition of KKR Capstone on January 1, 2020, after-tax distributable earnings includes the net income (loss) from KKR Capstone within realized investment income (loss). For the year ended December 31, 2020, total fees attributable to KKR Capstone were $81.5 million, total expenses attributable to KKR Capstone were $65.7 million, and income taxes and other income attributable to Capstone were $(1.5) million. For KKR Capstone-related adjustments in reconciling Asset Management segment revenues to GAAP revenues see "—Analysis of Non-GAAP Performance Measures—Reconciliations to GAAP Measures". Realized Investment Income Compensation The decrease in realized investment income compensation for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the prior period was primarily due to a lower level of compensation recorded in connection with the lower level of realized investment income. Analysis of Non-GAAP Performance Measures The following is a discussion of our Non-GAAP performance measures for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019: Distributable Operating Earnings The increase in distributable operating earnings for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the prior period was primarily due to a higher level of fee related earnings and realized performance income, partially offset by a lower level of realized investment income. For a discussion of the Asset Management, see "—Analysis of Asset Management Segment Operating Results." Interest Expense For the year ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, interest expense related primarily to the interest expense from our senior notes outstanding for KKR and KFN. The increase in interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the prior period was primarily attributable to new note issuances. 177 Income Taxes Paid The increase in income taxes paid for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the prior period was primarily due to a higher level of distributable operating earnings. After-tax Distributable Earnings The increase in after-tax distributable earnings for the year ended December 31, 2020 compared to the prior period was primarily due to a higher level of distributable operating earnings, partially offset by an increase in income taxes paid and interest expense, as discussed above. Non-GAAP Balance Sheet Measures Book Value The following table presents our calculation of book value as of December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020: (1) The following table provides net unrealized carried interest by business line: (2) Other Assets include KKR's ownership interest in FS/KKR Advisor and minority ownership interests in hedge fund partnerships. Book value per adjusted share increased 25% from December 31, 2020. The increase was primarily attributable to (i) the net appreciation in the value of our investment portfolio, including investment income from investments held by KKR as well as carried interest from investments held through investment funds, especially KKR's private equity, real assets and alternative credit funds, where KKR is entitled to earn carried interest, and (ii) after-tax distributable earnings during the period. Partially offsetting this increase was (i) the payment of dividends and the repurchases of our common stock during the period and (ii) an adjustment to book value to reflect the implied amount of (1) tax assets and liabilities attributable to KKR Holdings L.P. as if it was subject to corporate income taxes (although this adjustment was not applied to prior periods, had this adjustment been made as of December 31, 2020, book value would have been reduced by $459 million as of such date) and (2) the recognition of deferred tax liabilities relating to certain assets of KKR Group Partnership L.P. that is expected to occur upon the completion of the mergers contemplated by the Reorganization Agreement. The impact of this adjustment was a reduction to book value of $1,396 million as of December 31, 2021. 178 With respect to book value relating to the Asset Management business, for the year ended December 31, 2021, the value of the Asset Management segment balance sheet portfolio increased 28% and KKR's traditional private equity portfolio increased by 46%. The increases in KKR's Asset Management segment balance sheet portfolio and net unrealized carried interest was primarily due to mark-to-market net investment gains. For a further discussion, see "—Unaudited Consolidated Results of Operations (GAAP Basis) - Asset Management—Unrealized Gains and Losses from Investment Activities."  For a discussion of the changes in KKR's private equity portfolio, see "—Analysis of Asset Management Segment Operating Results—Assets Under Management." For a discussion of factors that impacted KKR's after-tax distributable earnings, see "—Analysis of Non-GAAP Performance Measures— After-tax Distributable Earnings" and for more information about the factors that may impact our business, financial performance, operating results and valuations, see "—Business Environment." 179 The following table presents the holdings of our investments in the Asset Management segment by asset class as of December 31, 2021. To the extent investments are realized at values below their cost in future periods, after-tax distributable earnings would be adversely affected by the amount of such loss, if any, during the period in which the realization event occurs. (1) Investments is a term used solely for purposes of financial presentation of a portion of KKR's balance sheet and includes majority ownership of subsidiaries that operate KKR's asset management and insurance businesses, including the general partner interests of KKR's investment funds. Investments presented are principally the assets measured at fair value that are held by KKR's asset management segment, which, among other things, does not include the underlying investments held by Global Atlantic and Marshall Wace. (2) Significant Investments include the top five investments based on their fair values as of December 31, 2021. Significant Investments exclude (i) investments expected to be syndicated, (ii) investments expected to be transferred in connection with a new fundraising, and (iii) investments in funds and other entities that are owned by one or more third parties and established for the purpose of making investments. Accordingly, this list of Significant Investments should not be relied upon as a substitute for information about the asset class exposure of KKR's balance sheet. For information about the asset class exposure of KKR's balance sheet see "—Our Business—Principal Activities" for the "Holdings by Asset Class" pie chart. The fair value figures include the co-investment and the limited partner and/or general partner interests held by KKR in the underlying investment, if applicable. 180 With respect to KKR's book value relating to its insurance business, KKR includes Global Atlantic's book value, which consists of KKR's pro rata equity interest in Global Atlantic on a GAAP basis, excluding (i) accumulated other comprehensive income and (ii) accumulated change in fair value of reinsurance embedded derivative balances and related assets, net of deferred acquisition costs and income tax.  KKR believes this presentation of Global Atlantic's book value is comparable with the corresponding metric presented by other publicly traded companies in Global Atlantic's industry.  As of December 31, 2021, KKR's pro rata interest in Global Atlantic's book value was $3.4 billion.  For more information about the composition and credit quality of Global Atlantic's investments on a consolidated basis, please see "--Global Atlantic's Investment Portfolio" below. Global Atlantic's Investment Portfolio As of December 31, 2021, 97% and 87% of Global Atlantic's AFS fixed maturity securities were considered investment grade under ratings from the Securities Valuation Office of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC") and nationally recognized statistical rating organizations ("NRSROs"), respectively. Securities where a rating by an NRSRO was not available are considered investment grade if they have an NAIC designation of “1” or “2.” The three largest asset categories in Global Atlantic's AFS fixed-maturity security portfolio as of December 31, 2021 were Corporate, RMBS and CMBS securities, comprising 34%, 6% and 5% of Global Atlantic's investment portfolio, respectively. Within these categories, 95%, 96% and 99% of Global Atlantic's Corporate, RMBS and CMBS securities, respectively, were investment grade according to NAIC ratings and 95%, 38% and 62% of its Corporate, RMBS and CMBS securities, respectively, were investment grade according to NRSRO ratings as of December 31, 2021. NRSRO and NAIC ratings have different methodologies. Global Atlantic believes the NAIC ratings methodology, which considers the likelihood of recovery of amortized cost as opposed to the recovery of all contractual payments including the principal at par, as the more appropriate way to view the ratings quality of its AFS fixed maturity portfolio since a large portion of its holdings were purchased at a significant discount to par value. The portion of Global Atlantic's AFS fixed maturity portfolio consisting of floating rate assets was 36% as of December 31, 2021. Within the funds withheld receivable at interest portfolio, 96% of the fixed maturity securities were investment grade by NAIC designation as of December 31, 2021. Global Atlantic also maintains a $13.8 billion fixed maturity securities portfolio classified as trading which underlie the funds withheld payable at interest obligation from certain reinsurance transactions. The investment performance from the fixed maturity securities in this trading portfolio is ceded to reinsurers under the terms of their reinsurance agreements. Credit quality of AFS fixed maturity securities The Securities Valuation Office of the NAIC evaluates the AFS fixed maturity security investments of insurers for regulatory reporting and capital assessment purposes and assigns securities to one of six credit quality categories called “NAIC designations.” Using an internally developed rating is permitted by the NAIC if no rating is available. These designations are generally similar to the credit quality designations of NRSROs for marketable fixed maturity securities, except for certain structured securities as described below. NAIC designations of “1,” highest quality, and “2,” high quality, include fixed maturity securities generally considered investment grade by NRSROs. NAIC designations “3” through “6” include fixed maturity securities generally considered below investment grade by NRSROs. Consistent with the NAIC Process and Procedures Manual, an NRSRO rating was assigned based on the following criteria: (i) the equivalent S&P rating where the security is rated by one NRSRO; (ii) the equivalent S&P rating of the lowest NRSRO when the security is rated by two NRSROs; and (iii) the equivalent S&P rating of the second lowest NRSRO if the security is rated by three or more NRSROs. If the lowest two NRSROs’ ratings are equal, then such rating will be the assigned rating. NRSROs’ ratings available for the periods presented were S&P, Fitch, Moody’s, DBRS, Inc. and Kroll Bond Rating Agency, Inc. If no rating is available from a rating agency, then an internally developed rating is used. Substantially all of the AFS fixed maturity securities portfolio, 97% as of December 31, 2021, was invested in investment grade assets with a NAIC rating of 1 or 2. The portion of the AFS fixed maturity securities portfolio that was considered below investment grade by NAIC designation was 3% as of December 31, 2021. Pursuant to Global Atlantic's investment guidelines, it actively monitors the percentage of its portfolio that is held in investments rated NAIC 3 or lower and must obtain an additional approval from Global Atlantic's management investment committee before making a significant investment in an asset rated NAIC 3 or lower. As of December 31, 2021, the non-rated AFS fixed-maturity securities include $118.8 million of private placement securities for which Global Atlantic has not sought individual ratings from the NRSROs. 181 Corporate fixed maturity securities Global Atlantic maintains a diversified portfolio of corporate fixed maturity securities across industries and issuers. As of December 31, 2021, 60% of the AFS fixed maturity securities portfolio was invested in corporate fixed maturity securities. As of December 31, 2021, 95% of the total fair value of corporate fixed maturity securities is rated NAIC investment grade, and 95% is rated NRSROs investment grade. Residential mortgage-backed securities As of December 31, 2021, 11% of the AFS fixed maturity securities portfolio was invested in RMBS. RMBS are securities constructed from pools of residential mortgages and backed by payments from those pools. Excluding limitations on access to lending and other extraordinary economic conditions, we would expect prepayments of principal on the underlying loans to accelerate with decreases in market interest rates and diminish with increases in market interest rates. The NAIC designations for RMBS, including prime, sub-prime, alt-A, and adjustable rate mortgages with variable payment options ("Option ARM"), are based upon a comparison of the bond’s amortized cost to the NAIC’s loss expectation for each security. Accordingly, an investment in the same security at a lower cost may result in a higher quality NAIC designation in recognition of the lower likelihood the investment would result in a realized loss. Prime residential mortgage lending includes loans to the most creditworthy borrowers with high quality credit profiles. Alt-A is a classification of mortgage loans where the risk profile of the borrower is between prime and sub-prime. Sub-prime mortgage lending is the origination of residential mortgage loans to borrowers with weak credit profiles. As of December 31, 2021, 93% of RMBS securities that are below investment grade as rated by the NRSRO, carry an NAIC 1 ("highest quality") designation. As of December 31, 2021, Alt-A, Option ARM, Re-Performing and Sub-prime represent 33%, 30%, 14% and 12% of the total RMBS portfolio ($7.7 billion), respectively. Unrealized gains and losses for AFS fixed maturity securities Global Atlantic's investments in AFS fixed maturity securities are reported at fair value with changes in fair value recorded in other comprehensive income as unrealized gains or losses, net of taxes and offsets. Unrealized gains and losses can be created by changes in interest rates or by changes in credit spreads. As of December 31, 2021, Global Atlantic had gross unrealized losses on below investment grade AFS fixed maturity securities of $80.3 million based on NRSRO rating and $13.5 million based on NAIC ratings. Mortgage and other loan receivables - Credit quality indicators Mortgage and other loan receivables consist of commercial and residential mortgage loans, and other loan receivables. As of December 31, 2021, 23% of Global Atlantic's total investments consisted of mortgage and other loan receivables. Global Atlantic invests in U.S. mortgage loans, comprised of first lien and mezzanine real estate loans, residential mortgage loans, consumer loans, and other loan receivables. Global Atlantic's commercial mortgage loans may also be rated based on NAIC designations, with designations “CM1” and “CM2” considered to be investment grade. As of December 31, 2021, 96% of the commercial mortgage loan portfolio was rated investment grade based on NAIC designation. 100% of the commercial mortgage loan portfolio is in current status. As of December 31, 2021, 96% of the residential mortgage loan portfolio is in current status, and approximately $202.7 million is over 90 days past due (representing 2% of the total residential mortgage portfolio). The loan-to-value ratio is expressed as a percentage of the current amount of the loan relative to the value of the underlying collateral. Approximately 83% of the commercial mortgage loans has a loan-to-value ratio of 70% or less and a 0.3% has loan-to-value ratio over 90%. Changing economic conditions affect Global Atlantic’s valuation of commercial mortgage loans. Changing vacancies and rents are incorporated into the discounted cash flow analysis that Global Atlantic performs for monitored loans and may contribute to the establishment of (or increase or decrease in) a commercial mortgage loan valuation allowance for losses. In addition, Global Atlantic continuously monitors its commercial mortgage loan portfolio to identify risk. Areas of emphasis are properties that have exposure to specific geographic events, or have deteriorating credit. The weighted average loan-to-value ratio for residential mortgage loans was 68% as of December 31, 2021. 182 Global Atlantic's residential mortgage loan portfolio is comprised mainly of re-performing loans that were purchased at a discount after they were modified and returned to performing status, as well as prime jumbo loans and mortgage loans backed by single family rental properties. Global Atlantic has also extended financing to counterparties in the form of repurchase agreements secured by mortgage loans, including performing and non-performing mortgage loans. Global Atlantic’s consumer loan portfolio is primarily comprised of home improvement loans, solar panel loans, student loans and auto loans. Reconciliations to GAAP Measures The following tables reconcile the most directly comparable financial measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP to KKR's non-GAAP financial measures for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020, and 2019: Revenues (1) Total Segment Revenues is comprised of (i) Management Fees, (ii) Transaction and Monitoring Fees, Net, (iii) Fee Related Performance Revenues, (iv) Realized Performance Income, (v) Realized Investment Income, and (vi) Net Investment Income. 183 Net Income (Loss) Attributable to KKR & Co. Inc. Common Stockholders (1)    Represents a $22.8 million non-recurring make-whole premium associated with KKR's refinancing of its 6.375% Senior Notes due 2020 during the year ended December 31, 2019. 184 KKR & Co. Inc. Stockholders' Equity - Common Stock (1)    Includes an adjustment to book value to reflect the implied amount of (1) tax assets and liabilities attributable to KKR Holdings L.P. as if it was subject to corporate income taxes and (2) the recognition of deferred tax liabilities relating to certain assets of KKR Group Partnership L.P. that is expected to occur upon the completion of the mergers contemplated by the Reorganization Agreement. The impact of this adjustment was a reduction to book value of $1,396 million as of December 31, 2021. The following table provides reconciliations of KKR's GAAP Shares of Common Stock Outstanding to Adjusted Shares: (1) Consists of vested restricted holdings units granted under our 2019 Equity Incentive Plan, which are exchangeable for shares of KKR & Co. Inc. common stock on a one-for-one basis. (2) Assumes that all shares of Series C Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock have been converted to shares of KKR & Co. Inc. common stock on December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020. (3) Amounts exclude unvested equity awards granted under our Equity Incentive Plans. (4) Represents equity awards granted under our Equity Incentive Plans. The issuance of common stock of KKR & Co. Inc. pursuant to equity awards under our Equity Incentive Plans dilutes KKR common stockholders and KKR Holdings pro rata in accordance with their respective ownership interests in the KKR bus iness. Excludes market condition awards that did not meet their market-price based vesting conditions as of December 31, 2021 and December 31, 2020. Liquidity We manage our liquidity and capital requirements by (i) focusing on our cash flows before the consolidation of our funds and CFEs and the effect of changes in short term assets and liabilities, which we anticipate will be settled for cash within one year, and (ii) seeking to maintain access to sufficient liquidity through various sources.  The overall liquidity framework and cash management approach of our insurance business are also based on seeking to build an investment portfolio that is cash flow matched, providing cash inflows from insurance assets that meet our insurance companies' expected cash outflows to pay their liabilities. Our primary cash flow activities typically involve: (i) generating cash flow from operations; (ii) generating income from investment activities, by investing in investments that generate yield (namely interest and dividends), as well as through the sale of investments and other assets; (iii) funding capital commitments that we have made to, and advancing capital to, our funds and CLOs; (iv) developing and funding new investment strategies, investment products, and other growth initiatives, including acquisitions of other investments, assets, and businesses; (v) underwriting and funding commitments in our capital markets business; (vi) distributing cash flow to our stockholders and holders of our preferred stock; and (vii) paying borrowings, interest payments, and repayments under credit agreements, our senior and subordinated notes, and other borrowing arrangements. See "—Liquidity—Liquidity Needs—Dividends." 185 See "—Business Environment" for more information on factors that may impact our business, financial performance, operating results and valuations. Sources of Liquidity Our primary sources of liquidity consist of amounts received from: (i) our operating activities, including the fees earned from our funds, portfolio companies, and capital markets transactions; (ii) realizations on carried interest from our investment funds; (iii) interest and dividends from investments that generate yield, including our investments in CLOs; (iv) in our insurance business, cash inflows in respect of new premiums, policyholder deposits, reinsurance transactions and funding agreements, including through memberships in Federal Home Loan Banks; (v) realizations on and sales of investments and other assets, including the transfers of investments or other assets for fund formations (including CLOs and other investment vehicles); and (vi) borrowings, including advances under our revolving credit facilities, debt offerings, committed repurchase agreements, uncommitted financing, and other borrowing arrangements. In addition, we may generate cash proceeds from issuances of our equity securities. Many of our investment funds provide carried interest. With respect to our private equity funds, carried interest is distributed to the general partner of a private equity fund with a clawback provision only after all of the following are met: (i) a realization event has occurred (e.g., sale of a portfolio company, dividend, etc.); (ii) the vehicle has achieved positive overall investment returns since its inception, in excess of performance hurdles where applicable, and is accruing carried interest; and (iii) with respect to investments with a fair value below cost, cost has been returned to fund investors in an amount sufficient to reduce remaining cost to the investments' fair value. As of December 31, 2021, certain of our funds had met the first and second criteria, as described above, but did not meet the third criteria. In these cases, carried interest accrues on the consolidated statement of operations, but will not be distributed in cash to us as the general partner of an investment fund upon a realization event. For a fund that has a fair value above cost, overall, and is otherwise accruing carried interest, but has one or more investments where fair value is below cost, the shortfall between cost and fair value for such investments is referred to as a "netting hole." When netting holes are present, realized gains on individual investments that would otherwise allow the general partner to receive carried interest distributions are instead used to return invested capital to our funds' limited partners in an amount equal to the netting hole. Once netting holes have been filled with either (a) return of capital equal to the netting hole for those investments where fair value is below cost or (b) increases in the fair value of those investments where fair value is below cost, then realized carried interest will be distributed to the general partner upon a realization event. A fund that is in a position to pay cash carry refers to a fund for which carried interest is expected to be paid to the general partner upon the next material realization event, which includes funds with no netting holes as well as funds with a netting hole that is sufficiently small in size such that the next material realization event would be expected to result in the payment of carried interest. Strategic investor partnerships with fund investors may require netting across the various funds in which they invest, which may reduce the carried interest we otherwise would have earned if such fund investors were to have invested in our funds without the existence of the strategic investor partnership. See "Risk Factors—Risks Related to Our Business—Strategic investor partnerships have longer investment periods and invest in multiple strategies, which may increase the possibility of a 'netting hole,' which will result in less carried interest for us, as well as clawback liabilities" in this report. As of December 31, 2021, netting holes in excess of $50 million existed at one of our private equity funds, which was Asian Fund II of $415 million. In accordance with the criteria set forth above, other funds currently have and may in the future develop netting holes, and netting holes for those and other funds may otherwise increase or decrease in the future. We have access to funding under various credit facilities, other borrowing arrangements and other sources of liquidity that we have entered into with major financial institutions or which we receive from the capital markets. For a discussion of our debt obligations, including our debt securities, revolving credit agreements and loans, see Note 16 "Debt Obligations" in our financial statements. 186 Liquidity Needs We expect that our primary liquidity needs will consist of cash required to: • continue to support and grow our business lines, including funding our capital commitments made to existing and future funds, pay the costs related to fundraising and launching of new strategies, and otherwise supporting investment vehicles which we sponsor; • seed or warehouse investments for the benefit of new strategies or funds, including CLOs, pending the contribution of committed capital by the investors in such funds, and advancing capital to our funds for operational or other needs; • pay interest expense; • service debt obligations, including the payment of obligations upon maturity or redemption, as well as any contingent liabilities that may give rise to future cash payments, including funding requirements to levered investment vehicles or structured transactions; • fund cash operating expenses and contingencies, including litigation matters and guarantees; • pay corporate income taxes and other taxes; • pay policyholders and amounts in our insurance business related to investment, reinvestment, reinsurance or funding agreement activity; • pay amounts that may become due under our tax receivable agreement with KKR Holdings; • pay cash dividends in accordance with our dividend policy for our common stock or the terms of our preferred stock; • underwrite commitments, advance loan proceeds and fund syndication commitments within our capital markets business, and fund any net capital or regulatory requirements of our capital markets companies; • post or return collateral in respect of derivative contracts; • support and acquire other assets for our Principal Activities business line, including other businesses, investments and assets, some of which may be required to satisfy risk retention requirements for CLOs (to the extent they may apply); and • repurchase KKR's common stock or retire equity awards pursuant to the share repurchase program or repurchase or redeem other securities issued by KKR. For a discussion of KKR's share repurchase program, see Note 22 "Equity" in our financial statements. 187 Capital Commitments The agreements governing our active investment funds generally require the general partners of the funds to make minimum capital commitments to such funds, which generally range from 2% to 8% of a fund's total capital commitments at final closing, but may be greater for certain funds (i) where we are pursuing newer strategies, (ii) where third party investor demand is limited, and (iii) where a larger commitment is consistent with the asset allocation strategy for our Principal Activities business line, including core investments and exposure to the Asia-Pacific region. The following table presents our uncalled commitments to our active investment funds and other vehicles as of December 31, 2021: 188 Other Commitments In addition to the uncalled commitments to our investment funds as shown above, KKR has entered into contractual commitments primarily with respect to underwriting transactions, debt financing, revolving credit facilities, and syndications in our capital markets business line. As of December 31, 2021, these commitments amounted to $1.2 billion. Whether these amounts are actually funded, in whole or in part, depends on the contractual terms of such commitments, including the satisfaction or waiver of any conditions to closing or funding. Our capital markets business has arrangements with third parties, which reduce our risk under certain circumstances when underwriting certain debt transactions, and thus our unfunded commitments as of December 31, 2021 have been reduced to reflect the amount to be funded by such third parties. In the case of purchases of investments or assets in our Principal Activities business line, the amount to be funded includes amounts that are intended to be syndicated to third parties, and the actual amounts to be funded may be less.  For more information about our capital markets business line's risks, see "Risks Related to Our Business—Our capital markets activities expose us to risks, and our risk management strategy may not be effective or sufficient." On January 14, 2020, KKR had committed to invest up to an additional $150 million in our India debt finance company to support its alternative credit business in India. No amounts were contributed by KKR, and on September 8, 2021, the commitment was terminated. During the third quarter of 2021, our India debt finance company entered into a transaction to merge with Incred Finance, the consummation of which is still pending. Tax Receivable Agreement We are required to acquire KKR Group Partnership Units from time to time pursuant to our exchange agreement with KKR Holdings, which is expected to result in an increase in our tax basis of the assets of KKR Group Partnership at the time of an exchange of KKR Group Partnership Units. We have entered into a tax receivable agreement with KKR Holdings, which requires us to pay to KKR Holdings, or to current and former limited partners who have exchanged KKR Holdings units for KKR's common stock as transferees of KKR Group Partnership Units, 85% of the amount of cash savings, if any, in U.S. federal, state and local income tax that we realize as a result of the increase in tax basis described above, as well as 85% of the amount of any such savings we realize as a result of increases in tax basis that arise due to future payments under the tax receivable agreement. As of December 31, 2021, an undiscounted payable of $399.2 million has been recorded in due to affiliates in the financial statements representing management's best estimate of the amounts currently expected to be owed under the tax receivable agreement. As of December 31, 2021, approximately $50.2 million of cumulative cash payments have been made under the tax receivable agreement. Following the closing of the merger transactions contemplated by the Reorganization Agreement, there will be no more exchanges of KKR Group Partnership Units held by KKR Holdings. Additionally, the tax receivable agreement will terminate upon the closing of the mergers contemplated by the Reorganization Agreement, except that the obligations of KKR to make payments under the tax receivable agreement will remain outstanding until paid in full for certain exchanges that took place prior to the termination of the tax receivable agreement.  Although our employees who hold restricted holdings units under our 2019 Equity Plan (which includes limited partner interests in KKR Holdings II) will be entitled to exchange those interests for common stock pursuant to the exchange agreement, there will be no payments due for any of those exchanges under the tax receivable agreement. Dividends A dividend of $0.145 per share of our common stock has been declared for the quarter ended December 31, 2021, which will be paid on March 4, 2022 to holders of record of our common stock as of the close of business on February 18, 2022. A dividend of $0.75 per share of Series C Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock has been declared and set aside for payment on March 15, 2022 to holders of record of Series C Mandatory Convertible Preferred Stock as of the close of business on March 1, 2022. When KKR & Co. Inc. receives distributions from KKR Group Partnership, other equityholders in KKR Group Partnership including KKR Holdings receive their pro rata share of such distributions from KKR Group Partnership. The declaration and payment of dividends to our common stockholders will be at the sole discretion of our board of directors, and our dividend policy may be changed at any time. We announced on February 8, 2022 that our current dividend policy will be to pay dividends to holders of our common stock in an annual aggregate amount of $0.62 per share (or a quarterly dividend of $0.155 per share) beginning with the dividend to be announced with the results for the first quarter of 2022. The declaration of dividends is subject to the discretion of our board of directors based on a number of factors, including KKR’s 189 future financial performance and other considerations that the board deems relevant, and compliance with the terms of KKR & Co. Inc.'s certificate of incorporation and applicable law. For U.S. federal income tax purposes, any dividends we pay (including dividends on our preferred stock) generally will be treated as qualified dividend income for U.S. individual stockholders to the extent paid out of our current or accumulated earnings and profits, as determined for U.S. federal income tax purposes. There can be no assurance that future dividends will be made as intended or at all or that any particular dividend policy for our common stock will be maintained. Furthermore, the declaration and payment of distributions by KKR Group Partnership and our other subsidiaries may also be subject to legal, contractual and regulatory restrictions, including restrictions contained in our debt agreements and the terms of the preferred units of KKR Group Partnership. Preferred Stock For a discussion of KKR's equity, including our preferred stock, see Note 22 "Equity" in our financial statements. Other Liquidity Needs From time to time, we fund various underwriting, syndication and fronting commitments in our capital markets business in connection with the arranging or underwriting of loans, securities or other financial instruments, for which we may draw all or substantially all of our availability for borrowings under our available credit facilities. We generally expect these borrowings by our capital markets business to be repaid promptly as these commitments are syndicated to third parties or otherwise fulfilled or terminated, although we may in some instances elect to retain a portion of the commitments for our own investment.  For more information about our capital markets business line's risks, see "Risks Related to Our Business—Our capital markets activities expose us to risks, and our risk management strategy may not be effective or sufficient." Contractual Obligations, Commitments and Contingencies In the ordinary course of business, we (including Global Atlantic) and our consolidated funds and CFEs enter into contractual arrangements that may require future cash payments. Contractual arrangements include (1) commitments to fund the purchase of investments or other assets (including obligations to fund capital commitments as the general partner of our investment funds) or to fund collateral for derivative transactions or otherwise, (2) obligations arising under our senior notes, subordinated notes, and other indebtedness, (3) commitments by our capital markets business to underwrite transactions or to lend capital, (4) obligations arising under insurance policies written, (5) other contractual obligations, including servicing agreements with third-party administrators for insurance policy administration, and (6) commitments to fund the business, operations or investments of our subsidiaries. 190 The following table sets forth information relating to anticipated future cash payments as of December 31, 2021 excluding consolidated funds and CFEs with a reconciliation of such amounts to anticipated future cash payments by us (including Global Atlantic) and our consolidated funds and CFEs. (1) These uncalled commitments represent amounts committed by us to fund a portion of the purchase price paid for each investment made by our investment funds which are actively investing. Because capital contributions are due on demand, the above commitments have been presented as falling due within one year. However, given the size of such commitments and the pace at which our investment funds make investments, we expect that the capital commitments presented above will be called over a period of several years. See "—Revolving Credit Agreements, Senior Notes, KFN Debt Obligation, KFN Securities and Real Estate Financing—Liquidity Needs." (2) Amounts include senior notes and subordinated notes issued by KKR and its subsidiaries. KFN's debt obligations are non-recourse to KKR beyond the assets of KFN. (3) These interest obligations on debt represent estimated interest to be paid over the term of the related debt obligation, which has been calculated assuming the debt outstanding at December 31, 2021 is not repaid until its maturity. Future interest rates are assumed to be those in effect as of December 31, 2021, including both variable and fixed rates, as applicable, provided for by the relevant debt agreements. The amounts presented above include accrued interest on outstanding indebtedness. (4) Represents various commitments in our capital markets business in connection with the underwriting of loans, securities and other financial instruments. These commitments are shown net of amounts syndicated. (5) Represents obligations in our capital markets business to lend under various revolving credit facilities. (6) Represents commitments of KKR's asset management business line including KFN to fund the purchase of various investments. (7) Global Atlantic has other obligations related to collateral payable held for derivative instruments ($1.1 billion) and outstanding commitments to make investments in commercial mortgage loans, other lending facilities and other investments ($2.0 billion) which have not been included in the above table as the exact timing of these payments cannot be estimated.  Global Atlantic's debt obligations are non-recourse to KKR beyond the assets of Global Atlantic. (8) Policy liabilities for insurance obligations consist of amounts required to meet future obligations for future policy benefits and policy account balances. Amounts presented in the table represent estimated cash payments under such contracts, including significant assumptions related to the receipt of future premiums, mortality, lapse, renewal, withdrawal, and annuitization comparable with actual experience. These assumptions also include market growth and policy crediting consistent with assumptions used in amortizing DAC. All estimated cash payments are not discounted to present value. Accordingly, the total of cash flows presented for all years of $158.3 billion significantly exceeds total policy liabilities of $126.5 billion recorded on the statements of financial condition as of December 31, 2021. Estimated cash payments are also presented gross of reinsurance. Due to the significance of the assumptions used, the amounts presented could differ materially from actual results. (9) The payments due by period for debt obligations reflects the contractual maturities of principal. 191 (10) Reflects estimated future interest payments. Future interest on variable rate debt (which includes borrowing under our revolving credit facility and the subordinated debentures) was computed using prevailing rates as of December 31, 2021 and, as such, does not consider the impact of future rate movements. Future interest on fixed rate debt was computed using the stated rate on the obligations. (11) Reflects operational servicing agreements with third-party administrators for policy administration. (12) Represents uncalled commitments of our consolidated funds excluding KKR's portion of uncalled commitments as the general partner of the respective funds. Because capital contributions are due on demand, the above commitments have been presented as falling due within one year. However, given the size of such commitments and the pace at which our investment funds make investments, we expect that the capital commitments presented above will be called over a period of several years. See "—Revolving Credit Agreements, Senior Notes, KFN Debt Obligation, KFN Securities and Real Estate Financing—Liquidity Needs." (13) Amounts include (i) financing arrangements entered into by our consolidated funds with the objective of providing liquidity to the funds of $6.9 billion, (ii) debt securities issued by our consolidated CLOs of $21.3 billion and (iii) borrowings collateralized by fund investments, fund co-investments and other assets held by levered investment vehicles of $1.9 billion. Debt securities issued by consolidated CLO entities are supported solely by the investments held at the CLO vehicles and are not collateralized by assets of any other KKR entity. Borrowings by levered investment vehicles are supported solely by the investments held at the investment vehicles and are not collateralized by assets of any other KKR entity. Obligations under financing arrangements entered into by our consolidated funds are generally limited to our pro rata equity interest in such funds. Our management companies bear no obligations to repay any financing arrangements at our consolidated funds. (14) Represents a debt obligation in connection with the ownership of KKR office space. (15) The interest obligations on debt of our CFEs and other borrowings represent estimated interest to be paid over the term of the related debt obligation, which has been calculated assuming the debt outstanding at December 31, 2021 is not repaid until its maturity. Future interest rates are assumed to be those in effect as of December 31, 2021, including both variable and fixed rates, as applicable, provided for by the relevant debt agreements. The amounts presented above include accrued interest on outstanding indebtedness. The commitment table above excludes contractual amounts owed under the tax receivable agreement because the ultimate amount and timing of the amounts due are not presently known. See "—Liquidity Needs—Tax Receivable Agreement" in this report and "Risk Factors—We will be required to pay our principals for most of the benefits relating to our use of tax attributes we receive from prior and future exchanges of our common stock for KKR Group Partnership Units and related transactions , and the timing and value of these tax attributes differ from those of our restricted stock units " in this report. We may incur contingent liabilities for claims that may be made against us in the future. We enter into contracts that contain a variety of representations, warranties and covenants, including indemnifications. For example, certain of our investment funds and KKR have provided certain indemnities relating to environmental and other matters and have provided non-recourse carve-out guarantees for violations of bankruptcy remoteness restrictions and for fraud, willful misconduct and other wrongful acts, each in connection with the financing of (i) certain real estate investments that we have made, including KKR's corporate real estate, and (ii) certain investment vehicles we manage or sponsor. KKR has also (i) provided credit support regarding repayment and funding obligations to third-party lenders to certain of its employees, excluding its executive officers, in connection with their personal investments in KKR investment funds and a levered investment vehicle and (ii) provided credit support to one of our hedge fund partnerships. We have also indemnified employees and non-employees against potential liabilities in connection with their services, including as described under "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence—Indemnification of Directors, Officers and Others" in this report. In addition, we have also provided credit support to certain of our subsidiaries' obligations in connection with certain investment vehicles or partnerships that we manage. For example, KKR has guaranteed the obligations of a general partner to post collateral on behalf of its investment vehicle in connection with such vehicle's derivative transactions. We expect to continue to guarantee the obligations of one or more of our subsidiaries’ funding obligations to one or more of our investment vehicles, from time to time.  KKR has also agreed to cause various of its general partners to fund their capital commitments to their funds and to be liable for such general partners' compliance with certain covenants, including limitations on their incurrence of certain kinds of indebtedness.  In addition, we have also agreed for certain of our investment vehicles to fund or otherwise be liable for a portion of certain investment losses, if any, (up to a maximum of approximately $116 million) and/or to provide them with liquidity upon certain termination events (the maximum amount of which is unknown until the scheduled termination date of the investment vehicle). The partnership documents governing our carry-paying funds generally include a "clawback" provision that, if triggered, may give rise to a contingent obligation requiring the general partner to return amounts to the fund for distribution to the fund investors at the end of the life of the fund. See Note 24 "Commitments and Contingencies—Contingent Repayment Guarantees" in our financial statements for further information on KKR's potential clawback obligations. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We do not have any off-balance sheet financings or liabilities other than contractual commitments and other legal contingencies incurred in the normal course of our business. 192 Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of our financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires our management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities, and reported amounts of fees, expenses and investment income. Our management bases these estimates and judgments on available information, historical experience and other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. However, these estimates, judgments and assumptions are often subjective and may be impacted negatively based on changing circumstances or changes in our analyses. If actual amounts are ultimately different from those estimated, judged or assumed, revisions are included in the financial statements in the period in which the actual amounts become known. We believe our critical accounting policies could potentially produce materially different results if we were to change underlying estimates, judgments or assumptions. The following discusses certain aspects of our critical accounting policies. For a full discussion of these and all critical accounting policies, see Note 2 "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" in our financial statements. Critical Accounting Policies - Asset Management Recognition of Investment Income Investment income consists primarily of the net impact of: (i) realized and unrealized gains and losses on investments; (ii) dividends; (iii) interest income; (iv) interest expense and (v) foreign exchange gains and losses relating to mark-to-market activity on foreign exchange forward contracts, foreign currency options, foreign denominated debt and debt securities issued by consolidated CFEs. Certain of our investment funds are consolidated. When a fund is consolidated, the portion of our funds' investment income that is allocable to our carried interests and capital investments is not shown in the consolidated statements of operations. For funds that are consolidated, all investment income (loss), including the portion of a funds' investment income (loss) that is allocable to KKR's carried interest, is included in investment income (loss) on the consolidated statements of operations. The carried interest that KKR retains in net income (loss) attributable to KKR & Co. Inc. is reflected as an adjustment to net income (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests. However, because certain of our funds remain consolidated and because we hold a minority economic interest in these funds' investments, our share of the investment income is less than the total amount of investment income presented in the consolidated statements of operations for these consolidated funds. Recognition of Carried Interest in the Statement of Operations Carried interest entitles the general partner of a fund to a greater allocable share of the fund's earnings from investments relative to the capital contributed by the general partner and correspondingly reduces noncontrolling interests' attributable share of those earnings. Carried interest is earned by the general partner of those funds to the extent that cumulative investment returns are positive and where applicable, preferred return thresholds have been met. If these investment returns decrease or turn negative in subsequent periods, recognized carried interest will be reversed and reflected as losses in the statement of operations. For funds that are not consolidated, amounts earned pursuant to carried interest are included in capital allocation-based income (loss) in the consolidated statements of operations. Amounts earned pursuant to carried interest at consolidated funds are eliminated upon consolidation of the fund and are included as investment income (loss) in net gains (losses) from investment activities along with all of the other investment gains and losses at the consolidated fund. Carried interest is recognized in the statement of operations based on the contractual conditions set forth in the agreements governing the fund as if the fund were terminated and liquidated at the reporting date and the fund's investments were realized at the then estimated fair values. Due to the extended durations of our private equity and other funds, we believe that this approach results in income recognition that best reflects our periodic performance in the management of those funds. Amounts earned pursuant to carried interest are earned by the general partner of those funds to the extent that cumulative investment returns are positive and where applicable, preferred return thresholds have been met. If these investment amounts earned decrease or turn negative in subsequent periods, recognized carried interest will be reversed and to the extent that the aggregate amount of carry distributions received by the general partner during the term of the fund exceed the amount to which the general partner was ultimately entitled, a clawback obligation would be recorded. For funds that are not consolidated, this clawback obligation, if any, is reflected as a reduction of our investment balance as this is where carried interest is initially recorded. For funds that are consolidated, this clawback obligation, if any, is reflected as an increase in noncontrolling interests in the consolidated statements of financial condition. 193 Before carried interest is distributed, KKR calculates whether a preferred return has been achieved based on an amount that includes (i) capital contributions for investments, (ii) net realized investment gains, and (iii) management fees and fund expenses paid by the limited partners. To the extent the fund has exceeded the preferred return at the time of a realization event, and subject to any other conditions that would preclude payment of carried interest to the general partner (e.g. netting holes), carried interest is distributed to the general partner. Until the preferred return is achieved, no carried interest is recorded. Thereafter, the general partner is entitled to a catch up allocation such that the general partner's carried interest is paid in respect of all of the fund's net gains until the general partner has received the full percentage amount of carried interest that the general partner is entitled to under the terms of the fund. The amount ultimately distributed to the general partner as carried interest is calculated as net gains applicable to our limited partners, less all management fees and fund expenses paid to date, multiplied by the applicable carry rate. In general, investment funds that entitle the management company to receive an incentive fee have a preferred return and are calculated on a similar basis that takes into account management fees and expenses paid. Critical Accounting Policies - Insurance Policy liabilities Policy liabilities (collectively, "reserves,") are the portion of past premiums or assessments received that are set aside to meet future policy and contract obligations as they become due. Interest accrues on the reserves and on future premiums, which may also be available to pay for future obligations. Global Atlantic establishes reserves to pay future policy benefits, claims, and certain expenses for its life policies and annuity contracts. Global Atlantic's reserves are estimated based on models that include many actuarial assumptions and projections. These assumptions and projections, which are inherently uncertain, involve significant judgment, including assumptions as to the levels and/or timing of premiums, benefits, claims, expenses, interest credits, investment results (including equity market returns), mortality, longevity, and persistency. The assumptions on which reserves are based are intended to represent an estimation of experience for the period that policy benefits are payable. Global Atlantic reviews the adequacy of its reserves and the assumptions underlying those reserves at least annually. Global Atlantic cannot, however, determine with precision the amount or the timing of actual benefit payments. If actual experience is better than or equal to the assumptions, then reserves would be adequate to provide for future benefits and expenses. If experience is worse than the assumptions, additional reserves may be required to meet future policy and contract obligations. This would result in a charge to our net income during the period in which excess benefits are paid or an increase in reserves occurs. For a majority of Global Atlantic's in-force policies, including its universal life policies and most annuity contracts, the base policy reserve is equal to the account value. For these products, the account value represents its obligation to repay to the policyholder the amounts held on deposit. However, there are several significant blocks of business where policy reserves, in addition to the account value, are explicitly calculated, including variable annuities, fixed-indexed annuities, universal life products with secondary guarantees, indexed universal life and preneed policies. Guaranteed minimum death benefits ("GMDB") Some of Global Atlantic's variable annuity and fixed-indexed annuity contracts contain a GMDB feature that provides a guarantee that the benefit received at death will be no less than a prescribed minimum amount, even if the account balance is reduced to zero. This amount is based on either the net deposits paid into the contract, the net deposits accumulated at a specified rate, the highest historical account value on a contract anniversary, or sometimes a combination of these values. If the GMDB is higher than the current account value at the time of death, Global Atlantic incurs a cost equal to the difference. Guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits ("GMWB") Global Atlantic issues fixed-indexed annuity and variable annuity contracts with a guaranteed minimum withdrawal feature. GMWB are an optional benefit where the contract owner is entitled to withdraw a maximum amount of their benefit base each year. Once exercised, living benefit features provide annuity policyholders with a minimum guaranteed stream of income for life. A policyholder’s annual income benefit is generally based on an annual withdrawal percentage multiplied by the benefit base. The benefit base is defined in the policy and is generally the initial premium, reduced by any partial withdrawals and increased by a defined percentage, formula or index credits. Any living benefit payments are first deducted from the account value. Global Atlantic is responsible for paying any excess guaranteed living benefits still owed after the account value has reached zero. 194 The ultimate cost of these benefits will depend on the level of market returns and the level of contractual guarantees, as well as policyholder behavior, including surrenders, withdrawals, and benefit utilization. For fixed-indexed annuity products, costs also include certain non-guaranteed terms that impact the ultimate cost, such as caps on crediting rates that Global Atlantic can, in its discretion, reset annually. GMDB and GMWB sensitivities As of December 31, 2021, the GMDB and GMWB liability balance totaled $1.1 billion. As of December 31, 2021, the liability balances for GMDB were $26.7 million for fixed-indexed annuities and $21.6 million for variable annuities. As of December 31, 2021, the liability balances for GMWB were $1.0 billion for fixed-indexed annuities. The increase (decrease) to the GMDB and GMWB liability balance as a result of hypothetical changes in projected assessments, equity market prices, and annual equity growth is summarized in the table below. This sensitivity considers the direct effect of such changes only and not changes in any other assumptions used in or items considered in the measurement of such balances. _ _______________ Note: Hypothetical changes to the liability balance do not reflect the impact of related hedges. (1) The assessments used to accrue liabilities are generally based on investment yields, realized gains and losses, rider charges, surrender charges, and asset-based fees, such as mortality and expense fees. Embedded derivatives Global Atlantic's fixed-indexed annuity, variable annuity and indexed universal life products contain equity-indexed features, which are considered embedded derivatives and are required to be measured at fair value. The embedded derivative is calculated as the present value of future projected benefits in excess of the projected guaranteed benefits, using an option budget as the indexed account value growth rate. In addition, the fair value of the embedded derivative is reduced to reflect the risk of non-performance on Global Atlantic's obligations (i.e., own credit risk). Changes in interest rates, future index credits, Global Atlantic's own credit risk, projected withdrawal and surrender activity, and mortality on fixed-indexed annuity and indexed universal life contracts can have a significant impact on the value of the embedded derivative. Valuation of embedded derivatives – Fixed-indexed annuities Fixed-indexed annuity contracts allow the policyholder to elect a fixed interest rate of return or a market indexed strategy where interest credited is based on the performance of an index, such as the S&P 500 Index, or other indexes. The market indexed strategy is an embedded derivative, similar to a call option. The fair value of the embedded derivative is computed as the present value of benefits attributable to the excess of the projected policy contract values over the projected minimum guaranteed contract values. The projections of policy contract values are based on assumptions for future policy growth, which include assumptions for expected index credits, future equity option costs, volatility, interest rates, and policyholder behavior. The projections of minimum guaranteed contract values include the same assumptions for policyholder behavior as are used to project policy contract values. The embedded derivative cash flows are discounted using a risk-free interest rate increased by a non-performance risk spread tied to Global Atlantic's own credit rating. Valuation of embedded derivatives – Indexed universal life Indexed universal life products allow a policyholder’s account value to grow based on the performance of certain equity indexes, which result in an embedded derivative similar to a call option. The embedded derivative related to the index is 195 bifurcated from the host contract and measured at fair value. The valuation of the embedded derivative is the present value of future projected benefits in excess of the projected guaranteed benefits, using the option budget as the indexed account value growth rate and the guaranteed interest rate as the guaranteed account value growth rate. Present values are based on discount rate curves determined at the valuation or issue date as well as assumed lapse and mortality rates. The discount rate equals the forecast treasury rate plus a non-performance risk spread tied to Global Atlantic’s own credit rating. Changes in discount rates and other assumptions such as spreads and/or option budgets can have a substantial impact on the embedded derivative. Valuation of embedded derivatives – Variable annuities Variable annuity contracts offered and assumed by Global Atlantic provide the contractholder with GMDB and/or GMWB. The liabilities for these benefits are included in policy liabilities in the consolidated statement of financial condition. The change in the liabilities for these benefits is included in policy benefits and claims in the consolidated statements of operation. Global Atlantic has issued variable annuity contracts with GMDB features. Global Atlantic elected the fair value option to measure the liability for certain of these variable annuity contracts, valued at $519.5 million as December 31, 2021. Fair value is calculated as the present value of the estimated death benefits less the present value of the GMDB fees, using 1,000 risk neutral scenarios. Global Atlantic discounts the cash flows using U.S. Treasury rates plus an adjustment for its own company credit risk. Global Atlantic also issues variable annuity contracts with a GMWB. The GMWB feature represents an embedded derivative. The embedded derivative is required to be bifurcated and measured at fair value. This liability is calculated as the present value of the excess GMWB claims less the present value of GMWB fees, using 1,000 risk neutral scenarios. Global Atlantic discounts the cash flows using U.S. Treasury rates plus an adjustment for its own company credit risk. As of December 31, 2021, the embedded derivative liability balance totaled $1,856.1 million for fixed-indexed annuities, $557.3 million for indexed universal life and $127.8 million for variable annuities. As of December 31, 2021, variable annuities accounted for using the fair value option was $519.5 million. The increase (decrease) to the embedded derivatives on fixed-indexed annuity, indexed universal life, and variable annuity products and the increase (decrease) in the reserves for variable annuities accounted for using the fair value option as a result of hypothetical changes in interest rates, non-performance risk premium, and equity market prices is summarized in the table below. This sensitivity considers the direct effect of such changes only and not changes in any other assumptions used in or items considered in the measurement of such balances. ________________ Note: Hypothetical changes to the liability balances do not reflect the impact of related hedges. Valuation of embedded derivatives in modified coinsurance or funds withheld Global Atlantic's reinsurance agreements include modified coinsurance and coinsurance with funds withheld arrangements that include terms that require payment by the ceding company of a principal amount plus a return that is based on a proportion of the ceding company’s return on a designated portfolio of assets. Because the return on the funds withheld receivable or payable is not clearly and closely related to the host insurance contract, these contracts are deemed to contain embedded derivatives, which are measured at fair value. Global Atlantic is exposed to both the market risk and the credit risk of the assets. Changes in discount rates and other assumptions can have a significant impact on this embedded derivative. The fair value of the embedded derivatives is included in the funds withheld receivable at interest and funds withheld payable at interest line 196 items on the consolidated statement of financial condition. The change in the fair value of the embedded derivatives is recorded in net investment-related gains (losses) in the consolidated statement of operations. As of December 31, 2021, the embedded derivative balance for modified coinsurance or funds withheld arrangements was a $81.3 million net asset ($42.2 million in funds withheld receivables at interest, and $(39.1) million in funds withheld payable at interest). The increase (decrease) to the balance as a result of hypothetical changes in credit spreads and interest rates is summarized in the table below. This sensitivity considers the direct effect of such changes only and not changes in any other factors that impact the embedded derivative balance for modified coinsurance or funds withheld arrangements. ________________ Note: Hypothetical changes to the funds withheld receivable and payable embedded derivative balances do not reflect the impact of related hedges or trading assets which back the funds withheld at interest. 197 Critical Accounting Policies - Combined Fair Value Measurements Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date under current market conditions. GAAP establishes a hierarchical disclosure framework which prioritizes and ranks the level of market price observability used in measuring financial instruments at fair value.  Investments and other financial instruments measured and reported at fair value are classified and disclosed based on the observability of inputs used in the determination of fair values, as follows: Level I Pricing inputs are unadjusted, quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities as of the measurement date. Level II Pricing inputs are other than quoted prices in active markets, which are either directly or indirectly observable as of the measurement date, and fair value is determined through the use of models or other valuation methodologies. Level III Pricing inputs are unobservable for the financial instruments and include situations where there is little, if any, market activity for the financial instrument. The inputs into the determination of fair value require significant management judgment or estimation. The valuation of our Level III investments at December 31, 2021 represents management's best estimate of the amounts that we would anticipate realizing on the sale of these investments in an orderly transaction at such date. In certain cases, the inputs used to measure fair value may fall into different levels of the fair value hierarchy. In such cases, the level in the fair value hierarchy within which the fair value measurement in its entirety falls has been determined based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety. Level III Valuation Methodologies Our investments and financial instruments are impacted by various economic conditions and events outside of our control that are difficult to quantify or predict, which may have a significant impact on the valuation of our investments and, therefore, on the carried interest and investment income we realize. Additionally, a change in interest rates could have a significant impact on valuations. Across the total Level III private equity investment portfolio (including core equity investments), and including investments in both consolidated and unconsolidated investment funds, approximately 50% of the fair value is derived from investments that are valued based exactly 50% on market comparables and 50% on a discounted cash flow analysis. Less than 5% of the fair value of this Level III private equity investment portfolio is derived from investments that are valued either based 100% on market comparables or 100% on a discounted cash flow analysis. As of December 31, 2021, the overall weights ascribed to the market comparables methodology, the discounted cash flow methodology, and a methodology based on pending sales for this portfolio of Level III private equity investments were 37%, 50%, and 13%, respectively. There is inherent uncertainty involved in the valuation of Level III investments, and there is no assurance that, upon liquidation, KKR will realize the values reflected in our valuations. Our valuations may differ significantly from the values that would have been used had an active market for the investments existed, and it is reasonably possible that the difference could be material. See "—Business Environment" for more information on factors that may impact our business, financial performance, operating results and valuations. Key unobservable inputs that have a significant impact on our Level III valuations as described above are included in Note 9 "Fair Value Measurements" in our financial statements. 198 Level III Valuation Process The valuation process involved for Level III measurements is completed on a quarterly basis and is designed to subject the valuation of Level III investments to an appropriate level of consistency, oversight, and review. For Private Markets investments classified as Level III, investment professionals prepare preliminary valuations based on their evaluation of financial and operating data, company specific developments, market valuations of comparable companies and other factors. KKR begins its procedures to determine the fair values of its Level III assets approximately one month prior to the end of a reporting period, and KKR follows additional procedures to ensure that its determinations of fair value for its Level III assets are appropriate as of the relevant reporting date. These preliminary valuations are reviewed by an independent valuation firm engaged by KKR to perform certain procedures in order to assess the reasonableness of KKR's valuations annually for all Level III investments in Private Markets and quarterly for investments other than certain investments, which have values less than preset value thresholds and which in the aggregate comprise less than 1% of the total value of KKR's Level III Private Markets investments. The valuations of certain real asset investments are determined solely by independent valuation firms without the preparation of preliminary valuations by our investment professionals, and instead such independent valuation firms rely on valuation information available to it as a broker or valuation firm. For credit investments in Public Markets, an independent valuation firm is generally engaged by KKR to assist with the valuations of most investments classified as Level III. The valuation firm either provides a value, provides a valuation range from which KKR's investment professionals select a point in the range to determine the valuation, or performs certain procedures in order to assess the reasonableness of KKR's valuations. After reflecting any input from the independent valuation firm, the valuation proposals are submitted for review and approval by KKR's valuation committees. As of December 31, 2021, less than 5% of the total value of our Level III credit investments were not valued with the engagement of an independent valuation firm. For Level III investments in Asset Management, KKR has a global valuation committee that is responsible for coordinating and implementing the firm's valuation process to ensure consistency in the application of valuation principles across portfolio investments and between periods. The global valuation committee is assisted by the asset class-specific valuation committees that exist for private equity (including core equity investments and certain impact investments), growth equity (including certain impact investments), real estate, energy, infrastructure and credit. The asset class-specific valuation committees are responsible for the review and approval of all preliminary Level III valuations in their respective asset classes on a quarterly basis. The members of these valuation committees are comprised of investment professionals, including the heads of each respective strategy, and professionals from business operations functions such as legal, compliance and finance, who are not primarily responsible for the management of the investments. All Level III valuations for investments in Asset Management are also subject to approval by the global valuation committee, which is comprised of senior employees including investment professionals and professionals from business operations functions, and includes one of KKR's Co-Chief Executive Officers and its Chief Financial Officer, General Counsel and Chief Compliance Officer.  When valuations are approved by the global valuation committee after reflecting any input from it, the valuations of Level III investments, as well as the valuations of Level I and Level II investments, are presented to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors of KKR & Co. Inc. and are then reported to the Board of Directors. Level III investments held by Global Atlantic are valued on the basis of pricing services, reputable broker-dealers or internal models. Global Atlantic performs a quantitative and qualitative analysis and review of the information and prices received from independent pricing services as well as broker-dealers to verify that it represents a reasonable estimate of fair value. For all the internally developed models, Global Atlantic seeks to verify the reasonableness of fair values by analyzing the inputs and other assumptions used. As of December 31, 2021, approximately 62% of these investments were priced via external sources, while approximately 38% were valued on the basis of internal models. When valuations are approved by Global Atlantic's management, the valuations of its Level III investments, as well as the valuations of Level I and Level II investments, are presented to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors of KKR & Co. Inc. and are then reported to the Board of Directors. As of December 31, 2021, upon completion by, where applicable, independent valuation firms of certain limited procedures requested to be performed by them on certain Level III investments, the independent valuation firms concluded that the fair values, as determined by KKR (including Global Atlantic), of those investments reviewed by them were reasonable. The limited procedures did not involve an audit, review, compilation or any other form of examination or attestation under generally accepted auditing standards and were not conducted on all Level III investments. We are responsible for determining the fair value of investments in good faith, and the limited procedures performed by an independent valuation firm are supplementary to the inquiries and procedures that we are required to undertake to determine the fair value of the commensurate investments. There were no changes made to our Level III valuation process as a result of COVID-19. 199 As described above, Level II and Level III investments were valued using internal models with significant unobservable inputs, and our determinations of the fair values of these investments may differ materially from the values that would have resulted if readily observable inputs had existed. Additional external factors may cause those values, and the values of investments for which readily observable inputs exist, to increase or decrease over time, which may create volatility in our earnings and the amounts of assets and stockholders' equity that we report from time to time. Changes in the fair value of investments impacts the amount of carried interest that is recognized as well as the amount of investment income that is recognized for investments held directly in Asset Management and through our consolidated funds as described below. We estimate that an immediate 10% decrease in the fair value of investments held directly and through consolidated investment funds generally would result in a commensurate change in the amount of net gains (losses) from investment activities for investments held directly and through investment funds and a more significant impact to the amount of carried interest recognized, regardless of whether the investment was valued using observable market prices or management estimates with significant unobservable pricing inputs. With respect to consolidated investment funds, the impact that the consequential decrease in investment income would have on net income attributable to KKR would generally be significantly less than the amount described above, given that a majority of the change in fair value of our consolidated funds would be attributable to noncontrolling interests and therefore we are only impacted to the extent of our carried interest and our balance sheet investments.  With respect to Insurance, a decrease in investment income for certain assets where investment gains and losses are recognized through the statement of operations would impact KKR only to the extent of our economic ownership interest in Global Atlantic. As of December 31, 2021, there were no investments which represented greater than 5% of total investments on a GAAP basis. On a non-GAAP basis, as of December 31, 2021, investments which represented greater than 5% of total non-GAAP investments consisted of PetVet Care Centers, LLC and USI, Inc. valued at $1,216.1 million and $1,094.1 million,  respectively. Our investment income on a GAAP basis and our book value can be impacted by volatility in the public markets related to our holdings of publicly traded securities, including our sizable holdings of Fiserv, Inc. and BridgeBio Pharma Inc. See "—Business Environment" for a discussion of factors that may impact the valuations of our investments, financial results, operating results and valuations, and "—Non-GAAP Balance Sheet Measures" for additional information regarding our largest holdings on a non-GAAP basis. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements For a full discussion of recently issued accounting pronouncements, see Note 2 "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" in our financial statements. 200