********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

You should carefully consider the risks described below, in addition to the other information contained in this document.   Realization of any of the following risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flows and results of operations. Risks Related to Operating our Business The COVID-19 pandemic has adversely affected, and could continue to adversely affect, our business. The COVID-19 pandemic and the efforts to control it have resulted in a significant decline in global economic activity and significant disruption of global supply chains.  Governments around the world have implemented stringent measures to help reduce the spread of the virus, including stay-at-home orders, business and school closures, travel restrictions and other measures.  The resulting downturn in economic activity has negatively impacted global demand and prices for crude oil, natural gas, NGL, refined petroleum products, CO 2 , steel, chemicals and other products that we handle in our pipelines, terminals, shipping vessels and other facilities. See Item 2. “ Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—General—COVID-19. ”  Continuing uncertainty regarding the global impact of COVID-19 is likely to result in continued weakness in demand and prices for the products on which our business depends. As the pandemic and responses to it continue, we may experience further disruptions to commodities markets, supply chains and the health, availability and efficiency of our workforce, which could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business and operations and limit our ability to execute on our business plan.  In addition, measures taken by regulatory authorities attempting to mitigate the economic consequences of COVID-19 may not be effective or may have unintended harmful consequences.  There are still too many variables and uncertainties regarding COVID-19 — including the pace and efficacy of vaccination efforts, the duration and severity of possible resurgences and the duration and extent of travel restrictions and business closures imposed in affected countries — to reasonably predict the potential impact of COVID-19 on our business and operations.  COVID-19 may materially adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows.  Even after the COVID-19 pandemic has subsided, we may experience materially adverse impacts to our business due to the global economic recession that is likely to result from the measures taken to combat the virus.  Further, adverse impacts from the pandemic may have the effect of heightening many of the other risks we face. 21 Our businesses are dependent on the supply of and demand for the products that we handle. Our pipelines, terminals and other assets and facilities, including the availability of expansion opportunities, depend in part on continued production of natural gas, crude oil and other products in the geographic areas that they serve.  Our business also depends in part on the levels of demand for natural gas, crude oil, NGL, refined petroleum products, CO 2 , steel, chemicals and other products in the geographic areas to which our pipelines, terminals, shipping vessels and other facilities deliver or provide service, and the ability and willingness of our shippers and other customers to supply such demand.  For example, without additions to crude oil and gas reserves, production will decline over time as reserves are depleted, and production costs may rise.  Producers may reduce or shut down production during times of lower product prices or higher production costs to the extent they become uneconomic.  Producers in areas served by us may not be successful in exploring for and developing additional reserves, and our pipelines and related facilities may not be able to maintain existing volumes of throughput. Commodity prices and tax incentives may not remain at levels that encourage producers to explore for and develop additional reserves, produce existing marginal reserves or renew transportation contracts as they expire.  Additionally, demand for such products can decline due to situations over which we have no control, such as the COVID-19 pandemic and various measures that federal, state and local authorities have implemented in response to the virus or its economic consequences.  See “— The COVID-19 pandemic has adversely affected, and could continue to adversely affect, our business.” In addition to economic disruptions resulting from events such as COVID-19, conditions in the business environment generally, such as declining or sustained low commodity prices, supply disruptions, or higher development or production costs, could result in a slowing of supply to our pipelines, terminals and other assets.  Also, sustained lower demand for hydrocarbons, or changes in the regulatory environment or applicable governmental policies, including in relation to climate change or other environmental concerns, may have a negative impact on the supply of crude oil and other products.  In recent years, a number of initiatives and regulatory changes relating to reducing GHG emissions have been undertaken by federal, state and municipal governments and crude oil and gas industry participants.  In addition, public concern about the potential risks posed by climate change has resulted in increased demand for energy efficiency and a transition to energy provided from renewable energy sources, rather than fossil fuels, fuel-efficient alternatives such as hybrid and electric vehicles, and pursuit of other technologies to reduce GHG emissions, such as carbon capture and sequestration.  We may see an intensification of these trends if and to the extent that the new U.S. presidential administration succeeds in enacting its energy and environmental policies. These factors could result in not only increased costs for producers of hydrocarbons but also an overall decrease in the demand for hydrocarbons.  Each of the foregoing could negatively impact our business directly as well as our shippers and other customers, which in turn could negatively impact our prospects for new contracts for transportation, terminaling or other midstream services, or renewals of existing contracts or the ability of our customers and shippers to honor their contractual commitments.  Furthermore, such unfavorable conditions may compound the adverse effects of larger disruptions such as COVID-19.  See “— Financial distress experienced by our customers or other counterparties could have an adverse impact on us in the event they are unable to pay us for the products or services we provide or otherwise fulfill their obligations to us” below. We cannot predict the impact of future economic conditions, fuel conservation measures, alternative fuel requirements, governmental regulation or technological advances in fuel economy and energy generation devices, all of which could reduce the production of and/or demand for the products we handle.  In addition, irrespective of supply of or demand for products we handle, implementation of new regulations or changes to existing regulations affecting the energy industry could have a material adverse effect on us. We face competition from other pipelines and terminals, as well as other forms of transportation and storage. Competition is a factor affecting our existing businesses and our ability to secure new project opportunities.  Any current or future pipeline system or other form of transportation (such as barge, rail or truck) that delivers the products we handle into the areas that our pipelines serve could offer transportation services that are more desirable to shippers than those we provide because of price, location, facilities or other factors.  Likewise, competing terminals or other storage options may become more attractive to our customers.  To the extent that competitors offer the markets we serve more desirable transportation or storage options, or customers opt to construct their own facilities for services previously provided by us, this could result in unused capacity on our pipelines and in our terminals.  We also could experience competition for the supply of the products we handle from both existing and proposed pipeline systems; for example, several pipelines access many of the same areas of supply as our pipeline systems and transport to destinations not served by us.  If capacity on our assets remains unused, our ability to re-contract for expiring capacity at favorable rates or otherwise retain existing customers could be impaired.  In addition, to the 22 extent that companies pursuing development of carbon capture and sequestration technology are successful, they could compete with us for customers who purchase CO 2 for use in enhanced oil recovery operations. The volatility of crude oil, NGL and natural gas prices could adversely affect our CO 2 business segment and businesses within our Natural Gas Pipelines and Products Pipelines business segments. The revenues, cash flows, profitability and future growth of some of our businesses (and the carrying values of certain of their respective assets, which include related goodwill) depend to a large degree on prevailing crude oil, NGL and natural gas prices. Prices for crude oil, NGL and natural gas are subject to large fluctuations in response to relatively minor changes in the supply of and demand for crude oil, NGL and natural gas, uncertainties within the market and a variety of other factors beyond our control.  These factors include, among other things (i) weather conditions and events such as hurricanes in the U.S.; (ii) domestic and global economic conditions; (iii) the activities of the OPEC and other countries that are significant producers of crude oil (“OPEC+”); (iv) governmental regulation; (v) political instability in crude oil producing countries; (vi) the foreign supply of and demand for crude oil and natural gas; (vii) the price of foreign imports; (viii) the proximity and availability of storage and transportation infrastructure and processing and treating facilities; and (ix) the availability and prices of alternative fuel sources.  We use hedging arrangements to partially mitigate our exposure to commodity prices, but these arrangements also are subject to inherent risks.  We are also subject, indirectly, to volatility of commodity prices, through many of our customers’ direct exposure to such volatility.  Please read “—Our use of hedging arrangements does not eliminate our exposure to commodity price risks and could result in financial losses or volatility in our income. ” In 2020, the impact of COVID-19, combined with a dispute regarding production levels among OPEC+ countries, caused crude oil prices to reach historic lows.  By March 2020, crude oil was priced at less than $25 per barrel, the lowest price since April 1999.  Producers in the U.S. and globally did not reduce crude oil production at a rate sufficient to match the dramatic decline in economic activity that accelerated in March and April 2020, resulting in an oversupply of crude oil that caused the per-barrel price to fall below zero in April 2020.  While global oil demand has improved from the low levels experienced during these months last year and OPEC+ agreed on production cuts in April 2020, there is no assurance that demand will not decline to these levels again, that the OPEC+ agreement will continue to be observed by its parties or that the agreed production cuts will be sufficient to offset continuing demand weakness.  Downward pressure on commodity prices could continue for the foreseeable future.  If prices fall substantially or remain low for a sustained period and we are not sufficiently protected through hedging arrangements, we may be unable to realize a profit from these businesses and would operate at a loss. Sharp declines in the prices of crude oil, NGL or natural gas (such as we experienced in the first half of 2020) or a prolonged unfavorable price environment, may result in a commensurate reduction in our revenues, income and cash flows from our businesses that produce, process, or purchase and sell crude oil, NGL, or natural gas, and could have a material adverse effect on the carrying value (which includes assigned goodwill) of our CO 2 business segment’s proved reserves, certain assets in certain midstream businesses within our Natural Gas Pipelines business segment, and certain assets within our Products Pipelines business segment.  For example, following the commodity price declines we experienced during the first half of 2020, we recorded a combined $1.950 billion of non-cash impairments associated with our Natural Gas Pipelines Non-Regulated and CO 2 reporting units, primarily for impairments of goodwill and assets owned in these businesses.  See Note 3 “ Impairments and Losses and Gains on Divestitures ” and Note 8 “ Goodwill ” to our consolidated financial statements for more information. In recent decades, there have been periods worldwide of both overproduction and underproduction of hydrocarbons, and periods of both increased and relaxed energy conservation efforts.  Such conditions have resulted in periods of excess supply of, and reduced demand for, crude oil on a worldwide basis and for natural gas on a domestic basis.  These periods have been followed by periods of short supply of, and increased demand for, crude oil and natural gas.  The cycles of excess or short supply of crude oil or natural gas have placed pressures on prices and resulted in dramatic price fluctuations even during relatively short periods of seasonal market demand.  These fluctuations impact the accuracy of assumptions used in our budgeting process.  For more information about our energy and commodity market risk, see Item 7A “ Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk .” Commodity transportation and storage activities involve numerous risks that may result in accidents or otherwise adversely affect our operations. There are a variety of hazards and operating risks inherent to the transportation and storage of the products we handle, such as leaks; releases; the breakdown, underperformance or failure of equipment, facilities, information systems or processes; damage to our pipelines caused by third-party construction; the compromise of information and control systems; spills at 23 terminals and hubs; spills associated with the loading and unloading of harmful substances at rail facilities; adverse sea conditions (including storms and rising sea levels) and releases or spills from our shipping vessels or vessels loaded at our marine terminals; operator error; labor disputes/work stoppages; disputes with interconnected facilities and carriers; operational disruptions or apportionment on third-party systems or refineries on which our assets depend; and catastrophic events or natural disasters such as fires, floods, explosions, earthquakes, acts of terrorists and saboteurs, cyber security breaches, and other similar events, many of which are beyond our control.  Additional risks to our vessels include capsizing, grounding and navigation errors. The occurrence of any of these risks could result in serious injury and loss of human life, significant damage to property and natural resources, environmental pollution, significant reputational damage, impairment or suspension of operations, fines or other regulatory penalties, and revocation of regulatory approvals or imposition of new requirements, any of which also could result in substantial financial losses, including lost revenue and cash flow to the extent that an incident causes an interruption of service.  For pipeline and storage assets located near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers, industrial sites and other public gathering areas, the level of damage resulting from these risks may be greater.  In addition, the consequences of any operational incident (including as a result of adverse sea conditions) at one of our marine terminals may be even more significant as a result of the complexities involved in addressing leaks and releases occurring in the ocean or along coastlines and/or the repair of marine terminals. Our operating results may be adversely affected by unfavorable economic and market conditions. As described above, COVID-19 has resulted in a downturn of economic activity on a global scale.  The slowdown resulting from the pandemic has affected numerous industries, including the crude oil and gas industry, the steel industry and in specific segments and markets in which we operate, resulting in reduced demand and increased price competition for our products and services.  We could experience similar or compounded adverse impacts as a result of other global events affecting economic conditions.  In addition, uncertain or changing economic conditions within one or more geographic regions may affect our operating results within the affected regions.  Sustained unfavorable commodity prices, volatility in commodity prices or changes in markets for a given commodity might also have a negative impact on many of our customers, which could impair their ability to meet their obligations to us.  See “—Financial distress experienced by our customers or other counterparties could have an adverse impact on us in the event they are unable to pay us for the products or services we provide or otherwise fulfill their obligations to us.” In addition, decreases in the prices of crude oil, NGL and natural gas are likely to have a negative impact on our operating results and cash flow.  See “—The volatility of crude oil, NGL and natural gas prices could adversely affect our CO 2 business segment and businesses within our Natural Gas Pipelines and Products Pipelines business segments.” If economic and market conditions (including volatility in commodity markets) globally, in the U.S. or in other key markets become more volatile or continue to deteriorate, we may experience material impacts on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Financial distress experienced by our customers or other counterparties could have an adverse impact on us in the event they are unable to pay us for the products or services we provide or otherwise fulfill their obligations to us. We are exposed to the risk of loss in the event of nonperformance by our customers or other counterparties, such as hedging counterparties, joint venture partners and suppliers.  The global economic slowdown caused by COVID-19, and the coinciding extreme drop in crude oil prices, which was exacerbated by the effects of the pandemic, significantly impacted the financial condition of many companies, particularly exploration and production companies, including some of our customers or counterparties.  Many of our counterparties finance their activities through cash flow from operations or debt or equity financing, and some of them may be highly leveraged and may not be able to access additional capital to sustain their operations in the future.  Our counterparties are subject to their own operating, market, financial and regulatory risks, and some are experiencing, or may experience in the future, severe financial problems that have had or may have a significant impact on their creditworthiness.  Crude oil, NGL and natural gas prices were all lower on average in 2020 compared to 2019.  Further deterioration in crude oil prices, or a continuation of the existing low natural gas or NGL price environment, would likely cause severe financial distress to some of our customers with direct commodity price exposure and may result in additional customer bankruptcies.  Further, the security that is permitted to be obtained from such customers may be limited, including by FERC regulation.  While certain of our customers are subsidiaries of an entity that has an investment grade credit rating, in many cases the parent entity has not guaranteed the obligations of the subsidiary and, therefore, the parent’s credit ratings may have no bearing on such customers’ ability to pay us for the services we provide or otherwise fulfill their obligations to us.  See Note 2 “ Summary of Significant Accounting Policies—Allowance for Credit Losses ” in our consolidated financial statements. 24 Furthermore, financially distressed customers might be forced to reduce or curtail their future use of our products and services, which also could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition, and cash flows. We cannot provide any assurance that such customers and key counterparties will not become financially distressed or that such financially distressed customers or counterparties will not default on their obligations to us or file for bankruptcy protection.  If one of such customers or counterparties files for bankruptcy protection, we likely would be unable to collect all, or even a significant portion of, amounts owed to us. Similarly, our contracts with such customers may be renegotiated at lower rates or terminated altogether.  Significant customer and other counterparty defaults and bankruptcy filings could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. We are subject to reputational risks and risks relating to public opinion. Our business, operations or financial condition generally may be negatively impacted as a result of negative public opinion.  Public opinion may be influenced by negative portrayals of the industry in which we operate as well as opposition to development projects.  In addition, market events specific to us could result in the deterioration of our reputation with key stakeholders.  Potential impacts of negative public opinion or reputational issues may include delays or stoppages in expansion projects, legal or regulatory actions or challenges, blockades, increased regulatory oversight, reduced support from regulatory authorities, challenges to regulatory approvals, difficulty securing financing for and cost overruns affecting expansion projects and the degradation of our business generally. Reputational risk cannot be managed in isolation from other forms of risk.  Credit, market, operational, insurance, regulatory and legal risks, among others, must all be managed effectively to safeguard our reputation.  Our reputation and public opinion could also be impacted by the actions and activities of other companies operating in the energy industry, particularly other energy infrastructure providers, over which we have no control.  In particular, our reputation could be impacted by negative publicity related to pipeline incidents or unpopular expansion projects and due to opposition to development of hydrocarbons and energy infrastructure, particularly projects involving resources that are considered to increase GHG emissions and contribute to climate change.  Negative impacts from a compromised reputation or changes in public opinion (including with respect to the production, transportation and use of hydrocarbons generally) could include revenue loss, reduction in customer base, delays in obtaining, or challenges to, regulatory approvals with respect to growth projects and decreased value of our securities and our business. The future success of our oil and gas development and production operations depends in part upon our ability to develop additional oil and gas reserves that are economically recoverable. The rate of production from oil and natural gas properties declines as reserves are depleted.  Without successful development activities, the reserves, revenues and cash flows of the oil and gas producing assets within our CO 2 business segment will decline.  We may not be able to develop or acquire additional reserves at an acceptable cost or have necessary financing for these activities in the future.  Additionally, if we do not realize production volumes greater than, or equal to, our hedged volumes, we may suffer financial losses not offset by physical transactions. The development of crude oil and gas properties involves risks that may result in a total loss of investment. The business of developing and operating oil and gas properties involves a high degree of business and financial risk that even a combination of experience, knowledge and careful evaluation may not be able to overcome.  Acquisition and development decisions generally are based on subjective judgments and assumptions that, while they may be reasonable, are by their nature speculative.  It is impossible to predict with certainty the production potential of a particular property or well.  Furthermore, the successful completion of a well does not ensure a profitable return on the investment.  A variety of geological, operational and market-related factors, including, but not limited to, unusual or unexpected geological formations, pressures, equipment failures or accidents, fires, explosions, blowouts, cratering, pollution and other environmental risks, shortages or delays in the availability of drilling rigs and the delivery of equipment, loss of circulation of drilling fluids or other conditions, may substantially delay or prevent completion of any well or otherwise prevent a property or well from being profitable.  A productive well may become uneconomic in the event water or other deleterious substances are encountered, which impair or prevent the production of oil and/or gas from the well.  In addition, production from any well may be unmarketable if it is contaminated with water or other deleterious substances. 25 Our use of hedging arrangements does not eliminate our exposure to commodity price risks and could result in financial losses or volatility in our income. We engage in hedging arrangements to reduce our direct exposure to fluctuations in the prices of crude oil, natural gas and NGL, including differentials between regional markets.  These hedging arrangements expose us to risk of financial loss in some circumstances, including when production is less than expected, when the counterparty to the hedging contract defaults on its contract obligations, or when there is a change in the expected differential between the underlying price in the hedging agreement and the actual price received.  In addition, these hedging arrangements may limit the benefit we would otherwise receive from increases in prices for crude oil, natural gas and NGL.  Furthermore, our hedging arrangements cannot hedge against any decrease in the volumes of products we handle.  See “ —Our businesses are dependent on the supply of and demand for the products that we handle.” The markets for instruments we use to hedge our commodity price exposure generally reflect then-prevailing conditions in the underlying commodity markets.  As our existing hedges expire, we will seek to replace them with new hedging arrangements.  To the extent then-existing underlying market conditions are unfavorable, new hedging arrangements available to us will reflect such unfavorable conditions, limiting our ability to hedge our exposure to unfavorable commodity prices. The accounting standards regarding hedge accounting are very complex, and even when we engage in hedging transactions (for example, to mitigate our exposure to fluctuations in commodity prices or currency exchange rates or to balance our exposure to fixed and variable interest rates) that are effective economically, these transactions may not be considered effective for accounting purposes.  Accordingly, our consolidated financial statements may reflect some volatility due to these hedges, even when there is no underlying economic impact at the dates of those consolidated financial statements.  In addition, it may not be possible for us to engage in hedging transactions that completely eliminate our exposure to commodity prices; therefore, our consolidated financial statements may reflect a gain or loss arising from an exposure to commodity prices for which we are unable to enter into a completely effective hedge.  For more information about our hedging activities, see Item 7, “ Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates—Hedging Activities ” and Note 14 “ Risk Management ” to our consolidated financial statements. A breach of information security or failure of one or more key information technology or operational (IT) systems, or those of third parties, may adversely affect our business, results of operations or business reputation. Our business is dependent upon our operational systems to process a large amount of data and complex transactions. Some of the operational systems we use are owned or operated by independent third-party vendors. The various uses of these IT systems, networks and services include, but are not limited to, controlling our pipelines and terminals with industrial control systems, collecting and storing information and data, processing transactions, and handling other processing necessary to manage our business. While we have implemented and maintain a cybersecurity program designed to protect our IT and data systems from such attacks, we can provide no assurance that our cybersecurity program will be effective.  In compliance with state and local stay-at-home orders issued in connection with COVID-19, a number of our employees have transitioned to working from home.  As a result, more of our employees are working from locations where our cybersecurity program may be less effective and IT security may be less robust.  We have experienced an increase in the number of attempts by external parties to access our networks or our company data without authorization.  The risk of a disruption or breach of our operational systems, or the compromise of the data processed in connection with our operations, through an act of terrorism or cyber sabotage event has increased as attempted attacks have advanced in sophistication and number around the world. If any of our systems are damaged, fail to function properly or otherwise become unavailable, we may incur substantial costs to repair or replace them and may experience loss or corruption of critical data and interruptions or delays in our ability to perform critical functions, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations.  A significant failure, compromise, breach or interruption in our systems, which may result from problems such as malware, computer viruses, hacking attempts or third-party error or malfeasance, could result in a disruption of our operations, customer dissatisfaction, damage to our reputation and a loss of customers or revenues.  Efforts by us and our vendors to develop, implement and maintain security measures, including malware and anti-virus software and controls, may not be successful in preventing these events from occurring, and any network and information systems-related events could require us to expend significant resources to remedy such event.  In the future, we may be required to expend additional resources to continue to enhance our information security measures and/or to investigate and remediate information security vulnerabilities. 26 Attacks, including acts of terrorism or cyber sabotage, or the threat of such attacks, may adversely affect our business or reputation. The U.S. government has issued public warnings that indicate that pipelines and other infrastructure assets might be specific targets of terrorist organizations or “cyber sabotage” events.  For example, in 2018, a cyber attack on a shared data network forced four U.S. natural gas pipeline operators to temporarily shut down computer communications with their customers.  Potential targets include our pipeline systems, terminals, processing plants or operating systems.  The occurrence of an attack could cause a substantial decrease in revenues and cash flows, increased costs to respond or other financial loss, damage to our reputation, increased regulation or litigation or inaccurate information reported from our operations.  There is no assurance that adequate cyber sabotage and terrorism insurance will be available at rates we believe are reasonable in the near future.  These developments may subject our operations to increased risks, as well as increased costs, and, depending on their ultimate magnitude, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition or could harm our business reputation. Hurricanes, earthquakes, flooding and other natural disasters, as well as subsidence and coastal erosion and climate-related physical risks, could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Some of our pipelines, terminals and other assets are located in, and our shipping vessels operate in, areas that are susceptible to hurricanes, earthquakes, flooding and other natural disasters or could be impacted by subsidence and coastal erosion.  These natural disasters and phenomena could potentially damage or destroy our assets and disrupt the supply of the products we transport.  Many climate models indicate that global warming is likely to result in rising sea levels, increased intensity of weather, and increased frequency of extreme precipitation and flooding.  These climate-related changes could result in damage to physical assets, especially operations located in low-lying areas near coasts and river banks, and facilities situated in hurricane-prone and rain-susceptible regions.  In addition, we may experience increased insurance premiums and deductibles, or a decrease in available coverage, for our assets in areas subject to severe weather.  Natural disasters and phenomena can similarly affect the facilities of our customers.  In either case, losses could exceed our insurance coverage and our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected, perhaps materially.  See Items 1 and 2 “ Business and Properties—Narrative Description of Business—Environmental Matters .” Our insurance policies do not cover all losses, costs or liabilities that we may experience, and insurance companies that currently insure companies in the energy industry may cease to do so or substantially increase premiums. Our insurance program may not cover all operational risks and costs and may not provide sufficient coverage in the event of a claim.  We do not maintain insurance coverage against all potential losses and could suffer losses for uninsurable or uninsured risks or in amounts in excess of existing insurance coverage.  Losses in excess of our insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Changes in the insurance markets subsequent to certain hurricanes and natural disasters have made it more difficult and more expensive to obtain certain types of coverage.  The occurrence of an event that is not fully covered by insurance, or failure by one or more of our insurers to honor its coverage commitments for an insured event, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.  Insurance companies may reduce the insurance capacity they are willing to offer or may demand significantly higher premiums or deductibles to cover our assets.  If significant changes in the number or financial solvency of insurance underwriters for the energy industry occur, we may be unable to obtain and maintain adequate insurance at a reasonable cost.  There is no assurance that our insurers will renew their insurance coverage on acceptable terms, if at all, or that we will be able to arrange for adequate alternative coverage in the event of non-renewal.  The unavailability of full insurance coverage to cover events in which we suffer significant losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Expanding our existing assets and constructing new assets is part of our growth strategy.  Our ability to begin and complete construction on expansion and new-build projects may be inhibited by difficulties in obtaining, or our inability to obtain, permits and rights-of-way, as well as public opposition, increases in costs of construction materials, cost overruns, inclement weather and other delays.  Should we pursue expansion of or construction of new projects through joint ventures with others, we will share control of and any benefits from those projects. We regularly undertake major construction projects to expand our existing assets and to construct new assets.  New growth projects generally will be subject to, among other things, the receipt of regulatory approvals, feasibility and cost analyses, funding availability and industry, market and demand conditions.  If we pursue joint ventures with third parties, those parties may share approval rights over major decisions, and may act in their own interests.  Their views may differ from our own or our views of the interests of the venture which could result in operational delays or impasses, which in turn could affect the 27 financial expectations of and our expected benefits from the venture.  A variety of factors outside of our control, such as difficulties in obtaining permits and rights-of-way or other regulatory approvals, have caused, and may continue to cause, delays in or cancellations of our construction projects.  Regulatory authorities may modify their permitting policies in ways that disadvantage our construction projects, such as the FERC’s consideration of changes to its Certificate Policy Statement.  Such factors can be exacerbated by public opposition to our projects.  See “— We are subject to reputational risks and risks relating to public opinion. ”  For example, changing public attitudes toward pipelines bearing fossil fuels may impede our ability to secure rights-of-way or governmental reviews and authorizations on a timely basis or at all.  Inclement weather, natural disasters and delays in performance by third-party contractors have also resulted in, and may continue to result in, increased costs or delays in construction.  Significant increases in costs of construction materials, cost overruns or delays, or our inability to obtain a required permit or right-of-way, could have a material adverse effect on our return on investment, results of operations and cash flows, and could result in project cancellations or limit our ability to pursue other growth opportunities. Substantially all of the land on which our pipelines are located is owned by third parties.  If we are unable to procure and maintain access to land owned by third parties, our revenue and operating costs, and our ability to complete construction projects, could be adversely affected. We must obtain and maintain the rights to construct and operate pipelines on other owners’ land, including private landowners, railroads, public utilities and others.  While our interstate natural gas pipelines in the U.S. have federal eminent domain authority, the availability of eminent domain authority for our other pipelines varies from state to state depending upon the type of pipeline—petroleum liquids, natural gas, CO 2 , or crude oil—and the laws of the particular state.  In any case, we must compensate landowners for the use of their property, and in eminent domain actions, such compensation may be determined by a court.  If we are unable to obtain rights-of-way on acceptable terms, our ability to complete construction projects on time, on budget, or at all, could be adversely affected.  In addition, we are subject to the possibility of increased costs under our right-of-way or rental agreements with landowners, primarily through renewals of expiring agreements and rental increases.  If we were to lose these rights, our operations could be disrupted or we could be required to relocate the affected pipelines, which could cause a substantial decrease in our revenues and cash flows and a substantial increase in our costs. The acquisition of additional businesses and assets is part of our growth strategy.  We may experience difficulties completing acquisitions or integrating new businesses and properties, and we may be unable to achieve the benefits we expect from any future acquisitions. Part of our business strategy includes acquiring additional businesses and assets.  We evaluate and pursue assets and businesses that we believe will complement or expand our operations in accordance with our growth strategy.  We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to complete acquisitions in the future or achieve the desired results from any acquisitions we do complete.  Any acquired business or assets will be subject to many of the same risks as our existing businesses and may not achieve the levels of performance that we anticipate. If we do not successfully integrate acquisitions, we may not realize anticipated operating advantages and cost savings.  Integration of acquired companies or assets involves a number of risks, including (i) the loss of key customers of the acquired business; (ii) demands on management related to the increase in our size; (iii) the diversion of management’s attention from the management of daily operations; (iv) difficulties in implementing or unanticipated costs of accounting, budgeting, reporting, internal controls and other systems; and (v) difficulties in the retention and assimilation of necessary employees. We may not be able to maintain the levels of operating efficiency that acquired companies have achieved or might achieve separately.  Successful integration of each acquisition will depend upon our ability to manage those operations and to eliminate redundant and excess costs.  Difficulties in integration may be magnified if we make multiple acquisitions over a relatively short period of time.  Because of difficulties in combining and expanding operations, we may not be able to achieve the cost savings and other size-related benefits that we hoped to achieve after these acquisitions, which would harm our financial condition and results of operations. Our business requires the retention and recruitment of a skilled workforce, and difficulties recruiting and retaining our workforce could result in a failure to implement our business plans. Our operations and management require the retention and recruitment of a skilled workforce, including engineers, technical personnel and other professionals.  We and our affiliates compete with other companies in the energy industry for this skilled workforce.  In addition, many of our current employees are retirement eligible and have significant institutional knowledge that must be transferred to other employees.  If we are unable to (i) retain current employees; (ii) successfully complete the 28 knowledge transfer; and/or (iii) recruit new employees of comparable knowledge and experience, our business could be negatively impacted.  In addition, we could experience increased costs to retain and recruit these professionals. If we are unable to retain our executive officers, our ability to execute our business strategy, including our growth strategy, may be hindered. Our success depends in part on the performance of and our ability to retain our executive officers, particularly Richard D. Kinder, our Executive Chairman and one of our founders, Steve Kean, our Chief Executive Officer, and Kim Dang, our President.  Along with the other members of our senior management, Messrs. Kinder and Kean and Ms. Dang have been responsible for developing and executing our growth strategy.  If we are not successful in retaining Mr. Kinder, Mr. Kean, Ms. Dang or our other executive officers, or replacing them, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be adversely affected.  We do not maintain key personnel insurance. Risks Related to Financing Our Business Our substantial debt could adversely affect our financial health and make us more vulnerable to adverse economic conditions. As of December 31, 2020, we had approximately $33.4 billion of consolidated debt (excluding debt fair value adjustments).  Additionally, we and substantially all of our wholly owned U.S. subsidiaries are parties to a cross guarantee agreement under which each party to the agreement unconditionally guarantees the indebtedness of each other party, which means that we are liable for the debt of each of such subsidiaries.  This level of consolidated debt and the cross guarantee agreement could have important consequences, such as (i) limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund our working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements or potential growth, or for other purposes; (ii) increasing the cost of our future borrowings; (iii) limiting our ability to use operating cash flow in other areas of our business or to pay dividends because we must dedicate a substantial portion of these funds to make payments on our debt; (iv) placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors with less debt; and (v) increasing our vulnerability to adverse economic and industry conditions. Our ability to service our consolidated debt, and our ability to meet our consolidated leverage targets, will depend upon, among other things, our future financial and operating performance, which will be affected by prevailing economic conditions and financial, business, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control.  If our consolidated cash flow is not sufficient to service our consolidated debt, and any future indebtedness that we incur, we will be forced to take actions such as reducing dividends, reducing or delaying our business activities, acquisitions, investments or capital expenditures, selling assets or seeking additional equity capital.  We may also take such actions to reduce our indebtedness if we determine that our earnings (or consolidated EBITDA, as calculated in accordance with our revolving credit facility) may not be sufficient to meet our consolidated leverage targets or to comply with consolidated leverage ratios required under certain of our debt agreements.  We may not be able to effect any of these actions on satisfactory terms or at all.  For more information about our debt, see Note 9 “ Debt ” to our consolidated financial statements. Our business, financial condition and operating results may be affected adversely by increased costs of capital or a reduction in the availability of credit. Adverse changes to the availability, terms and cost of capital, interest rates or our credit ratings (which would have a corresponding impact on the credit ratings of our subsidiaries that are party to the cross guarantee agreement) could cause our cost of doing business to increase by limiting our access to capital, including our ability to refinance maturities of existing indebtedness on similar terms, which could in turn reduce our cash flows and limit our ability to pursue acquisition or expansion opportunities.  Our credit ratings may be impacted by our leverage, liquidity, credit profile and potential transactions.  Although the ratings from credit agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities, our credit ratings will generally affect the market value of our and our subsidiaries’ debt securities and the terms available to us for future issuances of debt securities. Also, disruptions and volatility in the global financial markets may lead to an increase in interest rates or a contraction in credit availability, impacting our ability to finance our operations on favorable terms.  A significant reduction in the availability of credit could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 29 Our and our customers’ access to capital could be affected by evolving financial institutions’ policies concerning businesses linked to fossil fuels. Our and our customers’ access to capital could be affected by financial institutions’ evolving policies concerning businesses linked to fossil fuels.  Public opinion toward industries linked to fossil fuels continues to evolve.  Concerns about the potential effects of climate change have caused some to direct their attention towards sources of funding for fossil-fuel energy companies, which has resulted in certain financial institutions, funds and other sources of capital restricting or eliminating their investment in such companies.  Ultimately, this could make it more difficult for our customers to secure funding for exploration and production activities or for us to secure funding for growth projects, and consequently could both indirectly affect demand for our services and directly affect our ability to fund construction or other capital projects. Our large amount of variable rate debt makes us vulnerable to increases in interest rates. As of December 31, 2020, approximately $5.2 billion of our approximately $33.4 billion of consolidated debt (excluding debt fair value adjustments) was subject to variable interest rates, either as short-term or long-term variable-rate debt obligations, or as long-term fixed-rate debt effectively converted to variable rates through the use of interest rate swaps.  Our interest rate swaps as of December 31, 2020 include $2.5 billion of variable-to-fixed interest rate swap agreements and $900 million of fixed-to-variable interest rate swap agreements that expire during 2021.  Should interest rates increase, the amount of cash required to service variable-rate debt would increase, as would our costs to refinance maturities of existing indebtedness, and our earnings and cash flows could be adversely affected. For more information about our interest rate risk, see Item 7A “ Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk—Interest Rate Risk. ” Acquisitions and growth capital expenditures may require access to external capital.  Limitations on our access to external financing sources could impair our ability to grow. We have limited amounts of internally generated cash flows to fund acquisitions and growth capital expenditures.  If our internally generated cash flows are not sufficient to fund one or more capital projects or acquisitions, we may have to rely on external financing sources, including commercial borrowings and issuances of debt and equity securities, to fund our acquisitions and growth capital expenditures.  Limitations on our access to external financing sources, whether due to tightened capital markets, more expensive capital or otherwise, could impair our ability to execute our growth strategy. Our debt instruments may limit our financial flexibility and increase our financing costs. The instruments governing our debt contain restrictive covenants that may prevent us from engaging in certain transactions that may be beneficial to us.  Some of the agreements governing our debt generally require us to comply with various affirmative and negative covenants, including the maintenance of certain financial ratios and restrictions on (i) incurring additional debt; (ii) entering into mergers, consolidations and sales of assets; (iii) granting liens; and (iv) entering into sale-leaseback transactions.  The instruments governing any future debt may contain similar or more limiting restrictions.  Our ability to respond to changes in business and economic conditions and to obtain additional financing, if needed, may be restricted. Risks Related to Regulation The FERC or state public utility commissions, such as the CPUC, may establish pipeline tariff rates that have a negative impact on us.  In addition, the FERC, state public utility commissions or our customers could initiate proceedings or file complaints challenging the tariff rates charged by our pipelines, which could have an adverse impact on us. The profitability of our regulated pipelines is influenced by fluctuations in costs and our ability to recover any increases in our costs in the rates charged to our shippers.  To the extent that our costs increase in an amount greater than what we are permitted by the FERC or state public utility commissions to recover in our rates, or to the extent that there is a lag before we can file for and obtain rate increases, such events can have a negative impact on our operating results. Our existing rates may also be challenged by complaint.  Regulators and shippers on our pipelines have rights to challenge, and have challenged, the rates we charge under certain circumstances prescribed by applicable regulations.  Some shippers on our pipelines have filed complaints with the regulators that seek substantial refunds for alleged overcharges during the years in question and prospective reductions in the tariff rates.  Further, the FERC may continue to initiate investigations to determine whether interstate natural gas pipelines have over-collected on rates charged to shippers.  We may face challenges, similar to 30 those described in Note 18 “ Litigation and Environmental ” to our consolidated financial statements, to the rates we charge on our pipelines.  Any successful challenge to our rates could materially adversely affect our future earnings, cash flows and financial condition. New laws, policies, regulations, rulemaking and oversight, as well as changes to those currently in effect, could adversely impact our earnings, cash flows and operations. Our assets and operations are subject to regulation and oversight by federal, state and local regulatory authorities.  Legislative changes, as well as regulatory actions taken by these agencies, have the potential to adversely affect our profitability.  Additional regulatory burdens and uncertainties will be created if and to the extent that the new U.S. presidential administration succeeds in enacting more stringent energy and environmental policies.  For example, on January 27, 2021, the President issued an executive order directing, among other matters, the reevaluation of the leasing program for federally managed lands and the “pause” of new oil and natural gas leases on public lands pending completion of the review.  These and other initiatives of the new presidential administration may affect our assets and operations directly or indirectly, such as by preventing or delaying the exploration for and production of natural gas and liquids that we transport. Regulation affects almost every part of our business and extends to such matters as (i) federal, state and local taxation; (ii) rates (which include tax, reservation, commodity, surcharges, fuel and gas lost and unaccounted for), operating terms and conditions of service; (iii) the types of services we may offer to our customers; (iv) the contracts for service entered into with our customers; (v) the certification and construction of new facilities; (vi) the costs of raw materials, such as steel, which may be affected by tariffs or otherwise; (vii) the integrity, safety and security of facilities and operations; (viii) acquisitions or dispositions of assets or businesses; (ix) the acquisition, extension, disposition or abandonment of services or facilities; (x) reporting and information posting requirements; (xi) the maintenance of accounts and records; and (xii) relationships with affiliated companies involved in various aspects of the energy businesses. Should we fail to comply with any applicable statutes, rules, regulations, and orders of regulatory authorities, we could be subject to substantial penalties and fines and potential loss of government contracts.  Furthermore, new laws, regulations or policy changes sometimes arise from unexpected sources.  New laws or regulations, unexpected policy changes or interpretations of existing laws or regulations, applicable to our income, operations, assets or another aspect of our business, could have a material adverse impact on our earnings, cash flow, financial condition and results of operations.  For more information, see Items 1 and 2 “ Business and Properties—Narrative Description of Business—Industry Regulation .” Environmental, health and safety laws and regulations could expose us to significant costs and liabilities. Our operations are subject to federal, state and local laws, regulations and potential liabilities arising under or relating to the protection or preservation of the environment, natural resources and human health and safety.  Such laws and regulations affect many aspects of our past, present and future operations, and generally require us to obtain and comply with various environmental registrations, licenses, permits, inspections and other approvals.  Liability under such laws and regulations may be incurred without regard to fault under CERCLA, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Federal Clean Water Act, the Oil Pollution Act or analogous state laws as a result of the presence or release of hydrocarbons and other hazardous substances into or through the environment, and these laws may require response actions and remediation and may impose liability for natural resource and other damages.  Private parties, including the owners of properties through which our pipelines pass, also may have the right to pursue legal actions to enforce compliance as well as to seek damages for non-compliance with such laws and regulations or for personal injury or property damage.  Our insurance may not cover all environmental risks and costs and/or may not provide sufficient coverage in the event an environmental claim is made against us. Failure to comply with these laws and regulations including required permits and other approvals also may expose us to civil, criminal and administrative fines, penalties and/or interruptions in our operations that could harm our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects.  For example, if an accidental leak, release or spill of liquid petroleum products, chemicals or other hazardous substances occurs at or from our pipelines, shipping vessels or storage or other facilities, we may experience significant operational disruptions and we may have to pay a significant amount to clean up or otherwise respond to the leak, release or spill, pay government penalties, address natural resource damage, compensate for human exposure or property damage, install costly pollution control equipment or undertake a combination of these and other measures.  The resulting costs and liabilities could materially and negatively affect our earnings and cash flows. We own and/or operate numerous properties and equipment that have been used for many years in connection with our business activities.  While we believe we have utilized operating, handling and disposal practices that were consistent with industry practices at the time, hydrocarbons or other hazardous substances may have been released at or from properties and equipment owned, operated or used by us or our predecessors, or at or from properties where our or our predecessors’ wastes 31 have been taken for disposal.  In addition, many of these properties have been owned and/or operated by third parties whose management, handling and disposal of hydrocarbons or other hazardous substances were not under our control.  These properties and the hazardous substances released and wastes disposed on them may be subject to laws in the U.S. such as CERCLA, which impose joint and several liability without regard to fault or the legality of the original conduct.  Under such laws and implementing regulations, we could be required to remove or remediate previously disposed wastes or property contamination, including contamination caused by prior owners or operators.  Imposition of such liability schemes could have a material adverse impact on our operations and financial position. Further, we cannot ensure that such existing laws and regulations will not be revised or that new laws or regulations will not be adopted or become applicable to us.  For example, the Federal Clean Air Act and other similar federal and state laws are subject to periodic review and amendment, which could result in more stringent emission control requirements obligating us to make significant capital expenditures at our facilities.  There can be no assurance as to the amount or timing of future expenditures for environmental compliance or remediation, and actual future expenditures may be different from the amounts we currently anticipate.  Revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs are not fully recoverable from our customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects.  For more information, see Items 1 and 2 “ Business and Properties—Narrative Description of Business—Environmental Matters.” Increased regulatory requirements relating to the integrity of our pipelines may require us to incur significant capital and operating expense outlays to comply. We are subject to extensive laws and regulations related to pipeline integrity at the federal and state level.  There are, for example, federal guidelines issued by the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) for pipeline companies in the areas of operations, testing, education, training and communication.  The ultimate costs of compliance with the integrity management rules are difficult to predict.  The majority of compliance costs relate to pipeline integrity testing and repairs.  Technological advances in in-line inspection tools, identification of additional threats to a pipeline’s integrity and changes to the amount of pipeline determined to be located in “High Consequence Areas” can have a significant impact on integrity testing and repair costs.  We plan to continue our integrity testing programs to assess and maintain the integrity of our existing and future pipelines as required by the DOT rules.  The results of these tests could cause us to incur significant and unanticipated capital and operating expenditures for repairs or upgrades deemed necessary to ensure the continued safe and reliable operation of our pipelines. Further, additional laws and regulations that may be enacted in the future or a new interpretation of existing laws and regulations could significantly increase the amount of these expenditures.  There can be no assurance as to the amount or timing of future expenditures for pipeline integrity regulation, and actual future expenditures may be different from the amounts we currently anticipate.  Revised or additional regulations that result in increased compliance costs or additional operating restrictions, particularly if those costs are not deemed by regulators to be fully recoverable from our customers, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations and prospects. Climate-related risk and related regulation could result in significantly increased operating and capital costs for us and could reduce demand for our products and services. Various laws and regulations exist or are under development that seek to regulate the emission of GHGs such as methane and CO 2 , including the EPA programs to control GHG emissions and state actions to develop statewide or regional programs.  Existing EPA regulations require us to report GHG emissions in the U.S. from sources such as our larger natural gas compressor stations, fractionated NGL, and production of naturally occurring CO 2 (for example, from our McElmo Dome CO 2 field), even when such production is not emitted to the atmosphere.  Proposed approaches to further address GHG emissions include establishing GHG “cap and trade” programs, increased efficiency standards, participation in international climate agreements, issuance of executive orders by the U.S. presidential administration and incentives or mandates for pollution reduction, use of renewable energy sources, or use of alternative fuels with lower carbon content.  For more information about climate change regulation, see Items 1 and 2 “ Business and Properties—Narrative Description of Business—Environmental Matters—Climate Change.” Adoption of any such laws or regulations could increase our costs to operate and maintain our facilities and could require us to install new emission controls on our facilities, acquire allowances for our GHG emissions, pay taxes related to our GHG emissions and administer and manage a GHG emissions program, and such increased costs could be significant.  Recovery of such increased costs from our customers is uncertain in all cases and may depend on events beyond our control, including the outcome of future rate proceedings before the FERC.  Such laws or regulations could also lead to reduced demand for 32 hydrocarbon products that are deemed to contribute to GHGs, or restrictions on their use, which in turn could adversely affect demand for our products and services. Finally, many climate models indicate that global warming is likely to result in rising sea levels and increased frequency and severity of weather events, which may lead to higher insurance costs, or a decrease in available coverage, for our assets in areas subject to severe weather.  These climate-related changes could result in damage to our physical assets, especially operations located in low-lying areas near coasts and river banks, and facilities situated in hurricane-prone and rain-susceptible regions. Any of the foregoing could have adverse effects on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Increased regulation of exploration and production activities, including activity on public lands and hydraulic fracturing, could result in reductions or delays in drilling and completing new oil and natural gas wells, as well as reductions in production from existing wells, which could adversely impact the volumes of natural gas transported on our natural gas pipelines and our own oil and gas development and production activities. We gather, process or transport crude oil, natural gas or NGL from several areas, including lands that are federally managed.  Policy and regulatory initiatives of the new presidential administration or legislation by Congress may decrease access to federally managed lands and increase the regulatory burdens associated with using these lands to produce crude oil or natural gas.  For example, on January 20, 2021, the Secretary of the Department of the Interior issued an order temporarily restricting the authorization of new leases or permits to drill without the approval of a senior Department official.  On January 27, 2021, the President issued an executive order directing, among other matters, the reevaluation of the leasing program for federally managed lands and the “pause” of new oil and natural gas leases on public lands pending completion of the review. The use of hydraulic fracturing is prevalent in areas where we have operations.  Oil and gas development and production activities are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations relating to environmental quality and pollution control.  The oil and gas industry is increasingly relying on supplies of hydrocarbons from unconventional sources, such as shale, tight sands and coal bed methane.  The extraction of hydrocarbons from these sources frequently requires hydraulic fracturing.  Hydraulic fracturing involves the pressurized injection of water, sand, and chemicals into the geologic formation to stimulate gas production and is a commonly used stimulation process employed by oil and gas exploration and production operators in the completion of certain oil and gas wells.  There have been initiatives at the federal and state levels to regulate or otherwise restrict the use of hydraulic fracturing.  Adoption of legislation or regulations placing restrictions on hydraulic fracturing activities could impose operational delays, increased operating costs and additional regulatory burdens on exploration and production operators, which could reduce their production of crude oil, natural gas or NGL and, in turn, adversely affect our revenues, cash flows and results of operations by decreasing the volumes of these commodities that we handle. In addition, many states are promulgating stricter requirements related not only to well development but also to compressor stations and other facilities in the oil and gas industry sector.  These laws and regulations increase the costs of these activities and may prevent or delay the commencement or continuance of a given operation.  Specifically, these activities are subject to laws and regulations regarding the acquisition of permits before drilling, restrictions on drilling activities and location, emissions into the environment, water discharges, transportation of hazardous materials, and storage and disposition of wastes.  In addition, legislation has been enacted that requires well and facility sites to be abandoned and reclaimed to the satisfaction of state authorities.  These laws and regulations may adversely affect our oil and gas development and production activities. The Jones Act includes restrictions on ownership by non-U.S. citizens of our U.S. point to point maritime shipping vessels, and failure to comply with the Jones Act, or changes to or a repeal of the Jones Act, could limit our ability to operate our vessels in the U.S. coastwise trade, result in the forfeiture of our vessels or otherwise adversely impact our earnings, cash flows and operations. We are subject to the Jones Act, which generally restricts U.S. point-to-point maritime shipping to vessels operating under the U.S. flag, built in the U.S., owned and operated by U.S.-organized companies that are controlled and at least 75% owned by U.S. citizens and crewed by predominately U.S. citizens.  Our business would be adversely affected if we fail to comply with the Jones Act provisions on coastwise trade.  If we do not comply with any of these requirements, we would be prohibited from operating our vessels in the U.S. coastwise trade and, under certain circumstances, we could be deemed to have undertaken an unapproved transfer to non-U.S. citizens that could result in severe penalties, including permanent loss of U.S. coastwise trading rights for our vessels, fines or forfeiture of vessels.  Our business could be adversely affected if the Jones Act were to be modified or repealed so as to permit foreign competition that is not subject to the same U.S. government imposed burdens. 33 Risks Related to Ownership of Our Capital Stock The guidance we provide for our anticipated dividends is based on estimates.  Circumstances may arise that lead to conflicts between using funds to pay anticipated dividends or to invest in our business. We disclose in this report and elsewhere the expected cash dividends on our common stock.  These reflect our current judgment, but as with any estimate, they may be affected by inaccurate assumptions and other risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control.  See “ Information Regarding Forward-Looking Statements ” at the beginning of this report.  If our board of directors elects to pay dividends at the anticipated level and that action would leave us with insufficient cash to take timely advantage of growth opportunities (including through acquisitions), to meet any large unanticipated liquidity requirements, to fund our operations, to maintain our leverage metrics or otherwise to address properly our business prospects, our business could be harmed. Conversely, a decision to address such needs might lead to the payment of dividends below the anticipated levels.  As events present themselves or become reasonably foreseeable, our board of directors, which determines our business strategy and our dividends, may decide to address those matters by reducing our anticipated dividends.  Alternatively, because nothing in our governing documents or credit agreements prohibits us from borrowing to pay dividends, we could choose to incur debt to enable us to pay our anticipated dividends.  This would add to our substantial debt discussed above under “ —Risks Related to Financing Our Business—Our substantial debt could adversely affect our financial health and make us more vulnerable to adverse economic conditions .” Our certificate of incorporation restricts the ownership of our common stock by non-U.S. citizens within the meaning of the Jones Act.  These restrictions may affect the liquidity of our common stock and may result in non-U.S. citizens being required to sell their shares at a loss. The Jones Act requires, among other things, that at least 75% of our common stock be owned at all times by U.S. citizens, as defined under the Jones Act, in order for us to own and operate vessels in the U.S. coastwise trade.  As a safeguard to help us maintain our status as a U.S. citizen, our certificate of incorporation provides that, if the number of shares of our common stock owned by non-U.S. citizens exceeds 22%, we have the ability to redeem shares owned by non-U.S. citizens to reduce the percentage of shares owned by non-U.S. citizens to 22%.  These redemption provisions may adversely impact the marketability of our common stock, particularly in markets outside of the U.S.  Further, those stockholders would not have control over the timing of such redemption, and may be subject to redemption at a time when the market price or timing of the redemption is disadvantageous.  In addition, the redemption provisions might have the effect of impeding or discouraging a merger, tender offer or proxy contest by a non-U.S. citizen, even if it were favorable to the interests of some or all of our stockholders.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto.  We prepared our consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP.  Additional sections in this report which should be helpful to the reading of our discussion and analysis include the following: (i) a description of our business strategy found in Items 1 and 2 “ Business and Properties—Narrative Description of Business—Business Strategy; ” (ii) a description of developments during 2020, found in Items 1 and 2 “ Business and Properties—General Development of Business—Recent Developments; ” (iii) a description of risk factors affecting us and our business, found in Item 1A “ Risk Factors; ” and (iv) a discussion of forward-looking statements, found in “ Information Regarding Forward-Looking Statements ” at the beginning of this report. 35 A comparative discussion of our 2019 to 2018 operating results can be found in Item 7 “ Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Results of Operations ” included in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2019 filed with the SEC on February 7, 2020. General As an energy infrastructure owner and operator in multiple facets of the various U.S. energy industries and markets, we examine a number of variables and factors on a routine basis to evaluate our current performance and our prospects for the future.  We have four business segments as further described below. Natural Gas Pipelines This segment owns and operates (i) major interstate and intrastate natural gas pipeline and storage systems; (ii) natural gas gathering systems and processing and treating facilities; (iii) NGL fractionation facilities and transportation systems; and (iv) LNG regasification, liquefaction and storage facilities. With respect to our interstate natural gas pipelines, related storage facilities and LNG terminals, the revenues from these assets are primarily received under long-term fixed contracts.  To the extent practicable and economically feasible in light of our strategic plans and other factors, we generally attempt to mitigate risk of reduced volumes and prices by negotiating contracts with longer terms, with higher per-unit pricing and for a greater percentage of our available capacity.  These long-term contracts are typically structured with a fixed fee reserving the right to transport or store natural gas and specify that we receive the majority of our fee for making the capacity available, whether or not the customer actually chooses to utilize the capacity.  Similarly, our Texas Intrastate natural gas pipeline operations, currently derives approximately 83% of its sales and transport margins from long-term transport and sales contracts.  As contracts expire, we have additional exposure to the longer term trends in supply and demand for natural gas.  As of December 31, 2020, the remaining weighted average contract life of our natural gas transportation contracts held by assets we own and have equity interests in (including intrastate pipelines’ sales portfolio) was approximately six years. Our LNG regasification and liquefaction and associated storage contracts are subscribed under long-term agreements with a weighted average remaining contract life of approximately 13 years. Our midstream assets provide natural gas gathering and processing services.  These assets are mostly fee-based and the revenues and earnings we realize from gathering natural gas, processing natural gas in order to remove NGL from the natural gas stream, and fractionating NGL into its base components, are affected by the volumes of natural gas made available to our systems.  Such volumes are impacted by producer rig count and drilling activity.  In addition to fee-based arrangements, some of which may include minimum volume commitments, we also provide some services based on percent-of-proceeds, percent-of-index and keep-whole contracts.  Our service contracts may rely solely on a single type of arrangement, but more often they combine elements of two or more of the above, which helps us and our counterparties manage the extent to which each shares in the potential risks and benefits of changing commodity prices. Products Pipelines This segment owns and operates refined petroleum products, crude oil and condensate pipelines that primarily deliver, among other products, gasoline, diesel and jet fuel, crude oil and condensate to various markets.  This segment also owns and/or operates associated product terminals and petroleum pipeline transmix facilities. The profitability of our refined petroleum products pipeline transportation business generally is driven by the volume of refined petroleum products that we transport and the prices we receive for our services. We also have 49 liquids terminals in this business segment that store fuels and offer blending services for ethanol and biodiesel.  The transportation and storage volume levels are primarily driven by the demand for the refined petroleum products being shipped or stored.  Demand for refined petroleum products tends to track in large measure demographic and economic growth, and, with the exception of periods of time with very high product prices or recessionary conditions, demand tends to be relatively stable.  Because of that, we seek to own refined petroleum products pipelines and terminals located in, or that transport to, stable or growing markets and population centers.  The prices for shipping are generally based on regulated tariffs that are adjusted annually based on changes in the U.S. Producer Price Index and a FERC index rate. Our crude, condensate and refined petroleum products transportation services are primarily provided pursuant to (i) either FERC or state tariffs and (ii) long-term contracts that normally contain minimum volume commitments.  As a result of these contracts, our settlement volumes are generally not sensitive to changing market conditions in the shorter term; however, the revenues and earnings we realize from our pipelines and terminals are affected by the volumes of crude oil, refined petroleum 36 products and condensate available to our pipeline systems, which are impacted by the level of oil and gas drilling activity and product demand in the respective regions that we serve.  Our petroleum condensate processing facility splits condensate into its various components, such as light and heavy naphtha, under a long-term fee-based agreement with a major integrated oil company. Terminals This segment owns and operates (i) liquids and bulk terminal facilities located throughout the U.S. that store and handle various commodities including gasoline, diesel fuel, chemicals, ethanol, metals and petroleum coke; and (ii) Jones Act-qualified tankers. The factors impacting our Terminals business segment generally differ between liquid and bulk terminals, and in the case of a bulk terminal, the type of product being handled or stored.  Our liquids terminals business generally has long-term contracts that require the customer to pay regardless of whether they use the capacity.  Thus, similar to our natural gas pipelines business, our liquids terminals business is less sensitive to short-term changes in supply and demand.  Therefore, the extent to which changes in these variables affect our terminals business in the near term is a function of the length of the underlying service contracts (which on average is approximately three years), the extent to which revenues under the contracts are a function of the amount of product stored or transported, and the extent to which such contracts expire during any given period of time. As with our refined petroleum products pipelines transportation business, the revenues from our bulk terminals business are generally driven by the volumes we handle and/or store, as well as the prices we receive for our services, which in turn are driven by the demand for the products being shipped or stored.  While we handle and store a large variety of products in our bulk terminals, the primary products are petroleum coke, metals and ores. In addition, the majority of our contracts for this business contain minimum volume guarantees and/or service exclusivity arrangements under which customers are required to utilize our terminals for all or a specified percentage of their handling and storage needs.  The profitability of our minimum volume contracts is generally unaffected by short-term variation in economic conditions; however, to the extent we expect volumes above the minimum and/or have contracts which are volume-based, we can be sensitive to changing market conditions.  To the extent practicable and economically feasible in light of our strategic plans and other factors, we generally attempt to mitigate the risk of reduced volumes and pricing by negotiating contracts with longer terms, with higher per-unit pricing and for a greater percentage of our available capacity.  In addition, weather-related events, including hurricanes, may impact our facilities and access to them and, thus, the profitability of certain terminals for limited periods of time or, in relatively rare cases of severe damage to facilities, for longer periods. In addition to liquid and bulk terminals, we also own Jones Act-qualified tankers in our Terminals business segment.  As of December 31, 2020, we have sixteen Jones Act-qualified tankers that operate in the marine transportation of crude oil, condensate and refined products in the U.S. and are primarily operating pursuant to multi-year fixed price charters with major integrated oil companies, major refiners and the U.S. Military Sealift Command. CO 2 This segment (i) manages the production, transportation and marketing of CO 2 to oil fields that use CO 2 as a flooding medium to increase recovery and production of crude oil from mature oil fields; (ii) owns interests in and/or operates oil fields and gasoline processing plants in West Texas; and (iii) owns and operates a crude oil pipeline system in West Texas. The CO 2 source and transportation business primarily has third-party contracts with minimum volume requirements, which as of December 31, 2020, had a remaining average contract life of approximately eight years.  CO 2 sales contracts vary from customer to customer and have evolved over time as supply and demand conditions have changed.  Our recent contracts have generally provided for a delivered price tied to the price of crude oil, but with a floor price.  On a volume-weighted basis, for third-party contracts making deliveries in 2020, and utilizing the average oil price per barrel contained in our 2021 budget, approximately 100% of our revenue is based on a fixed fee or floor price.  Our success in this portion of the CO 2 business segment can be impacted by the demand for CO 2 .  In the CO 2 business segment’s oil and gas producing activities, we monitor the amount of capital we expend in relation to the amount of production that we expect to add.  The revenues we receive from our crude oil and NGL sales are affected by the prices we realize from the sale of these products.  Over the long-term, we will tend to receive prices that are dictated by the demand and overall market price for these products.  In the shorter term, however, market prices are likely not indicative of the revenues we will receive due to our risk management, or hedging, program, in which the prices to be realized for certain of our future sales quantities are fixed, capped or bracketed through the use of financial derivative contracts, particularly for crude oil.  The realized weighted average crude oil price per barrel, with the hedges allocated to oil, was $53.78 per barrel in 2020 and $49.49 per barrel in 2019.  Had we not used energy derivative 37 contracts to transfer commodity price risk, our crude oil sales prices would have averaged $38.32 per barrel in 2020 and $55.12 per barrel in 2019. Also, see Note 15 “Revenue Recognition” to our consolidated financial statements for more information about the types of contracts and revenues recognized for each of our segments. Sale of U.S. Portion of Cochin Pipeline System and KML On December 16, 2019, we closed on two cross-conditional transactions resulting in the sale of the U.S. portion of the Cochin Pipeline system and all the outstanding equity of KML, including our 70% interest, to Pembina Pipeline Corporation (Pembina) (together, the “KML and U.S. Cochin Sale”).  We received approximately 25 million shares of Pembina common equity for our interest in KML.  On January 9, 2020, we sold our shares of Pembina and received proceeds of approximately $907 million ($764 million after tax) which were used to repay maturing debt.  The assets sold were part of our Natural Gas Pipelines and Terminals business segments. COVID-19 The COVID-19 pandemic-related reduction in energy demand and the dramatic decline in commodity prices that began to impact us in the first quarter of 2020 continued to cause disruptions and volatility.  Sharp declines in crude oil and natural gas production along with reduced demand for refined products due to the economic shutdown in the wake of the pandemic affected our business and continues to do so.  While we have seen some meaningful recovery during the second half of the year in demand for refined products that we move through our terminals, significant uncertainty remains regarding the duration and extent of the impact of the pandemic on the energy industry, including demand and prices for the products handled by our pipelines, terminals, shipping vessels and other facilities, although we expect to see further recovery as vaccines are distributed and more normal societal activity resumes. The events as described above resulted in decreases of current and estimated long-term crude oil and NGL sale prices and volumes we expect to realize and in significant reductions to the market capitalization of many midstream and oil and gas producing companies.  These events triggered us to review the carrying value of our long-lived assets and recoverability of goodwill for interim periods in addition to our annual testing.  Our evaluations resulted in the recognition during the first six months of 2020 of a $350 million impairment for long-lived assets in our CO 2 business segment and goodwill impairments of $1,000 million and $600 million to our Natural Gas Pipelines Non-Regulated and CO 2 reporting units, respectively.  For a further discussion of these impairments and our risk for future impairments, see Note 3, “ Impairments and Losses and Gains on Divestitures .” We have placed a priority on protecting our employees during this pandemic while continuing to provide essential services to our customers.  We continue to follow the Centers for Disease Control guidelines for those employees that perform essential tasks in our operations and have taken a cautious enterprise-wide approach with a phased return to workplace process for our employees who are currently working remotely.  During 2020, our incremental employee safety costs associated with COVID-19 mitigation were approximately $15 million, primarily for personal protective equipment, enhanced cleaning protocols, temperature screening and other measures we adopted to protect our employees.  We continue to operate our assets safely and efficiently during this challenging period. 2021 Dividends and Discretionary Capital We expect to declare dividends of $1.08 per share for 2021, a 3% increase from the 2020 declared dividends of $1.05 per share.  We also expect to invest $0.8 billion in expansion projects and contributions to joint ventures during 2021. The expectations for 2021 discussed above involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions, and are not guarantees of performance.  Many of the factors that will determine these expectations are beyond our ability to control or predict, and because of these uncertainties, it is advisable not to put undue reliance on any forward-looking statement.  Please read our Item 1A “ Risk Factors ” below and “ Information Regarding Forward-Looking Statements ” at the beginning of this report for more information.  Furthermore, we plan to provide updates to these 2021 expectations when we believe previously disclosed expectations no longer have a reasonable basis. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Accounting standards require information in financial statements about the risks and uncertainties inherent in significant estimates, and the application of GAAP involves the exercise of varying degrees of judgment.  Certain amounts included in or 38 affecting our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures must be estimated, requiring us to make certain assumptions with respect to values or conditions that cannot be known with certainty at the time our financial statements are prepared.  These estimates and assumptions affect the amounts we report for our assets and liabilities, our revenues and expenses during the reporting period, and our disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of our financial statements.  We routinely evaluate these estimates, utilizing historical experience, consultation with experts and other methods we consider reasonable in the particular circumstances.  Nevertheless, actual results may differ significantly from our estimates, and any effects on our business, financial position or results of operations resulting from revisions to these estimates are recorded in the period in which the facts that give rise to the revision become known. In preparing our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures, examples of certain areas that require more judgment relative to others include our use of estimates in determining:  (i) revenue recognition; (ii) income taxes; (iii) the economic useful lives of our assets and related depletion rates; (iv) the fair values used in (a) calculations of possible asset and equity investment impairment charges, and (b) calculation for the annual goodwill impairment test (or interim tests if triggered); (v) reserves for environmental claims, legal fees, transportation rate cases and other litigation liabilities; (vi) provisions for credit losses; (vii) computation of the gain or loss, if any, on assets sold in whole or in part; and (viii) exposures under contractual indemnifications. For a summary of our significant accounting policies, see Note 2 “Summary of Significant Accounting Policies” to our consolidated financial statements.  We believe that certain accounting policies are of more significance in our consolidated financial statement preparation process than others, which policies are discussed as follows. Environmental Matters With respect to our environmental exposure, we utilize both internal staff and external experts to assist us in identifying environmental issues and in estimating the costs and timing of remediation efforts.  We expense or capitalize, as appropriate, environmental expenditures that relate to current operations, and we record environmental liabilities when environmental assessments and/or remedial efforts are probable and we can reasonably estimate the costs.  Generally, we do not discount environmental liabilities to a net present value, and we recognize receivables for anticipated associated insurance recoveries when such recoveries are deemed to be probable.  We record at fair value, where appropriate, environmental liabilities assumed in a business combination. Our accrual of environmental liabilities often coincides either with our completion of a feasibility study or our commitment to a formal plan of action, but generally, we recognize and/or adjust our probable environmental liabilities, if necessary or appropriate, following quarterly reviews of potential environmental issues and claims that could impact our assets or operations.  In recording and adjusting environmental liabilities, we consider the effect of environmental compliance, pending legal actions against us, and potential third party liability claims.  For more information on environmental matters, see Part I, Items 1 and 2 “ Business and Properties—Narrative Description of Business—Environmental Matters. ”  For more information on our environmental disclosures, see Note 18 “Litigation and Environmental” to our consolidated financial statements. Legal and Regulatory Matters Many of our operations are regulated by various U.S. regulatory bodies, and we are subject to legal and regulatory matters as a result of our business operations and transactions.  We utilize both internal and external counsel in evaluating our potential exposure to adverse outcomes from orders, judgments or settlements.  In general, we expense legal costs as incurred.  When we identify contingent liabilities that are probable, we identify a range of possible costs expected to be required to resolve the matter.  Generally, if no amount within this range is a better estimate than any other amount, we record a liability equal to the low end of the range.  Any such liability recorded is revised as better information becomes available.  Accordingly, to the extent that actual outcomes differ from our estimates, or additional facts and circumstances cause us to revise our estimates, our earnings will be affected.  For more information on legal proceedings, see Note 18 “Litigation and Environmental” to our consolidated financial statements. Long-lived Asset and Equity Investment Impairments We evaluate long-lived assets including leases and investments for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that our carrying amount of an asset or investment may not be recoverable.  We recognize impairment losses when estimated future cash flows expected to result from our use of the asset and its eventual disposition is less than its carrying amount.  Because the impairment test for long-lived assets held in use is based on undiscounted cash flows, there may be instances where an asset or asset group is not considered impaired, even when its fair value may be less than its carrying value, because the asset or asset group is recoverable based on the cash flows to be generated over the estimated life of the asset 39 or asset group.  If the carrying value of a long-lived asset or asset group is in excess of undiscounted cash flows, we typically use discounted cash flow analyses to determine if an impairment is required. For more information on our long-lived asset impairments and significant estimates and assumptions used in our evaluations, see Note 3 “Impairments and Losses and Gains on Divestitures.” Intangible Assets Intangible assets are those assets which provide future economic benefit but have no physical substance.  Identifiable intangible assets having indefinite useful economic lives, including goodwill, are not subject to regular periodic amortization, and such assets are not to be amortized until their lives are determined to be finite.  Instead, the carrying amount of a recognized intangible asset with an indefinite useful life must be tested for impairment annually or on an interim basis if events or circumstances indicate that the fair value of the asset has decreased below its carrying value.  We evaluate goodwill for impairment on May 31 of each year.  At year end and during other interim periods we evaluate our reporting units for events and changes that could indicate that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit could be less than its carrying amount. Excluding goodwill, our other intangible assets include customer contracts and relationships and agreements.  These intangible assets have definite lives, are being amortized in a systematic and rational manner over their estimated useful lives, and are reported separately as “Other intangibles, net” in our accompanying consolidated balance sheets. For more information on our 2020 goodwill impairment evaluations and amortizable intangibles, see Note 3 “Impairments and Losses and Gains on Divestitures” and Note 8 “Goodwill” to our consolidated financial statements. Hedging Activities We engage in a hedging program that utilizes derivative contracts to mitigate (offset) our exposure to fluctuations in energy commodity prices, foreign currency exposure on Euro-denominated debt, and until our recent divestitures of our Canadian assets, net investments in foreign operations, and to balance our exposure to fixed and variable interest rates, and we believe that these derivative contracts are, or were in respect to our Canadian operations, generally effective in realizing these objectives.  According to the provisions of GAAP, to be considered effective, changes in the value of a derivative contract or its resulting cash flows must substantially offset changes in the value or cash flows of the hedged risk, and any component excluded from the computation of the effectiveness of the derivative contract must be recognized in earnings over the life of the hedging instrument by using a systematic and rational method. All of our derivative contracts are recorded at estimated fair value.  We utilize published prices, broker quotes, and estimates of market prices to estimate the fair value of these contracts; however, actual amounts could vary materially from estimated fair values as a result of changes in market prices. In addition, changes in the methods used to determine the fair value of these contracts could have a material effect on our results of operations. We do not anticipate future changes in the methods used to determine the fair value of these derivative contracts. For more information on our hedging activities, see Note 14 “Risk Management” to our consolidated financial statements. Employee Benefit Plans We reflect an asset or liability for our pension and other postretirement benefit (OPEB) plans based on their overfunded or underfunded status.  As of December 31, 2020, our pension plans were underfunded by $645 million, and our OPEB plans were overfunded by $62 million.  Our pension and OPEB obligations and net benefit costs are primarily based on actuarial calculations.  We use various assumptions in performing these calculations, including those related to the return that we expect to earn on our plan assets, the rate at which we expect the compensation of our employees to increase over the plan term, the estimated cost of health care when benefits are provided under our plan and other factors.  A significant assumption we utilize is the discount rate used in calculating our benefit obligations.  We utilize a full yield curve approach in the estimation of the service and interest cost components of net periodic benefit cost (credit) for our pension and OPEB plans which applies the specific spot rates along the yield curve used in the determination of the benefit obligation to their underlying projected cash flows.  The selection of these assumptions is further discussed in Note 10 “Share-based Compensation and Employee Benefits ” to our consolidated financial statements. Actual results may differ from the assumptions included in these calculations, and as a result, our estimates associated with our pension and OPEB can be, and have been revised in subsequent periods.  The income statement impact of the changes in the assumptions on our related benefit obligations are deferred and amortized into income over either the period of expected 40 future service of active participants, or over the expected future lives of inactive plan participants.  As of December 31, 2020, we had deferred net losses of approximately $521 million in pre-tax accumulated other comprehensive loss related to our pension and OPEB plans. The following sensitivity analysis shows the estimated impact of a 1% change in the primary assumptions used in our actuarial calculations associated with our pension and OPEB plans for the year ended December 31, 2020: (a) Includes amounts deferred as either accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) or as a regulatory asset or liability for certain of our regulated operations. Income Taxes Income tax expense is recorded based on an estimate of the effective tax rate in effect or to be in effect during the relevant periods. Changes in tax legislation are included in the relevant computations in the period in which such changes are enacted. We do business in a number of states with differing laws concerning how income subject to each state’s tax structure is measured and at what effective rate such income is taxed. Therefore, we must make estimates of how our income will be apportioned among the various states in order to arrive at an overall effective tax rate. Changes in our effective rate, including any effect on previously recorded deferred taxes, are recorded in the period in which the need for such change is identified. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are recognized for temporary differences between the basis of assets and liabilities for financial reporting and tax purposes. Deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance for the amount that is more likely than not to not be realized. While we have considered estimated future taxable income and prudent and feasible tax planning strategies in determining the amount of our valuation allowance, any change in the amount that we expect to ultimately realize will be included in income in the period in which such a determination is reached. In determining the deferred income tax asset and liability balances attributable to our investments, we apply an accounting policy that looks through our investments. The application of this policy resulted in no deferred income taxes being provided on the difference between the book and tax basis on the non-tax-deductible goodwill portion of our investments, including KMI’s investment in its wholly-owned subsidiary, KMP. Results of Operations Overview As described in further detail below, our management evaluates our performance primarily using the GAAP financial measures of Segment EBDA (as presented in Note 16, “ Reportable Segments ”), net income and net income attributable to Kinder Morgan, Inc., along with the non-GAAP financial measures of Adjusted Earnings and DCF, both in the aggregate and per share for each, Adjusted Segment EBDA, Adjusted EBITDA, Net Debt and Net Debt to Adjusted EBITDA. 41 GAAP Financial Measures The Consolidated Earnings Results for the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019 present Segment EBDA, net income and net income attributable to Kinder Morgan, Inc. which are prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP.  Segment EBDA is a useful measure of our operating performance because it measures the operating results of our segments before DD&A and certain expenses that are generally not controllable by our business segment operating managers, such as general and administrative expenses and corporate charges, interest expense, net, and income taxes.  Our general and administrative expenses and corporate charges include such items as unallocated employee benefits, insurance, rentals, unallocated litigation and environmental expenses, and shared corporate services including accounting, information technology, human resources and legal services. Non-GAAP Financial Measures Our non-GAAP financial measures described below should not be considered alternatives to GAAP net income or other GAAP measures and have important limitations as analytical tools.  Our computations of these non-GAAP financial measures may differ from similarly titled measures used by others.  You should not consider these non-GAAP financial measures in isolation or as substitutes for an analysis of our results as reported under GAAP.  Management compensates for the limitations of these non-GAAP financial measures by reviewing our comparable GAAP measures, understanding the differences between the measures and taking this information into account in its analysis and its decision making processes. Certain Items Certain Items, as adjustments used to calculate our non-GAAP financial measures, are items that are required by GAAP to be reflected in net income, but typically either (i) do not have a cash impact (for example, asset impairments), or (ii) by their nature are separately identifiable from our normal business operations and in our view are likely to occur only sporadically (for example, certain legal settlements, enactment of new tax legislation and casualty losses).  We also include adjustments related to joint ventures (see “Amounts from Joint Ventures” below and the tables included in “—Consolidated Earnings Results (GAAP)—Certain Items Affecting Consolidated Earnings Results,” “—Non-GAAP Financial Measures—Reconciliation of Net Income (GAAP) to Adjusted EBITDA” and “—Non-GAAP Financial Measures—Supplemental Information” below).  In addition, Certain Items are described in more detail in the footnotes to tables included in “—Segment Earnings Results” and “—DD&A, General and Administrative and Corporate Charges, Interest, net and Noncontrolling Interests” below. Adjusted Earnings Adjusted Earnings is calculated by adjusting net income attributable to Kinder Morgan, Inc. for Certain Items.  Adjusted Earnings is used by us and certain external users of our financial statements to assess the earnings of our business excluding Certain Items as another reflection of our ability to generate earnings.  We believe the GAAP measure most directly comparable to Adjusted Earnings is net income attributable to Kinder Morgan, Inc.  Adjusted Earnings per share uses Adjusted Earnings and applies the same two-class method used in arriving at basic earnings per common share.  See “—Non-GAAP Financial Measures—Reconciliation of Net Income Attributable to Kinder Morgan, Inc. (GAAP) to Adjusted Earnings to DCF” below. DCF DCF is calculated by adjusting net income attributable to Kinder Morgan, Inc. for Certain Items (Adjusted Earnings), and further by DD&A and amortization of excess cost of equity investments, income tax expense, cash taxes, sustaining capital expenditures and other items.  We also include amounts from joint ventures for income taxes, DD&A and sustaining capital expenditures (see “Amounts from Joint Ventures” below).  DCF is a significant performance measure useful to management and external users of our financial statements in evaluating our performance and in measuring and estimating the ability of our assets to generate cash earnings after servicing our debt, paying cash taxes and expending sustaining capital, that could be used for discretionary purposes such as common stock dividends, stock repurchases, retirement of debt, or expansion capital expenditures.  DCF should not be used as an alternative to net cash provided by operating activities computed under GAAP.  We believe the GAAP measure most directly comparable to DCF is net income attributable to Kinder Morgan, Inc.  DCF per common share is DCF divided by average outstanding common shares, including restricted stock awards that participate in common share dividends.  See “—Non-GAAP Financial Measures—Reconciliation of Net Income Attributable to Kinder Morgan, Inc. (GAAP) to Adjusted Earnings to DCF” and “—Adjusted Segment EBDA to Adjusted EBITDA to DCF” below. 42 Adjusted Segment EBDA Adjusted Segment EBDA is calculated by adjusting Segment EBDA for Certain Items attributable to the segment.  Adjusted Segment EBDA is used by management in its analysis of segment performance and management of our business.  We believe Adjusted Segment EBDA is a useful performance metric because it provides management and external users of our financial statements additional insight into the ability of our segments to generate cash earnings on an ongoing basis.  We believe it is useful to investors because it is a measure that management uses to allocate resources to our segments and assess each segment’s performance.  We believe the GAAP measure most directly comparable to Adjusted Segment EBDA is Segment EBDA.  See “—Consolidated Earnings Results (GAAP)—Certain Items Affecting Consolidated Earnings Results” for a reconciliation of Segment EBDA to Adjusted Segment EBDA by business segment. Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted EBITDA is calculated by adjusting EBITDA for Certain Items.  We also include amounts from joint ventures for income taxes and DD&A (see “Amounts from Joint Ventures” below).  Adjusted EBITDA is used by management and external users, in conjunction with our Net Debt (as described further below), to evaluate certain leverage metrics.  Therefore, we believe Adjusted EBITDA is useful to investors.  We believe the GAAP measure most directly comparable to Adjusted EBITDA is net income.  See “—Adjusted Segment EBDA to Adjusted EBITDA to DCF” and “—Non-GAAP Financial Measures—Reconciliation of Net Income (GAAP) to Adjusted EBITDA” below . Amounts from Joint Ventures Certain Items, DCF and Adjusted EBITDA reflect amounts from unconsolidated joint ventures and consolidated joint ventures utilizing the same recognition and measurement methods used to record “Earnings from equity investments” and “Noncontrolling interests,” respectively.  The calculations of DCF and Adjusted EBITDA related to our unconsolidated and consolidated joint ventures include the same adjustments (DD&A and income tax expense, and for DCF only, also cash taxes and sustaining capital expenditures) with respect to the joint ventures as those included in the calculations of DCF and Adjusted EBITDA for our wholly-owned consolidated subsidiaries.  (See “—Non-GAAP Financial Measures—Supplemental Information” below.)  Although these amounts related to our unconsolidated joint ventures are included in the calculations of DCF and Adjusted EBITDA, such inclusion should not be understood to imply that we have control over the operations and resulting revenues, expenses or cash flows of such unconsolidated joint ventures.  DCF and Adjusted EBITDA are further adjusted for certain KML activities attributable to our noncontrolling interests in KML for the periods presented through KML’s sale on December 16, 2019, see “—Non-GAAP Financial Measures—Supplemental Information—KML Activities Prior to December 16, 2019” below. Net Debt Net Debt is calculated, based on amounts as of December 31, 2020, by subtracting the following amounts from our debt balance of $34,689 million:  (i) cash and cash equivalents of $1,184 million; (ii) debt fair value adjustments of $1,293 million; and (iii) the foreign exchange impact on Euro-denominated bonds of $170 million for which we have entered into currency swaps.  Net Debt is a non-GAAP financial measure that is useful to investors and other users of our financial information in evaluating our leverage.  We believe the most comparable measure to Net Debt is debt net of cash and cash equivalents.  Our Net Debt-to-Adjusted EBITDA ratio was 4.6 as of December 31, 2020. 43 Consolidated Earnings Results (GAAP) The following tables summarize the key components of our consolidated earnings results. (a) Includes revenues, earnings from equity investments, and other, net, less operating expenses, loss (gain) on impairments and divestitures, net, and other income, net.  Operating expenses include costs of sales, operations and maintenance expenses, and taxes, other than income taxes. Year Ended December 31, 2020 vs. 2019 Net income attributable to Kinder Morgan, Inc. decreased $2,071 million in 2020 compared to 2019.  The decrease was due primarily to $1,950 million of non-cash impairments of goodwill associated with our Natural Gas Pipelines Non-Regulated and CO 2 reporting units and non-cash impairments of certain oil and gas producing assets in our CO 2 business segment.  The decrease in results was further impacted by lower earnings from all of our business segments primarily attributable to COVID-19-related reduced energy demand and commodity price impacts and the impact of the KML and U.S. Cochin Sale in the fourth quarter of 2019 on our Natural Gas Pipelines and Terminals business segments, partially offset by the benefit of completed expansion projects in our Natural Gas Pipelines business segment, by lower interest expense and DD&A expense, and by lower income tax expense due to 2019 income taxes related to the KML and U.S. Cochin Sale. 44 Certain Items Affecting Consolidated Earnings Results (a) For a more detailed discussion of these Certain Items, see the footnotes to the tables within “—Segment Earnings Results” and “—DD&A, General and Administrative and Corporate Charges, Interest, net and Noncontrolling Interests” below. (b) The combined net effect of the Certain Items represents the income tax provision on Certain Items plus discrete income tax items. Net income attributable to Kinder Morgan, Inc. adjusted for Certain Items (Adjusted Earnings) decreased by $150 million from the prior year and was primarily due to lower earnings from all of our business segments primarily attributable to COVID-19-related reduced energy demand and commodity price impacts and the impact of the KML and U.S. Cochin Sale in the fourth quarter of 2019 on our Natural Gas Pipelines and Terminals business segments, partially offset by the benefit of completed expansion projects in our Natural Gas Pipelines business segment and by lower interest expense and DD&A expense. 45 Non-GAAP Financial Measures Reconciliation of Net Income Attributable to Kinder Morgan, Inc. (GAAP) to Adjusted Earnings to DCF Adjusted Segment EBDA to Adjusted EBITDA to DCF (a) Amounts are adjusted for Certain Items.  See tables included in “—Reconciliation of Net Income (GAAP) to Adjusted EBITDA” and “—Supplemental Information” below. (b) Includes DD&A or income tax expense, as applicable, from joint ventures.  2019 amounts are also net of DD&A or income tax expense attributable to KML noncontrolling interests.  See tables included in “—Supplemental Information” below. (c) Includes cash taxes or sustaining capital expenditures, as applicable, from joint ventures.  See tables included in “—Supplemental Information” below. (d) Includes pension contributions and non-cash pension expense, and non-cash compensation associated with our restricted stock program. 46 (e) Represents joint venture DD&A and income tax expense.  See tables included in “—Supplemental Information” below. (f) 2019 amount represents the combined net income, DD&A and income tax expense adjusted for Certain Items, as applicable, attributable to KML noncontrolling interests.  See table included in “—Supplemental Information” below. (g) Includes restricted stock awards that participate in common share dividends. Reconciliation of Net Income (GAAP) to Adjusted EBITDA (a) Gains or losses are reflected in our DCF when realized. (b) 2020 amount includes: (i) a pre-tax non-cash impairment loss of $350 million related to oil and gas producing assets in our CO 2 business segment driven by low oil prices and (ii) $21 million for asset impairments in our Products Pipelines business segment, which are reported within “Loss (gain) on impairments and divestitures, net” on the accompanying consolidated statement of income.  2019 amount primarily includes: (i) a $1,296 million pre-tax gain on the KML and U.S. Cochin Sale and a pre-tax loss of $364 million for asset impairments, related to gathering and processing assets in Oklahoma and northern Texas in our Natural Gas Pipelines business segment and oil and gas producing assets in our CO 2 business segment, which are reported within “Loss (gain) on impairments and divestitures, net” on the accompanying consolidated statement of income and (ii) a pre-tax $650 million loss for an impairment of our investment in Ruby Pipeline which is reported within “Earnings from equity investments” on the accompanying consolidated statement of income. (c) 2020 amount includes non-cash impairments of goodwill of $1,000 million and $600 million associated with our Natural Gas Pipelines Non-Regulated and our CO 2 reporting units, respectively. (d) 2020 and 2019 amounts include $(4) million and $634 million, respectively, reported within “Earnings from equity investments” on our accompanying consolidated statements of income. (e) Amounts are adjusted for Certain Items. See tables included in “—Supplemental Information” and “—DD&A, General and Administrative and Corporate Charges, Interest, net and Noncontrolling Interests” below. (f) Represents joint venture DD&A and income tax expense.  See table included in “—Supplemental Information” below. 47 Supplemental Information (a) Amounts are adjusted for Certain Items. (b) Amounts are associated with our Citrus, NGPL and PPL pipeline equity investments. 48 Segment Earnings Results Natural Gas Pipelines Certain Items affecting Segment EBDA (a) Includes Certain Item amounts of $983 million and $(51) million for 2020 and 2019, respectively.  2020 amount includes (i) a $1,000 million non-cash goodwill impairment on our Natural Gas Pipelines Non-Regulated reporting unit; (ii) an increase in revenues of $19 million resulting from amortization of regulatory liabilities including amounts recognized through earnings from equity investments; and (iii) a decrease in revenues of $15 million related to non-cash mark-to-market derivative contracts used to hedge forecasted natural gas and NGL sales.  2 019 amount includes (i) a $957 million gain on the sale of Cochin Pipeline system; (ii) a $650 million non-cash impairment loss related to our investment in Ruby; (iii) $157 million and $133 million non-cash losses on impairments of certain gathering and processing assets in North Texas and Oklahoma, respectively; (iv) an increase in earnings of $23 million for a gain on an ownership rights contract with a joint venture partner; (v) a $16 million increase in earnings related to amortization of regulatory liabilities recognized through earnings of equity investments; and (vi) a $12 million decrease in revenues related to non-cash mark-to-market derivative contracts used to hedge forecasted natural gas and NGL sales. Other (b) Joint venture throughput is reported at our ownership share. Volumes for assets sold are excluded for all periods presented. Below are the changes in Adjusted Segment EBDA between 2020 and 2019: Year Ended December 31, 2020 versus Year Ended December 31, 2019 49 The changes in Segment EBDA for our Natural Gas Pipelines business segment are further explained by the following discussion of the significant factors driving Adjusted Segment EBDA in the comparable years of 2020 and 2019: • Midstream’s decrease of $254 million (18%) was primarily due to (i) a decrease of $142 million related to the sale of the Cochin Pipeline system on December 16, 2019 to Pembina; (ii) lower commodity prices on, a decrease in volumes and two customer bankruptcies associated with our South Texas assets; (iii) lower volumes on KinderHawk; and (iv) lower contract rates on our North Texas assets.  These decreases were partially offset by higher equity earnings due to the Gulf Coast Express Pipeline being placed in service in September 2019.  Overall Midstream’s revenues decreased primarily due to lower commodity prices which was largely offset by corresponding decreases in costs of sales; • West Region’s decrease of $47 million (4%) was primarily due to decreases in earnings from (i) Ruby Pipeline Company, L.L.C. due principally to credit losses and lost revenues resulting from two of its customers’ bankruptcies; (ii) CPGPL as a result of the expiration of one shipper’s contract; and (iii) EPNG driven by higher operating expenses; and • East Region’s increase of $157 million (7%) was primarily due to increases in earnings from ELC and SLNG resulting from the liquefaction units of the Elba Liquefaction project gradually being placed into service in the later part of 2019 and through the first eight months of 2020, and increased equity earnings from NGPL primarily due to higher revenues.  These increases were partially offset by reduced contributions from TGP due to the impact of the FERC 501-G rate settlement on its revenues. 50 Products Pipelines Certain Items affecting Segment EBDA (a) Includes Certain Item amounts of $50 million and $33 million in the 2020 and 2019 periods, respectively.  2020 amount includes a $46 million unfavorable rate case reserve adjustment, a non-cash loss on impairment of our Belton Terminal of $21 million and a $17 million favorable adjustment for tax reserves, other than income taxes.  2019 amount primarily related to unfavorable adjustments of an environmental reserve and of tax reserves, other than income taxes. Other (b) Joint venture throughput is reported at our ownership share. (c) Volumes include ethanol pipeline volumes. Below are the changes in Adjusted Segment EBDA between 2020 and 2019: Year Ended December 31, 2020 versus Year Ended December 31, 2019 The changes in Segment EBDA for our Products Pipelines business segment are further explained by the following discussion of the significant factors driving Adjusted Segment EBDA in the comparable years of 2020 and 2019: • Crude and Condensate’s decrease of $119 million (25%) was primarily due to decreased earnings from Kinder Morgan Crude & Condensate Pipeline (KMCC) and the Bakken Crude assets.  KMCC’s decreased earnings were primarily due to lower volumes. The Bakken Crude assets decreased earnings were primarily driven by lower volumes and reduced 51 re-contracted rates on Double H pipeline. KMCC and Bakken Crude assets decreases were also impacted by unfavorable inventory valuation adjustments driven by declines in commodity prices during the first quarter 2020; • West Coast Refined Products’ decrease of $63 million (12%) was due to decreased earnings on Pacific (SFPP) operations, Calnev Pipe Line LLC and West Coast terminals driven by lower service revenues as a result of a reduction in volumes due to COVID-19; and • Southeast Refined Products’ decrease of $49 million (18%) was primarily due to decreased earnings from our South East Terminals and a decrease in equity earnings from PPL pipeline as a result of decreased services revenues driven by lower volumes and prices due to COVID-19, and lower earnings from our Transmix processing operations driven by unfavorable inventory adjustments resulting from commodity price declines during the first quarter 2020. Terminals Certain Items affecting Segment EBDA (a) Includes Certain Item amounts of $(55) million and $(332) million for 2020 and 2019, respectively.  2020 amount related to a gain on sale of our Staten Island terminal and 2019 amount primarily related to a gain of $339 million on the sale of KML. Other (b) Volumes for assets sold are excluded for all periods presented. (c) The ratio of our tankage capacity in service to tankage capacity available for service. 52 Below are the changes in Adjusted Segment EBDA between 2020 and 2019: Year Ended December 31, 2020 versus Year Ended December 31, 2019 The changes in Segment EBDA for our Terminals business segment are further explained by the following discussion of the significant factors driving Adjusted Segment EBDA in the comparable years of 2020 and 2019: • the Sale of KML assets to Pembina on December 16, 2019, which accounted for the decreases on our Alberta Canada terminals and our West Coast terminals; • decrease of $23 million (7%) from our Gulf Liquids terminals primarily driven by lower volumes and associated ancillary fees related to demand reduction attributable to COVID-19 as well as tanks being temporarily off-lease as they are transitioned to new customers following the termination of a major customer contract; • decrease of $10 million (15%) from our Mid Atlantic terminals primarily due to lower coal volumes at our Pier IX facility driven by coal market weakness largely attributable to demand reduction associated with COVID-19; and • decrease of $8 million (12%) from our Gulf Bulk terminals primarily due to decreased coal volumes and the impact of an expired contract in January 2020. 53 CO 2 Certain Items affecting Segment EBDA (a) Includes Certain Item amounts of $944 million and $26 million for 2020 and 2019, respectively.  2020 amount includes (i) a $600 million goodwill impairment on our CO 2 reporting unit and (ii) non-cash impairments of $350 million on our oil and gas producing assets.  2019 amount includes non-cash impairments of $75 million on our oil and gas producing assets and an increase in revenues of $49 million related to mark-to-market gains associated with derivative contracts used to hedge forecasted commodity sales. Other (b) Net of royalties and outside working interests. Below are the changes in Adjusted Segment EBDA between 2020 and 2019: Year Ended December 31, 2020 versus Year Ended December 31, 2019 54 The changes in Segment EBDA for our CO 2 business segment are further explained by the following discussion of the significant factors driving Adjusted Segment EBDA in the comparable years of 2020 and 2019: • decrease of  $82 million (28%) from our Source and Transportation activities primarily due to a decrease of $103 million related to lower CO 2 sales volumes partially offset by lower operating expenses of $28 million; and • increase of $27 million (6%) from our Oil and Gas Producing activities primarily due to (i) lower operating expenses of $69 million; and (ii) higher realized crude oil prices which increased revenues by $62 million, offset by (i) lower volumes which decreased revenues by $92 million; and (ii) lower NGL prices which decreased revenues by $24 million. We believe that our existing hedge contracts in place within our CO 2 business segment substantially mitigate commodity price sensitivities in the near-term and to lesser extent over the following few years from price exposure.  Below is a summary of our CO 2 business segment hedges outstanding as of December 31, 2020. (a) Includes West Texas Intermediate hedges. DD&A, General and Administrative and Corporate Charges, Interest, net and Noncontrolling Interests Certain Items (a) 2020 amount includes $52 million for restricted stock accelerated vesting and severance expense, $15 million related to costs incurred associated with COVID-19 mitigation and an increase in expense of $23 million associated with a non-cash fair value adjustment and the dividend on the Pembina common stock.  2019 amount includes: (i) an increase in asset sale related costs of $15 million; (ii) an increase in expense of $13 million related to a litigation matter; and (iii) a decrease in expense of $19 million associated with a non-cash fair value adjustment on the Pembina common stock. 55 (b) Amounts are adjusted for Certain Items. (c) 2020 and 2019 amounts include: (i) decreases in interest expense of $21 million and $29 million, respectively, related to non-cash debt fair value adjustments associated with acquisitions and (ii) increases of $8 million and $13 million, respectively, in interest expense related to non-cash mismatches between the change in fair value of interest rate swaps and change in fair value of hedged debt. DD&A expense decreased $247 million in 2020 when compared to 2019 primarily due to larger non-cash impairments taken in the first quarter 2020 compared to the fourth quarter 2019 on our oil and gas producing assets, lower CO 2 business segment oil and gas production and the sale of KML partially offset by our Elba Liquefaction project gradually placed into service during 2019 and 2020. General and administrative expenses and corporate charges adjusted for Certain Items decreased $37 million in 2020 when compared to 2019 primarily due to lower non-cash pension expenses of $45 million, lower expenses of $31 million due to the KML and U.S. Cochin Sale and $20 million of cost savings associated with efficiency efforts and reduced activity during the pandemic, partially offset by lower capitalized costs of $57 million reflecting reduced capital projects primarily in our Natural Gas Pipelines, CO 2 and Products Pipelines business segments. In the table above, we report our interest expense as “net,” meaning that we have subtracted interest income and capitalized interest from our total interest expense to arrive at one interest amount.  Our consolidated interest expense, net adjusted for Certain Items decreased $206 million in 2020 when compared to 2019 primarily due to lower weighted average long-term debt balances and lower LIBOR rates partially offset by lower capitalized interest. We use interest rate swap agreements to convert a portion of the underlying cash flows related to our long-term fixed rate debt securities (senior notes) into variable rate debt in order to achieve our desired mix of fixed and variable rate debt.  As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, approximately 16% and 27%, respectively, of the principal amount of our debt balances were subject to variable interest rates—either as short-term or long-term variable rate debt obligations or as fixed-rate debt converted to variable rates through the use of interest rate swaps.  For more information on our interest rate swaps, see Note 14 “ Risk Management—Interest Rate Risk Management ” to our consolidated financial statements. Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests, represents the allocation of our consolidated net income attributable to all outstanding ownership interests in our consolidated subsidiaries that are not owned by us.  Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests adjusted for Certain Items increased $8 million in 2020 compared to 2019. Income Taxes Year Ended December 31, 2020 versus Year Ended December 31, 2019 Our income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2020 is approximately $481 million, as compared with income tax expense of $926 million for the same period of 2019.  The $445 million decrease in income tax expense in 2020 as compared to 2019 is due primarily to (i) lower pretax income in 2020, (ii) lower foreign income taxes as a result of the KML and U.S. Cochin Sale in 2019, and (iii) the refund of alternative minimum tax sequestration credits in 2020.  These decreases are partially offset by the lack of tax benefit on the higher impairment of non-tax deductible goodwill in 2020 and lower dividend-received deductions related to our investment in NGPL in 2020. Liquidity and Capital Resources General As of December 31, 2020, we had $1,184 million of “Cash and cash equivalents,” an increase of $999 million from December 31, 2019.  Additionally, as of December 31, 2020, we had borrowing capacity of approximately $3.9 billion under our $4 billion revolving credit facility (discussed below in “ —Short-term Liquidity ”).  As discussed further below, we believe our cash flows from operating activities, cash position and remaining borrowing capacity on our credit facility are more than adequate to allow us to manage our day-to-day cash requirements and anticipated obligations. We have consistently generated substantial cash flow from operations, providing a source of funds of $4,550 million and $4,748 million in 2020 and 2019, respectively.  The year-to-year decrease is discussed below in “ —Cash Flows—Operating Activities. ”  We primarily rely on cash provided from operations to fund our operations as well as our debt service, sustaining capital expenditures, dividend payments, and our growth capital expenditures. We believe our current cash on hand, our cash from operations and our borrowing capacity under our revolving credit facility are more than adequate to allow us to manage 56 our cash requirements, including maturing debt, through 2021; however, we may access the debt capital markets from time to time to refinance our maturing long-term debt. Our board of directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.2625 per share for the fourth quarter of 2020, consistent with previous quarters in 2020.  The total of the dividends declared for 2020 of $1.05 represents a 5% increase over total dividends declared for 2019.  We expect to fully fund our dividend payments as well as our discretionary spending for 2021 without funding from the capital markets with additional flexibility to engage in share repurchases on an opportunistic basis. Short-term Liquidity As of December 31, 2020, our principal sources of short-term liquidity are (i) cash from operations; (ii) our $4.0 billion revolving credit facility and associated commercial paper program; and (iii) cash and cash equivalents.  The loan commitments under our revolving credit facility can be used for working capital and other general corporate purposes, and as a backup to our commercial paper program.  Letters of credit and commercial paper borrowings reduce borrowings allowed under our credit facility.  We provide for liquidity by maintaining a sizable amount of excess borrowing capacity under our credit facility and, as previously discussed, have consistently generated strong cash flows from operations.  We do not anticipate any significant limitations from the continuing impacts of COVID-19 with respect to our ability to access funding through our credit facility. As of December 31, 2020, our $2,558 million of short-term debt consisted primarily of senior notes that mature in the next twelve months.  We intend to fund our debt, as it becomes due, primarily through credit facility borrowings, commercial paper borrowings, cash flows from operations, and/or issuing new long-term debt.  Our short-term debt balance as of December 31, 2019 was $2,477 million. We had working capital (defined as current assets less current liabilities) deficits of $1,871 million and $1,862 million as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively.  From time to time, our current liabilities may include short-term borrowings used to finance our expansion capital expenditures, which we may periodically replace with long-term financing and/or pay down using retained cash from operations.  The overall slight $9 million unfavorable change from year-end 2019 was primarily due to: (i) a decrease of $925 million related to the sale of Pembina common equity in January 2020; (ii) an increase of approximately $216 million in senior notes that mature in the next twelve months; and (iii) the $100 million repayment of the preferred interest in Kinder Morgan G.P. Inc.; substantially offset by (i) an increase in cash and cash equivalents of $999 million; and (ii) a favorable asset fair value adjustment of $101 million on derivative contracts in 2020.  Generally, our working capital balance varies due to factors such as the timing of scheduled debt payments, timing differences in the collection and payment of receivables and payables, the change in fair value of our derivative contracts, and changes in our cash and cash equivalent balances as a result of excess cash from operations after payments for investing and financing activities (discussed below in “ —Long-term Financing ” and “ —Capital Expenditures ”). We employ a centralized cash management program for our U.S.-based bank accounts that concentrates the cash assets of our wholly owned subsidiaries in joint accounts for the purpose of providing financial flexibility and lowering the cost of borrowing.  These programs provide that funds in excess of the daily needs of our wholly owned subsidiaries are concentrated, consolidated or otherwise made available for use by other entities within the consolidated group.  We place no material restrictions on the ability to move cash between entities, payment of intercompany balances or the ability to upstream dividends to KMI other than restrictions that may be contained in agreements governing the indebtedness of those entities. Certain of our wholly owned subsidiaries are subject to FERC-enacted reporting requirements for oil and natural gas pipeline companies that participate in cash management programs.  FERC-regulated entities subject to these rules must, among other things, place their cash management agreements in writing, maintain current copies of the documents authorizing and supporting their cash management agreements, and file documentation establishing the cash management program with the FERC. Credit Ratings and Capital Market Liquidity We believe that our capital structure will continue to allow us to achieve our business objectives.  We expect that our short-term liquidity needs will be met primarily through retained cash from operations or short-term borrowings.  Generally, we anticipate re-financing maturing long-term debt obligations in the debt capital markets and are therefore subject to certain market conditions which could result in higher costs or negatively affect our and/or our subsidiaries’ credit ratings.  A decrease in our credit ratings could negatively impact our borrowing costs and could limit our access to capital, including our ability to refinance maturities of existing indebtedness on similar terms, which could in turn reduce our cash flows and limit our ability to pursue acquisition or expansion opportunities. 57 As of December 31, 2020, our short-term corporate debt ratings were A-2, Prime-2 and F2 at Standard and Poor’s, Moody’s Investor Services and Fitch Ratings, Inc., respectively. The following table represents KMI’s and KMP’s senior unsecured debt ratings as of December 31, 2020. Long-term Financing Our equity consists of Class P common stock with a par value of $0.01 per share.  We do not expect to need to access the equity capital markets to fund our discretionary capital investments for the foreseeable future.  See also “— Dividends and Stock Buy-back Program ” below for additional discussion related to our dividends and stock buy-back program. From time to time, we issue long-term debt securities, often referred to as senior notes.  All of our senior notes issued to date, other than those issued by certain of our subsidiaries, generally have very similar terms, except for interest rates, maturity dates and prepayment premiums.  All of our fixed rate senior notes provide that the notes may be redeemed at any time at a price equal to 100% of the principal amount of the notes plus accrued interest to the redemption date, and, in most cases, plus a make-whole premium.  In addition, from time to time, our subsidiaries issue long-term debt securities.  Furthermore, we and almost all of our direct and indirect wholly owned domestic subsidiaries are parties to a cross guaranty wherein we each guarantee each other’s debt.  See “ —Summarized Combined Financial Information for Guarantee of Securities of Subsidiaries . As of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the aggregate principal amount outstanding of our various long-term debt obligations (excluding current maturities) was $30,838 million and $30,883 million, respectively. On August 5, 2020, we issued in a registered offering two series of senior notes consisting of $750 million aggregate principal amount of 2.00% senior notes due 2031 and $500 million aggregate principal amount of 3.25% senior notes due 2050 and received combined net proceeds of $1,226 million.  We used the proceeds to repay maturing debt, including in early January 2021, our $750 million 3.50% senior notes that were scheduled to mature in March 2021. To refinance construction costs of its recent expansions, on February 24, 2020, TGP, a wholly owned subsidiary, issued in a private placement $1,000 million aggregate principal amount of its 2.90% senior notes due 2030 and received net proceeds of $991 million. We achieve our variable rate exposure primarily by issuing long-term fixed rate debt and then swapping the fixed rate interest payments for variable rate interest payments and through the issuance of commercial paper or credit facility borrowings. For additional information about our outstanding senior notes and debt-related transactions in 2020 , see Note 9 “Debt” to our consolidated financial statements.  For information about our interest rate risk, see Item 7A “ Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk—Interest Rate Risk. ” Counterparty Creditworthiness Some of our customers or other counterparties may experience severe financial problems that may have a significant impact on their creditworthiness.  These financial problems may arise from our current global economic conditions, continued volatility of commodity prices or otherwise.  In such situations, we utilize, to the extent allowable under applicable contracts, tariffs and regulations, prepayments and other security requirements, such as letters of credit, to enhance our credit position relating to amounts owed from these counterparties.  While we believe we have taken reasonable measures to protect against counterparty credit risk, we cannot provide assurance that one or more of our customers or other counterparties will not become financially distressed and will not default on their obligations to us.  The balance of our allowance for credit losses as of December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019, was $ 26 million and $ 9 million, respectively, reflected in “Other current assets” on our consolidated balance sheets, which includes reserves for counterparty bankruptcies recorded during the year ended December 31, 2020. 58 Capital Expenditures We account for our capital expenditures in accordance with GAAP. We also distinguish between capital expenditures that are maintenance/sustaining capital expenditures and those that are expansion capital expenditures (which we also refer to as discretionary capital expenditures).  Expansion capital expenditures are those expenditures which increase throughput or capacity from that which existed immediately prior to the addition or improvement, and are not deducted in calculating DCF (see “ —Results of Operations—Non-GAAP Financial Measures—Reconciliation of Net Income Attributable to Kinder Morgan, Inc. (GAAP) to Adjusted Earnings to DCF ”). With respect to our oil and gas producing activities, we classify a capital expenditure as an expansion capital expenditure if it is expected to increase capacity or throughput (i.e., production capacity) from the capacity or throughput immediately prior to the making or acquisition of such additions or improvements. Maintenance capital expenditures are those which maintain throughput or capacity.  The distinction between maintenance and expansion capital expenditures is a physical determination rather than an economic one, irrespective of the amount by which the throughput or capacity is increased. Budgeting of maintenance capital expenditures is done annually on a bottom-up basis.  For each of our assets, we budget for and make those maintenance capital expenditures that are necessary to maintain safe and efficient operations, meet customer needs and comply with our operating policies and applicable law.  We may budget for and make additional maintenance capital expenditures that we expect to produce economic benefits such as increasing efficiency and/or lowering future expenses. Budgeting and approval of expansion capital expenditures are generally made periodically throughout the year on a project-by-project basis in response to specific investment opportunities identified by our business segments from which we generally expect to receive sufficient returns to justify the expenditures.  Generally, the determination of whether a capital expenditure is classified as maintenance/sustaining or as expansion capital expenditures is made on a project level.  The classification of our capital expenditures as expansion capital expenditures or as maintenance capital expenditures is made consistent with our accounting policies and is generally a straightforward process, but in certain circumstances can be a matter of management judgment and discretion.  The classification has an impact on DCF because capital expenditures that are classified as expansion capital expenditures are not deducted from DCF, while those classified as maintenance capital expenditures are. Our capital expenditures for the year ended December 31, 2020, and the amount we expect to spend for 2021 to sustain our assets and grow our business are as follows: (a) 2020 and Expected 2021 amounts include $114 million and $119 million, respectively, for sustaining capital expenditures from unconsolidated joint ventures, reduced by consolidated joint venture partners’ sustaining capital expenditures.  See table included in “ Non-GAAP Financial Measures—Supplemental Information .” (b) 2020 excludes $21 million due to decreases in accrued capital expenditures and contractor retainage and net changes in other. (c) 2020 amount includes $550 million of our contributions to certain unconsolidated joint ventures for capital investments and small acquisitions. (d) Amounts include our actual or estimated contributions to certain unconsolidated joint ventures, net of actual or estimated contributions from certain partners in non-wholly owned consolidated subsidiaries for capital investments. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We have invested in entities that are not consolidated in our financial statements.  For information on our obligations with respect to these investments, as well as our obligations with respect to related letters of credit, see Note 13 “Commitments and Contingent Liabilities” to our consolidated financial statements.  Additional information regarding the nature and business purpose of our investments is included in Note 7 “Investments” to our consolidated financial statements. 59 Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments (a) See Note 9 “Debt” to our consolidated financial statements. (b) Interest payment obligations exclude adjustments for interest rate swap agreements and assume no change in variable interest rates from those in effect at December 31,2020. (c) Represents commitments pursuant to the terms of operating lease agreements as of December 31, 2020. (d) Represents the amount by which the benefit obligations exceeded the fair value of plan assets at year-end for pension and OPEB plans whose accumulated postretirement benefit obligations exceeded the fair value of plan assets. The payments by period include expected contributions in 2021 and estimated benefit payments for underfunded plans in the other years. (e) Primarily represents transportation agreements of $279 million, NGL volume agreements of $208 million and storage agreements for capacity of $131 million. (f) Primarily includes (i) rights-of-way obligations; and (ii) environmental liabilities related to sites that we own or have a contractual or legal obligation with a regulatory agency or property owner upon which we will perform remediation activities. These environmental liabilities are included within “Other current liabilities” and “Other long-term liabilities and deferred credits” in our consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 2020. (g) The $147 million in letters of credit outstanding as of December 31, 2020 consisted of the following (i) letters of credit totaling $46 million supporting our International Marine Terminals Partnership Plaquemines, Louisiana Port, Harbor, and Terminal Revenue Bonds; (ii) $46 million under seven letters of credit for insurance purposes; (iii) a $24 million letter of credit supporting our Kinder Morgan Operating LLC “B” tax-exempt bonds; and (iv) a combined $31 million in thirty letters of credit supporting environmental and other obligations of us and our subsidiaries. (h) Represents commitments for the purchase of plant, property and equipment as of December 31, 2020. Cash Flows Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities decreased $198 million in 2020 compared to 2019 primarily due to: • a $409 million decrease in cash after adjusting the $2,059 million decrease in net income by $1,650 million for the combined effects of the period-to-period net changes in non-cash items including the following: (i) loss on impairments and divestitures, net (see discussion above in “—Results of Operations”); (ii) changes in fair market value of derivative contracts; (iii) DD&A expenses (including amortization of excess cost of equity investments); (iv) deferred income taxes; and (v) earnings from equity investments; partially offset by • a $145 million increase in cash primarily resulting from $227 million of net income tax payments in the 2020 period compared to $372 million of net income tax payments in the 2019 period, which in both periods were primarily for foreign income taxes associated with the sale of certain Canadian assets.  The income tax payments for the 2020 period are net of a $20 million refund related to alternative minimum tax sequestration credits; and • a $66 million increase in cash associated with net changes in working capital items, other than income tax payments, and other non-current assets and liabilities. The increase was driven, among other things, primarily by a favorable change due to the timing of trade payables payments, and partially offset by higher pension plan contributions we made in the 2020 period compared to the 2019 period. 60 Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities decreased $803 million in 2020 compared to 2019 primarily due to: ◦ a $959 million increase in cash from the proceeds received from the sales of property, plant and equipment, investments, and other net assets, net of removal costs primarily due to $907 million of proceeds received from the sale of the Pembina shares in the 2020 period.  See Note 4 “Divestitures” to our consolidated financial statements for further information regarding this transaction; ◦ a $913 million decrease in cash used for contributions to equity investments driven by lower contributions to Gulf Coast Express Pipeline LLC, MEP, Citrus, and FEP in the 2020 period compared with the 2019 period, partially offset by contributions made to SNG in the 2020 period; and ◦ a $563 million decrease in capital expenditures in the 2020 period over the comparative 2019 period primarily due to lower expenditures on the Elba Liquefaction expansion and also reflecting our reduction of expansion capital projects in the wake of COVID-19; partially offset by ◦ the $1,527 million decrease in cash resulting from proceeds received from the KML and U.S. Cochin Sale, net of cash disposed, in 2019.  See Note 4 “Divestitures” to our consolidated financial statements for further information regarding this transaction; and ◦ a $179 million decrease in distributions received from equity investments in excess of cumulative earnings primarily from Ruby, FEP and SNG in the 2020 period over the comparative 2019 period. Financing Activities Cash used in financing activities decreased $3,547 million in 2020 compared to 2019 primarily due to: • a $3,065 million net increase in cash from net debt activity primarily driven by an increase in long-term debt issuances, and to a lesser extent, lower long-term debt repayments and lower utilization of our credit facility for short-term borrowings, which resulted in a substantial decrease in each our total debt issuances and total debt payments, in the 2020 period compared to the 2019 period.  See Note 9 “Debt” to our consolidated financial statements for further information regarding our debt activity; and • an $879 million decrease in cash used resulting from the distribution of the TMPL sale proceeds to the owners of KML restricted voting shares in the 2019 period; partially offset by • a $199 million increase in dividend payments to our common shareholders; and • a $137 million decrease in contributions received from an investment partner and noncontrolling interests primarily driven by lower contributions received from EIG in the 2020 period compared to the 2019 period. Dividends and Stock Buy-back Program The table below reflects the declaration of common stock dividends of $1.05 per common share for 2020: We expect to continue to return additional value to our shareholders in 2021 through our previously announced dividend increase.  We plan to increase our dividend by 3% to $1.08 per common share in 2021.  Based on our 2021 expectations, we also expect to have the capacity to engage in opportunistic share repurchases up to $450 million during the year under our $2 billion common share buy-back program approved by our board of directors in July 2017.  Since December 2017, in total, we have repurchased approximately 32 million of our Class P shares under the program at an average price of approximately $17.71 per share for approximately $575 million.  For information on our equity buy-back program and our equity distribution agreement, see Note 11 “Stockholders' Equity” to our consolidated financial statements. The actual amount of common stock dividends to be paid on our capital stock will depend on many factors, including our financial condition and results of operations, liquidity requirements, business prospects, capital requirements, legal, regulatory and contractual constraints, tax laws, Delaware laws and other factors.  See Item 1A “ Risk Factors—The guidance we provide 61 for our anticipated dividends is based on estimates.  Circumstances may arise that lead to conflicts between using funds to pay anticipated dividends or to invest in our business.” All of these matters will be taken into consideration by our board of directors in declaring dividends. Our common stock dividends are not cumulative.  Consequently, if dividends on our common stock are not paid at the intended levels, our common stockholders are not entitled to receive those payments in the future.  Our common stock dividends generally will be paid on or about the 15th day of each February, May, August and November. Summarized Combined Financial Information for Guarantee of Securities of Subsidiaries KMI and certain subsidiaries (Subsidiary Issuers) are issuers of certain debt securities.  KMI and substantially all of KMI’s wholly owned domestic subsidiaries (Subsidiary Guarantors), are parties to a cross guarantee agreement whereby each party to the agreement unconditionally guarantees, jointly and severally, the payment of specified indebtedness of each other party to the agreement.  Accordingly, with the exception of certain subsidiaries identified as Subsidiary Non-Guarantors, the parent issuer, subsidiary issuers and Subsidiary Guarantors (the “Obligated Group”) are all guarantors of each series of our guaranteed debt (Guaranteed Notes).  As a result of the cross guarantee agreement, a holder of any of the Guaranteed Notes issued by KMI or subsidiary issuers are in the same position with respect to the net assets, and income of KMI and the Subsidiary Issuers and Guarantors.  The only amounts that are not available to the holders of each of the Guaranteed Notes to satisfy the repayment of such securities are the net assets, and income of the Subsidiary Non-Guarantors. In lieu of providing separate financial statements for subsidiary issuers and guarantors, we have presented the accompanying supplemental summarized combined income statement and balance sheet information for the Obligated Group based on Rule 13-01 of the SEC’s Regulation S-X that we early adopted effective January 1, 2020.  Also, see Exhibit 10.14 to this Report “ Cross Guarantee Agreement, dated as of November 26, 2014, among KMI and certain of its subsidiaries, with schedules updated as of December 31, 2020. ” All significant intercompany items among the Obligated Group have been eliminated in the supplemental summarized combined financial information. The Obligated Group’s investment balances in Subsidiary Non-guarantors have been excluded from the supplemental summarized combined financial information. Significant intercompany balances and activity for the Obligated Group with other related parties, including Subsidiary Non-Guarantors, (referred to as “affiliates”) are presented separately in the accompanying supplemental summarized combined financial information. Excluding fair value adjustments, as of December 31, 2020 and 2019, the Obligated Group had $32,563 million and $32,409 million, respectively, of Guaranteed Notes outstanding. Summarized combined balance sheet and income statement information for the Obligated Group follows: 62 Recent Accounting Pronouncements Please refer to Note 19 “Recent Accounting Pronouncements” to our consolidated financial statements for information concerning recent accounting pronouncements.