********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

We are subject to a variety of risks, the most significant of which are described below.  Our business, sales, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. BUSINESS RISKS The COVID-19 pandemic has had and may continue to have a significant negative impact on our business, sales, results of operations and financial condition. The COVID-19 pandemic has led to a severe disruption in general economic activity, particularly retail operations, as businesses and federal, state, and local governments take measures to mitigate the ongoing public health crisis.  We have experienced significant disruption to our business, both in terms of disruption to our operations and the adverse effect on overall economic conditions.  While we have re-opened the stores that we closed at the beginning of the outbreak, we continue to maintain restricted operations at many of our retail and wholesale locations and we may need to close stores again in the future.  The scope and duration of these limitations are uncertain and the continued potential for store closures may persist.  Limited retail operations, including occupancy restrictions and store closures, and the uncertainty caused by COVID-19 resulted in weakened consumer demand.  These conditions could continue to have a significantly negative effect on all aspects of our business, including used vehicle sales operations, wholesale vehicle auctions, used vehicle financing, extended protection plan sales, inventory acquisition, and retail service. The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic further impacts our industry, business, sales, results of operations and financial condition will depend on future developments, which are highly uncertain and cannot be predicted, including, but not limited to, 12 the duration and spread of the outbreak, its severity, the actions to contain the virus or treat its impact, including the availability and efficacy of vaccines, and how quickly and to what extent normal economic and operating conditions can resume.  There are no comparable recent events that provide guidance as to the long term effect COVID-19 may have on our business or the economy, and even if the COVID-19 pandemic subsides, we may continue to experience significant impacts to our business as a result of its economic impact and changes in consumer behavior. We operate in a highly competitive industry.  Failure to develop and execute strategies to remain the nation’s preferred retailer of used vehicles and to adapt to the increasing use of digital and online tools to market, buy, sell and finance used vehicles could adversely affect our business, sales and results of operations. Automotive retailing is a highly competitive and highly fragmented business.  Our competition includes publicly and privately owned new and used car dealers and online and mobile sales platforms, as well as millions of private individuals.   Competitors buy and sell the same or similar makes of vehicles that we offer in the same or similar markets at competitive prices.  New car dealers leverage their franchise relationships with automotive manufacturers to brand certain used cars as “certified pre-owned,” which could provide those competitors with an advantage over CarMax. Retail Competition. Some of our competitors have replicated or attempted to replicate portions of the consumer offer that we pioneered when we opened our first used car store in 1993, including our use of competitive, no-haggle prices and our commitment to buy a customer’s vehicle even if they do not purchase one from us. Competitors using online focused business models, both for direct sales and consumer-to-consumer facilitation, could materially impact our business model.  Increased online used vehicle offerings could make it more difficult for us to differentiate our customer offering from competitors’ offerings, could result in lower-than-expected retail margins, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations.  If we fail to respond effectively to our retail competitors, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations. Online Facilitation. In addition, our competitive standing is affected by companies, including search engines and online classified sites, that are not direct competitors but that may direct online traffic to the websites of competing automotive retailers.  The increasing activities of these companies could make it more difficult for carmax.com to attract traffic.  These companies could also make it more difficult for CarMax to otherwise market its vehicles online. The increasing use of digital and online tools to facilitate consumers’ sales or trade-ins of their current vehicles could have a material adverse effect on our ability to source vehicles through our appraisal process, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our vehicle acquisition costs and results of operations.  For example, online appraisal tools are available to consumers that generate offers and facilitate purchases by dealers other than CarMax. In addition, there are companies that sell software and data solutions to new and used car dealers to enable those dealers to, among other things, more efficiently source and price inventory.  Although these companies do not compete with CarMax, the increasing use of such products by dealers who compete with CarMax could reduce the relative competitive advantage of CarMax’s internally developed proprietary systems. If we fail to respond effectively to competitive pressures or to changes in the used vehicle marketplace, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations. CAF Competition. Our CAF segment is subject to competition from various financial institutions, including banks and credit unions, which provide vehicle financing to consumers.  If we were unable to continue providing competitive finance offers to our customers through CAF, it could result in a greater percentage of sales financed through our third-party finance providers, which are generally less profitable to CarMax, or through other outside financing sources.  Moreover, if CAF competitors are able to attract potential customers before they visit CarMax, whether through competitive finance offers or ease of customer experience, they may be directed to retail options other than CarMax.  Accordingly, if CAF was unable to continue making competitive finance offers to our customers, or our finance competitors are able to successfully attract and redirect a disproportionate number of our potential customers, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations. Evolving Marketplace. The marketplace for used vehicles may be impacted by the significant, and likely accelerating, changes to the broader automotive industry.  The COVID-19 pandemic has likely accelerated the consumer trend of buying a car online, sight unseen.  Technological changes, including the development of autonomous vehicles, new products and services, new business models and new methods of travel could reduce automotive retail demand or disrupt our current business model.  If we 13 fail to respond effectively to the evolving marketplace, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations. The automotive retail industry in general and our business in particular are sensitive to economic conditions.  These conditions could adversely affect our business, sales, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to national and regional U.S. economic conditions.  These conditions include, but are not limited to, recession, inflation, interest rates, unemployment levels, the state of the housing market, gasoline prices, consumer credit availability, consumer credit delinquency and loss rates, personal discretionary spending levels, and consumer sentiment about the economy in general.  These conditions and the economy in general could be affected by significant national or international events such as a global health crisis, like COVID-19, and acts of terrorism.  When these economic conditions worsen or stagnate, it can have a material adverse effect on consumer demand for vehicles generally, demand from particular consumer categories or demand for particular vehicle types.  It can also negatively impact availability of credit to finance vehicle purchases for all or certain categories of consumers.  This could result in lower sales, decreased margins on units sold, and decreased profits for our CAF segment.  Worsening or stagnating economic conditions can also have a material adverse effect on the supply of late-model used vehicles, as automotive manufacturers produce fewer new vehicles and consumers retain their current vehicles for longer periods of time.  This could result in increased costs to acquire used vehicle inventory and decreased margins on units sold. Any significant change or deterioration in economic conditions, including as a result of COVID-19, could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales, results of operations and financial condition. Our business is dependent upon capital to operate, fund growth and support the activities of our CAF segment.  Changes in capital and credit markets could adversely affect our business, sales, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in the availability or cost of capital and working capital financing, including the long-term financing to support the expansion of our store base and sales growth in existing stores, could adversely affect sales, operating strategies and store growth.  Although, in recent years, internally generated cash flows have been sufficient to maintain our operations and fund our growth, there can be no assurance that we will continue to generate sufficient cash for these purposes.  Failure to do so—or our decision to put our cash to other uses—would make us more dependent on external sources of financing to fund our growth. Changes in the availability or cost of the long-term financing to support the origination of auto loans receivable through CAF could adversely affect sales and results of operations.  We use a securitization program to fund the majority of the auto loans receivable originated by CAF.  Changes in the condition of the asset-backed securitization market could lead us to incur higher costs to access funds in this market or require us to seek alternative means to finance CAF’s loan originations.  In the event that this market ceased to exist and there were no immediate alternative funding sources available, we might be forced to curtail our lending practices for some period of time.  The impact of reducing or curtailing CAF’s loan originations could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations. Our revolving credit facility, term loan, senior unsecured notes and certain securitization and sale-leaseback agreements contain covenants and performance triggers.  Any failure to comply with these covenants or performance triggers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets could adversely affect our ability to draw on our revolving credit facility.  If our ability to secure funds from the facility were significantly impaired, our access to working capital would be impacted, our ability to maintain appropriate inventory levels could be affected and these conditions—especially if coupled with a failure to generate significant cash flows—could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales, results of operations and financial condition. CarMax was founded on the fundamental principle of integrity.  Failure to maintain a reputation of integrity and to otherwise maintain and enhance our brand could adversely affect our business, sales and results of operations. Our reputation as a company that is founded on the fundamental principle of integrity is critical to our success.  Our reputation as a retailer offering competitive, no-haggle prices, a broad selection of CarMax Quality Certified used vehicles and superior customer service is also critical to our success.  If we fail to maintain the high standards on which our reputation is built, or if an event occurs that damages this reputation, it could adversely affect consumer demand and have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations.  Such an event could include an isolated incident at a single store, particularly if such incident results in adverse publicity, governmental investigations, or litigation and could involve, among other things, our 14 sales process, our provision of financing, our reconditioning process, or our treatment of customers.  Even the perception of a decrease in the quality of our brand could impact results. The use of social media increases the speed with which information and opinions can be shared and thus the speed with which reputation can be affected.  We monitor social media and attempt to address customer concerns, provide accurate information and protect our reputation, but there can be no guarantee that our efforts will succeed.  If we fail to correct or mitigate misinformation or negative information, including information spread through social media or traditional media channels, about the vehicles we offer, our customer experience, or any aspect of our brand, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations. Our failure to realize the benefits associated with our omni-channel initiatives could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations. During the second quarter of fiscal 2021, we completed the rollout of our omni-channel platform.  We have made a considerable investment in our omni-channel platform and a failure to capture the benefits that we expect from this rollout could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations.  We must anticipate and meet our customers’ expectations in an evolving retail industry.  Our business, sales and results of operations may be negatively affected if we fail to provide a high quality and consistent customer experience, regardless of sales channel, if our omni-channel platform does not meet customer expectations, or if we are unable to attract, retain and manage the personnel at various levels who have the necessary skills and experience we need to implement our omni-channel initiatives. Our failure to manage our growth and the related challenges could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations. Our growth is dependent on the success of our omni-channel platform as well as on opening stores in new and existing markets and continued sales growth in our existing stores.  The continued enhancement of our omni-channel model and the expansion of our store base place significant demands on our management team, our associates and our information systems.  If we fail to effectively or efficiently manage our growth, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations.  Sales growth in our existing stores requires that we continue to effectively execute our business strategies and implement new and ongoing initiatives to elevate the experience of our customers.  See the risk factor above titled “ Our failure to realize the benefits associated with our omni-channel initiatives could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations ” for more discussion of this risk.  The expansion of our store base and implementation of new initiatives also requires us to recruit and retain the associates necessary to support that expansion.  See the risk factor above titled “ Our success depends upon the continued contributions of our associates ” for discussion of this risk.  The expansion of our store base also requires real estate.  Our inability to acquire or lease suitable real estate at favorable terms could limit our expansion and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our success depends upon the continued contributions of our associates. Our associates are the driving force behind our success.  We believe that one of the things that distinguishes CarMax is a culture centered on valuing our associates.  A failure to maintain our culture, in response to COVID-19 or in response to some other crisis, could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations. In addition, managing our response to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic as well as our strategic initiatives require management, employees and contractors to adapt and learn new skills and capabilities.  A failure to maintain an adaptable and responsive culture or to continue developing and retaining the associates that drive our success could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations. The spread of COVID-19, especially in the early half of fiscal 2021, caused us to modify our business practices, including adopting measures such as hiring freezes, employee furloughs and reduction in pay for certain officers.  We have subsequently lifted these measures, but as the pandemic continues or potentially worsens, we may have to adopt similar measures in the future that may affect our ability to maintain positive associate relations.  If we are unable to maintain positive relations, or if, despite our efforts, we become subject to successful unionization efforts, it could increase costs, limit our ability to respond to competitive threats and have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations. Our response to COVID-19 and our ongoing success also depend upon the continued contributions of our store, region and corporate management teams.  Consequently, the loss of the services of any of these associates could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations.  In addition, an inability to build our management bench strength to support store growth could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations. 15 Our business is sensitive to changes in the prices of new and used vehicles. Any significant changes in retail prices for new and used vehicles could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations.  For example, if retail prices for used vehicles rise relative to retail prices for new vehicles, it could make buying a new vehicle more attractive to our customers than buying a used vehicle, which could have a material adverse effect on sales and results of operations and could result in decreased used margins.  Manufacturer incentives could contribute to narrowing this price gap.  In addition, any significant changes in wholesale prices for used vehicles could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations by reducing wholesale margins. We may experience greater credit losses in CAF’s portfolio of auto loans receivable than anticipated. We are exposed to the risk that our customers who finance their purchases through CAF will be unable or unwilling to repay their loans according to their terms and that the vehicle collateral securing the payment of their loans may not be sufficient to ensure full repayment.  Credit losses are inherent in CAF’s business and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We make various assumptions and judgments about CAF’s portfolio of auto loans receivable and provide an allowance for loan losses based on a number of factors.  Although management will establish an allowance for loan losses it believes is appropriate, this allowance may not be adequate.  For example, when economic conditions deteriorate unexpectedly, such as in connection with the initial COVID-19 outbreak, additional loan losses not incorporated in the existing allowance for loan losses may occur.  In addition, as the impact of COVID-19 continues, our allowance for loan losses may prove insufficient.  Losses in excess of the existing allowance for loan losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our business is dependent upon access to vehicle inventory.  A failure to expeditiously liquidate that inventory—or obstacles to acquiring inventory—whether because of supply, competition, or other factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations. Used vehicle inventory is subject to depreciation risk.  Accordingly, if we develop excess inventory, the inability to liquidate such inventory at prices that allow us to meet margin targets or to recover our costs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. A reduction in the availability of, or access to, sources of inventory also could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations. We source a significant percentage of our vehicles through our appraisal process, which includes our online instant appraisal offers, and these vehicles are generally more profitable for CarMax.  Accordingly, if we fail to adjust appraisal offers to stay in line with broader market trade-in offer trends, or fail to recognize those trends, it could adversely affect our ability to acquire inventory.  It could also force us to purchase a greater percentage of our inventory from third-party auctions, which is generally less profitable for CarMax.  Our ability to source vehicles through our appraisal process could also be affected by competition, both from new and used car dealers directly and through third parties driving appraisal traffic to those dealers.  See the risk factor above titled “ We operate in a highly competitive industry ” for discussion of this risk.  Our ability to source vehicles from third-party auctions could be affected by an increase in the number of closed auctions that are open only to new car dealers who have franchise relationships with automotive manufacturers. Our failure to realize the benefits associated with our strategic investments, including potential acquisitions, could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations and we may incur impairment losses on our strategic investments in equity securities. From time to time, CarMax makes strategic investments, including acquisitions, and we currently hold non-controlling equity investments in several companies.  We may encounter difficulties in managing our strategic investments and in assimilating new capabilities or acquisitions to meet the future needs of our business.  Furthermore, we may not realize all the anticipated benefits of these investments, or the realized benefits may be significantly delayed.  While our evaluation of any potential transaction includes business, legal, and financial due diligence with the goal of identifying and evaluating the material risks involved, our due diligence reviews may not identify all of the issues necessary to accurately estimate the cost and potential benefits and risks of a particular investment. Additionally, under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), if any investment’s fair value declines below its carrying value, we will need to record an impairment loss in the applicable fiscal period.  As a result, we may incur expenses 16 related to the impairment of existing or future equity investments.  Any such impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on third-party finance providers to finance a significant portion of our customers’ vehicle purchases.  Accordingly, our sales and results of operations are partially dependent on the actions of these third parties. We provide financing to qualified customers through CAF and a number of third-party finance providers.  If one or more of these third-party providers cease to provide financing to our customers, provide financing to fewer customers or no longer provide financing on competitive terms, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations.  Additionally, if we were unable to replace the current third-party providers upon the occurrence of one or more of the foregoing events, it could also have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations. We rely on third-party providers to supply EPP products to our customers.  Accordingly, our sales and results of operations are partially dependent on the actions of these third-parties. We receive revenue for selling EPP products on behalf of unrelated third-parties, who are the primary obligors.  If one or more of these third-party providers cease to provide EPP products, make changes to their products or no longer provide their products on competitive terms, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations. Additionally, if we were unable to replace the current third-party providers upon the occurrence of one or more of the foregoing events, it could also have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations. We rely on third-party vendors for key components of our business. Many components of our business, including data management, key operational processes and critical customer systems are provided by third parties.  We carefully select our third-party vendors, but we do not control their actions.  If our vendors fail to perform as we expect, our operations and reputation could suffer if the failure harms the vendors’ ability to serve us and our customers.  One or more of these third-party vendors may experience financial distress, staffing shortages or liquidity challenges, file for bankruptcy protection, go out of business, or suffer disruptions in their business due to the COVID-19 outbreak.  The use of third-party vendors represents an unavoidable inherent risk to our company that could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations. Our business is sensitive to conditions affecting automotive manufacturers, including manufacturer recalls. Adverse conditions affecting one or more automotive manufacturers could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations and could impact the supply of vehicles, including the supply of late-model used vehicles.  In addition, manufacturer recalls are a common occurrence.  Because we do not have manufacturer authorization to complete recall-related repairs, some vehicles we sell may have unrepaired safety recalls.  Such recalls, and our lack of authorization to make recall-related repairs, could adversely affect used vehicle sales or valuations, could cause us to temporarily remove vehicles from inventory, could force us to incur increased costs and could expose us to litigation and adverse publicity related to the sale of recalled vehicles, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations. Our results of operations and financial condition are subject to management’s accounting judgments and estimates, as well as changes in accounting policies. The preparation of our financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions affecting the reported amounts of CarMax’s assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and earnings. If these estimates or assumptions are incorrect, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. We have identified several accounting policies as being “critical” to the fair presentation of our financial condition and results of operations because they involve major aspects of our business and require us to make judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain.  These policies are described in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and the notes to consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. The implementation of new accounting requirements or other changes to GAAP could have a material adverse effect on our reported results of operations and financial condition. 17 We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could adversely affect our business, sales, results of operations and financial condition. Protecting our intellectual property (including patents, trademarks, copyrights, confidential information and trade secrets) is integral to our business.  The failure to protect our intellectual property, including from unauthorized uses, can erode consumer trust and our brand value and have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business is sensitive to weather events. The occurrence of severe weather events, such as rain, hail, snow, wind, storms, hurricanes, extended periods of unusually cold weather or natural disasters, could cause store closures or affect the timing of consumer demand, either of which could adversely affect consumer traffic and could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations in a given period. We are subject to local conditions in the geographic areas in which we are concentrated. Our performance is subject to local economic, competitive and other conditions prevailing in geographic areas where we operate.  Since a large portion of our sales is generated in the Southeastern U.S., California, Texas and Washington, D.C./Baltimore, our results of operations depend substantially on general economic conditions and consumer spending habits in these markets.  In the event that any of these geographic areas experience a downturn in economic conditions, or are particularly affected by COVID-19 and related government actions taken to reduce the spread of the virus, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations. TECHNOLOGY AND DATA PRIVACY RISKS We collect sensitive confidential information from our customers.  A breach of this confidentiality, whether due to a cybersecurity or other incident, could result in harm to our customers and damage to our brand. We collect, process and retain sensitive and confidential customer information in the normal course of business and may share that information with our third-party service providers.  This information includes the information customers provide when purchasing a vehicle and applying for vehicle financing.  We also collect, process and retain sensitive and confidential associate information in the normal course of business and may share that information with our third-party service providers.  Although we have taken measures designed to safeguard such information and have received assurances from our third-party providers, our facilities and systems, and those of third-party providers, could be vulnerable to external or internal security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming or human errors or other similar events.  Numerous national retailers have disclosed security breaches involving sophisticated cyber-attacks that were not recognized or detected until after such retailers had been affected, notwithstanding the preventive measures such retailers had in place.  Any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential customer or associate information, whether experienced by us or by our third-party service providers, and whether due to an external cybersecurity incident, a programming error, or other cause, could damage our reputation, expose us to mitigation costs and the risks of private litigation and government enforcement, disrupt our business and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations.  In addition, our failure to respond quickly and appropriately to such a security breach could exacerbate the consequences of the breach. We rely on sophisticated information systems to run our business.  The failure of these systems, or the inability to enhance our capabilities, could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations. Our business is dependent upon the integrity and efficient operation of our information systems.  In particular, we rely on our information systems to manage sales, inventory, our customer-facing websites and applications (carmax.com, CarMax mobile apps, and carmaxauctions.com), consumer financing and customer information.  The failure of these systems to perform as designed, the failure to maintain or update these systems as necessary, or the inability to enhance our information technology capabilities, could disrupt our business operations and have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. Despite our ongoing efforts to maintain and enhance the integrity and security of these systems, we could be subjected to attacks by hackers, including denial-of-service attacks directed at our websites or other system breaches or malfunctions due to associate error or misconduct or other disruptions.  Such incidents could disrupt our business and have a material adverse effect on sales and results of operations.  See the risk factor above titled “ We collect sensitive confidential information from our customers ” for the risks associated with a breach of confidential customer or associate information. 18 REGULATORY AND LITIGATION RISKS We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to a wide range of federal, state and local laws and regulations.  Changes in these laws and regulations, or our failure to comply, could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to a wide range of federal, state and local laws and regulations, as well as changes in these laws and regulations and the manner in which they are interpreted or applied.  Our sale of used vehicles is subject to state and local licensing requirements, federal and state laws regulating vehicle advertising, and state laws regulating vehicle sales and service.  Our provision of vehicle financing is subject to federal and state laws regulating the provision of consumer finance.  Our facilities and business operations are subject to laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and health and safety.  In addition to these laws and regulations that apply specifically to our business, we are also subject to laws and regulations affecting public companies and large employers generally, including privacy laws and federal employment practices, securities and tax laws.  For additional discussion of these laws and regulations, see the section of this Form 10-K titled “ Business – Laws and Regulations. ” The violation of any of these laws or regulations could result in administrative, civil or criminal penalties or in a cease-and-desist order against our business operations, any of which could damage our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations.  We have incurred and will continue to incur capital and operating expenses and other costs to comply with these laws and regulations. We are subject to various legal proceedings.  If the outcomes of these proceedings are adverse to CarMax, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to various litigation matters from time to time, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  Claims arising out of actual or alleged violations of law could be asserted against us by individuals, either individually or through class actions, or by governmental entities in civil or criminal investigations and proceedings.  These claims could be asserted under a variety of laws including, but not limited to, consumer finance laws, consumer protection laws, intellectual property laws, privacy laws, labor and employment laws, securities laws and employee benefit laws.  These actions could expose us to adverse publicity and to substantial monetary damages and legal defense costs, injunctive relief and criminal and civil fines and penalties including, but not limited to, suspension or revocation of licenses to conduct business. GENERAL RISKS The market price of our common stock may be volatile and could expose us to securities class action litigation. The price of our common stock may be subject to wide fluctuations based upon our operating results, general economic and market conditions, general trends and prospects for our industry, announcements by our competitors and other factors.  In addition, the market price of our common stock may also be affected by whether we meet analysts’ expectations.  Failure to meet such expectations could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock.  Following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation is more likely.  If litigation were instituted against us, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”) is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our audited consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes presented in Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.  Note references are to the notes to consolidated financial statements included in Item 8.  Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year’s presentation.  All references to net earnings per share are to diluted net earnings per share.  Amounts and percentages may not total due to rounding. OVERVIEW See Part I, Item 1 for a detailed description and discussion of the company’s business. CarMax is the nation’s largest and most profitable retailer of used vehicles.  We operate in two reportable segments:  CarMax Sales Operations and CarMax Auto Finance (“CAF”).  Our CarMax Sales Operations segment consists of all aspects of our auto merchandising and service operations, excluding financing provided by CAF.  Our CAF segment consists solely of our own finance operation that provides financing to customers buying retail vehicles from CarMax. CarMax Sales Operations Our sales operations segment consists of retail sales of used vehicles and related products and services, such as wholesale vehicle sales; the sale of extended protection plan (“EPP”) products, which include extended service plans (“ESPs”) and guaranteed asset protection (“GAP”); and vehicle repair service.  We offer competitive, no-haggle prices; a broad selection of CarMax Quality Certified used vehicles; value-added EPP products; and superior customer service.  Our omni-channel platform, which gives us the largest addressable market in the used car industry, empowers customers to buy a car on their terms – online, in-store or a seamless combination of both.  Customers can choose to complete the car-buying experience in-person at one of our stores; or buy the car online and receive delivery through contactless curbside pickup, available nationwide, or home delivery, available to most customers. Our customers finance the majority of the retail vehicles purchased from us, and availability of on-the-spot financing is a critical component of the sales process.  We provide financing to qualified retail customers through CAF and our arrangements with industry-leading third-party finance providers.  All of the finance offers, whether by CAF or our third-party providers, are backed by a 3-day payoff option. As of February 28, 2021, we operated 220 used car stores in 106 U.S. television markets. As of that date, wholesale auctions previously held at 74 of our used car stores were being conducted virtually.  During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021, we sold the Toyota new car franchise located in Laurel, MD, resulting in 1 new car franchise remaining at February 28, 2021. CarMax Auto Finance In addition to third-party finance providers, we provide vehicle financing through CAF, which offers financing solely to customers buying retail vehicles from CarMax.  CAF allows us to manage our reliance on third-party finance providers and to leverage knowledge of our business to provide qualifying customers a competitive financing option.  As a result, we believe CAF enables us to capture additional profits, cash flows and sales.  CAF income primarily reflects the interest and fee income generated by the auto loans receivable less the interest expense associated with the debt issued to fund these receivables, a provision for estimated loan losses and direct expenses.  CAF income does not include any allocation of indirect costs.  After the effect of 3-day payoffs and vehicle returns, CAF financed 42.5% of our retail used vehicle unit sales in fiscal 2021.  As of February 28, 2021, CAF serviced approximately 1,054,000 customer accounts in its $13.85 billion portfolio of managed receivables. Management regularly analyzes CAF’s operating results by assessing the competitiveness of our consumer offer, profitability, the performance of the auto loans receivable, including trends in credit losses and delinquencies, and CAF direct expenses. 26 Revenues and Profitability Our primary sources of revenue and gross profit from CarMax Sales Operations for fiscal 2021 are as follows: A high-level summary of our financial results from fiscal 2021 compared with fiscal 2020 is as follows: Net earnings per diluted share during fiscal 2021 included a one-time benefit of $0.19 in connection with our receipt of settlement proceeds in April 2020 related to a previously disclosed class action lawsuit. Refer to “Results of Operations” for further details on our revenues and profitability.  A discussion regarding Results of Operations and Financial Condition for fiscal 2020 as compared to fiscal 2019 is included in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 29, 2020, filed with the SEC on April 21, 2020. Impact of COVID-19 In March 2020, the World Health Organization declared the outbreak of the novel coronavirus (“COVID-19”) as a global pandemic.  In the following weeks, many U.S. states and localities issued shelter-in-place orders impacting the operations of our stores and consumer demand.  We followed mandates from public health officials and government agencies, including implementation of enhanced cleaning measures and social distancing guidelines and, in many localities, the closing of stores and wholesale auctions.  As a result of these store closures and lower consumer demand, we announced in April 2020 that more than 15,000 associates had been placed on furlough.  We provided associates with at least 14 days of pay continuity upon store 27 closure or quarantine, along with continuing medical benefits for associates who were furloughed.  During the second quarter of fiscal 2021, we began to call back associates from furlough and by the end of July 2020, we no longer had any associates on furlough.  During the first half of fiscal 2021, we spent approximately $30 million supporting associates impacted by COVID-19, store closures and furloughs. We have implemented robust plans to reduce the risk of exposure and transmission of the virus in our stores and continue to follow the mandates of public health officials and government agencies.  We also launched contactless curbside pickup nationwide to better serve our customers in alignment with enhanced safety practices.  In addition, we quickly shifted our wholesale business from in-person to online auctions.  During the second quarter of fiscal 2021, we completed the rollout of our omni-channel platform, giving us the largest addressable market in the used car industry.  This offering allows customers to seamlessly do as much, or as little, online and in-person as they prefer. Our fiscal 2021 results were significantly impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. In particular retail sales were negatively impacted by store closures and occupancy restrictions in response to COVID-19, primarily during the first quarter.  For further details of these impacts, refer to “Results of Operations.” Beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2021, as the pandemic escalated, our CAF business saw an increase in delinquencies and greater demand for payment extensions.  In response, we implemented a variety of measures to support our customers through this difficult time and to maximize the long-term collectability of the portfolio.  This included temporarily suspending repossessions, waiving late fees, and providing loan payment extensions where appropriate.  In addition to pausing our in-house Tier 3 lending, we also made temporary underwriting adjustments focused on preserving CAF's high-quality portfolio and tested certain loan routing to our third-party providers. Payment extensions spiked in April and have declined significantly since then as customers have exhibited the ability and willingness to pay.  During fiscal 2021, delinquency rates were lower year-over-year.  During the back half of the second quarter of fiscal 2021, we ceased CAF's underwriting adjustments noted above, and in September we resumed our in-house Tier 3 lending. During fiscal 2021, new legislation was enacted to provide relief to businesses in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, including the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (“CARES Act”) and the Taxpayer Certainty and Disaster Tax Relief Act.  On March 6, 2021 the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 was enacted.  We have evaluated the tax provisions of these acts as well as new IRS guidance issued.  While the most significant impacts to the company include the employee retention tax credit and payroll tax deferral provisions of the CARES Act, we do not expect recent IRS guidance or the legislation to have a material impact on our results of operations. The ongoing crisis of COVID-19 continues to evolve and cause uncertainty.  At the end of fiscal 2021, states and localities were in the midst of a vaccine distribution program; however, the continued spread and impact of COVID-19 persist.  As such, we are unable to determine the full impact that social distancing protocols, the availability and efficacy of vaccines, or potential subsequent outbreaks, will ultimately have on our operations or consumer demand.  We continue to actively monitor developments that may cause us to take further actions that alter our business operations as may be required by federal, state or local authorities or that we determine are in the best interests of our associates, customers and shareholders. Liquidity Our primary ongoing sources of liquidity include funds provided by operations, proceeds from non-recourse funding vehicles, and borrowings under our revolving credit facility or through other financing sources.  In addition to funding our operations, this liquidity was used to fund the repurchase of common stock under our share repurchase program and our store growth. As previously disclosed, in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, we took certain measures in the first quarter of fiscal 2021 to enhance our liquidity position and provide additional financial flexibility, including drawing down additional funds on our revolving credit facility, pausing our stock repurchase program, pausing our store expansion strategy and remodels and actively aligning operating expenses to the current state of the business, including the previously discussed furlough.  We strengthened our overall financial position by selling through inventory and quickly aligning costs to lower sales volumes. We have continued to adjust inventory levels and operating expenses throughout the pandemic to align with sales trends.  During the third quarter, we fully paid down the outstanding balance on our revolving credit facility and resumed our store expansion strategy and share repurchase program.  Given the turnaround in our business, the strength of the credit markets and our solid balance sheet, we believe we have the appropriate liquidity, access to capital and financial strength to support our operations and continue investing in our omni and digital initiatives as well as other strategic initiatives for the foreseeable future. 28 Strategic Update and Future Outlook The COVID-19 pandemic has created an unprecedented and challenging time.  As discussed above, we have taken several steps to ensure a strong liquidity position and enable our stores to operate amidst the current health and safety concerns while continuing to invest in our strategic priorities.  We will continue to monitor the ongoing effects of the pandemic and make any further decisions necessary to position the company for a strong recovery as we emerge from this crisis. We recognize the current environment has accelerated a shift in consumer buying behavior.  Customers are seeking safety, personalization and convenience in how they shop for and buy a vehicle more than ever.  Our omni-channel platform empowers customers to buy a car on their own terms, whether completely from home, in-store or through a seamlessly integrated combination of online and in-store experiences.  Our diversified business model, combined with our emerging omni-channel experience, is a unique advantage in the used car industry that firmly positions us to continue growing our market share while creating shareholder value over the long-term.  We completed our omni-channel rollout in the second quarter of fiscal 2021.  We now have a common platform across all of CarMax that leverages our scale, nationwide footprint and infrastructure and empowers our customers to buy a vehicle on their terms. With the completion of our omni-channel rollout, we are now focusing our efforts on optimizing and enhancing the customer experience.  In particular, we are focused on enabling self-service for all components of the sale.  In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021, we made significant progress in this area, and at the end of the quarter, approximately 25% of our customers were eligible to buy a vehicle online independently if they choose, up significantly from the third quarter.  We are on track for most of our customers to have the ability to buy a vehicle online independently if they choose by the middle of fiscal 2022.  Additionally, approximately 75% of our customers advanced their transaction digitally during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021, with approximately 5% buying the vehicle online. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021, we completed the nationwide rollout of our online instant appraisal offer, which quickly provides customers an offer on their vehicle.  Early response to this offering has been strong, positioning us to become the largest online buyer of used vehicles from consumers and strengthening our leadership position as the largest used vehicle buyer from consumers.  We believe that our online appraisal offers provide us with the potential to approach or exceed the high end of our historical self-sufficiency rate.  We also introduced our Love Your Car Guarantee in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021.  This guarantee allows customers to take a 24-hour test drive before committing to purchase and also offers a 30-day/1,500 mile money-back guarantee and a 90-day/4,000-mile limited warranty.  At the end of the fourth quarter, we also launched a “penny perfect” transactable financing offer in our online checkout process.  With this enhancement, customers can apply and accept finance offers without needing the assistance of an associate to submit a credit application over the phone or in store.  We plan to make this available to all customers in the first quarter of fiscal 2022. We first launched our omni-channel platform in the Atlanta market in December 2018.  Now, two years later after continued testing on pricing and advertising, our omni-channel platform is delivering sustained growth in this competitive market.  The Atlanta market continues to outperform the company, maintaining its market share in calendar 2020 despite pressure from COVID-19.  During the last five months of calendar 2020, our market share in Atlanta increased 13.8%.  Over the past two years, our market share in Atlanta has increased 10.9%. Our strategic investments in the near term will focus on our customer experience, vehicle acquisition and marketing.  As we continue enhancing our online experience and offerings, we believe it is important to educate customers on our omni-channel platform and to differentiate and elevate our brand.  During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021, we introduced the next phase of our national multi-media marketing campaign that began last year.  As a result, marketing spend increased year-over-year.  Throughout the quarter, we set records every week for web visits, reaching more than 8 million weekly visits by the end of February 2021.  After the campaign launch, web traffic and Google query volumes were both up approximately 25% compared with the months prior to launch.  As we head into fiscal 2022, we expect our marketing spend to remain elevated with similar per unit expenses as experienced in the second half of fiscal 2021.  We believe we are well positioned to gain market share through the promotion of our omni-channel platform and new product offerings such as our Love Your Car Guarantee. Leveraging the enhanced omni-channel platform, advertising campaign and experience in our Atlanta market discussed above, we implemented pricing and marketing tests in select markets during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021 in an effort to proactively drive sales volume.  Early results for these tests were positive, and we plan to continue these tests into the first quarter of fiscal 2022 while also monitoring macroeconomic factors.  We expect our gross profit per used unit to remain above $2,000 for the quarter. While these tests confirm what we have historically seen regarding price elasticity, several factors have changed resulting in a stronger flow through from the increased sales and thereby driving profitability.  These factors include: the high level of profitability for our CAF originations, a lower variable cost structure resulting from our continued transition to CECs and the favorable changes to our third-party finance providers fee structure. 29 In March 2021, we signed a definitive agreement to acquire Edmunds, one of the most well established and trusted online guides for automotive information and a recognized industry leader in digital car shopping innovations.  With this acquisition, CarMax will enhance its digital capabilities and further strengthen its role and reach across the used auto ecosystem while adding exceptional technology and creative talent.  Edmunds will continue to operate independently and will remain focused on delivering confidence to consumers and excellent value to its dealer and OEM clients.  Additionally, this acquisition will allow both businesses to accelerate their respective capabilities to deliver an enhanced digital experience to their customers by leveraging Edmunds’ compelling content and technology, our unparalleled national scale and infrastructure, and the combined talent of both businesses.  We expect to pay for the transaction with a combination of cash and equity.  The transaction is subject to certain conditions to close typical for a transaction of this nature.  We anticipate this transaction will close in June 2021 and expect Edmunds’ financial results to have an immaterial impact to CarMax’s earnings per share in fiscal 2022, with potential for significant shareholder value creation over the longer term. Our long-term strategy continues to be focused on completing the rollout of our retail concept and improving and enhancing our omni-channel experience, with the goal of increasing our share of used vehicle unit sales in each of the markets in which we operate.  At the same time, we are identifying and investing in new initiatives that we believe will contribute to earnings growth.  We believe, over the long term, used vehicle unit sales are the primary driver for earnings growth.  We also believe increased used vehicle unit sales will drive increased sales of wholesale vehicles and ancillary products and, over time, increased CAF income. In order to execute our long-term strategy, we plan to continue to invest in various strategic initiatives to increase innovation, specifically with regards to customer-facing and customer-enabling technologies, as well as marketing.  We are also focused on ensuring we are efficient in our spend, targeting specific areas where we expect to achieve more efficiencies and leverage.  This includes our CECs, which are maturing and becoming more efficient and effective.  This past year our CECs were more efficient than the prior year and we expect this trend to accelerate in fiscal 2022.  Our use of data is a core component of these initiatives and continues to be a strategic asset for us as we leverage data to enhance the customer experience and increase operational efficiencies.  For fiscal 2022, we would expect to leverage our SG&A expenses when comparable store used unit sales growth is in the range of 5% to 8% on a two-year stacked basis.  In periods of investment, like fiscal 2022, we will need to be at the higher end of this two-year range to lever against fiscal 2021. In calendar 2020, we estimate we sold approximately 4.3% of the age 0- to 10-year old vehicles sold in the current comparable store markets in which we operate, a decline from 4.7% in 2019.  We had strong momentum entering the current year and were gaining significant market share up until the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic during the first quarter of fiscal 2021.  As markets re-opened and our omni-channel platform launched nationwide, we began gaining market share again, leading to market share gains over the last five months of calendar 2020.  On a nationwide basis, we estimate we sold approximately 3.5% of the age 0- to 10-year old vehicles sold.  Our strategy to increase our market share includes focusing on: • Delivering a customer-driven, omni-channel buying and selling experience that is a unique and powerful integration of our in-store and online capabilities. • Opening stores in new markets and expanding our presence in existing markets. • Hiring and developing an engaged and skilled workforce. • Improving efficiency in our stores and our logistics operations to reduce waste. • Leveraging data and advanced analytics to continuously improve the customer experience as well as our processes and systems. As of February 28, 2021, we had used car stores located in 106 television markets, which covered approximately 77% of the U.S. population.  The format and operating models utilized in our stores are continuously evaluated and may evolve over time based upon market and consumer expectations.  We opened 4 stores in fiscal 2021.  In response to COVID-19, we paused our store expansion strategy in the first quarter of fiscal 2021.  We have resumed new store growth and anticipate opening ten stores during fiscal 2022. While we execute both our short- and long-term strategy, there are trends and factors that could impact our strategic approach or our results in the short and medium term.  For additional information about risks and uncertainties facing our company, see “Risk Factors,” included in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Our results of operations and financial condition as reflected in the consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.  Preparation of financial statements requires management to 30 make estimates and assumptions affecting the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and the disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities.  We use our historical experience and other relevant factors when developing our estimates and assumptions.  We regularly evaluate these estimates and assumptions.  Note 1 includes a discussion of significant accounting policies.  The accounting policies discussed below are the ones we consider critical to an understanding of our consolidated financial statements because their application places the most significant demands on our judgment.  Our financial results might have been different if different assumptions had been used or other conditions had prevailed. Financing and Securitization Transactions We maintain a revolving funding program composed of three warehouse facilities (“warehouse facilities”) that we use to fund auto loans receivable originated by CAF.  We typically elect to fund these receivables through an asset-backed term funding transaction, such as a term securitization or alternative funding arrangement, at a later date.  We recognize transfers of auto loans receivable into the warehouse facilities and asset-backed term funding transactions, including term securitizations (together, “non-recourse funding vehicles”), as secured borrowings, which result in recording the auto loans receivable and the related non-recourse notes payable on our consolidated balance sheets.  CAF income included in the consolidated statements of earnings primarily reflects the interest and fee income generated by the auto loans receivable less the interest expense associated with the debt issued to fund these receivables, a provision for estimated loan losses and direct CAF expenses. See Notes 1(F), 1(H) and 4 for additional information on securitizations and auto loans receivable. Allowance for Loan Losses The allowance for loan losses represents the net credit losses expected over the remaining contractual life of our managed receivables.  Because net loss performance can vary substantially over time, estimating net losses requires assumptions about matters that are uncertain. The allowance for loan losses is determined using a net loss timing curve, primarily based on the composition of the portfolio of managed receivables and historical gross loss and recovery trends.  Due to the fact that losses for receivables with less than 18 months of performance history can be volatile, our net loss estimate weights both historical losses by credit grade at origination and actual loss data on the receivables to-date along with forward loss curves, in estimating future performance.  Once the receivables have 18 months of performance history, the net loss estimate reflects actual loss experience of those receivables to date, along with forward loss curves, to predict future performance.  The forward loss curves are constructed using historical performance data and show the average timing of losses over the course of a receivable’s life.  The net loss estimate is calculated by applying the loss rates developed using the methods described above to the amortized cost basis of the managed receivables. The output of the net loss timing curve is adjusted to take into account reasonable and supportable forecasts about the future.  Specifically, the change in U.S. unemployment rates and the National Automobile Dealers Association ( “NADA” ) used vehicle price index are used to predict changes in gross loss and recovery rate, respectively.  An economic adjustment factor, based upon a single macroeconomic scenario, is developed to capture the relationship between changes in these indices and changes in gross loss and recovery rates.  This factor is applied to the output of the net loss timing curve for the reasonable and supportable forecast period of two years. After the end of this two year period, the impact of the economic factor is phased out of the allowance for loan loss calculation on a straight-line basis over a period of 12 months. We periodically consider whether the use of alternative metrics would result in improved model performance and revise the model when appropriate.  We also consider whether qualitative adjustments are necessary for factors not reflected in the quantitative methods but impact the measurement of estimated credit losses.  Such adjustments include the uncertainty of the impacts of recent economic trends on customer behavior.  The change in the allowance for loan losses is recognized through an adjustment to the provision for loan losses. Determining the appropriateness of the allowance for loan losses requires management to exercise judgment about matters that are inherently uncertain, including the timing and distribution of net losses that could materially affect the allowance for loan losses and, therefore, net earnings.  To the extent that actual performance differs from our estimates, additional provision for credit losses may be required that would reduce net earnings.  A 10% change in the estimated loss rates would have changed the allowance for loan losses by approximately $41.1 million as of February 28, 2021. See Notes 1(H) and 4 for additional information on the allowance for loan losses. Revenue Recognition We recognize revenue when the earnings process is complete, generally either at the time of sale to a customer or upon delivery to a customer.  As part of our customer service strategy, we guarantee the retail vehicles we sell with a 30‑day, money-back 31 guarantee.  We record a reserve for estimated returns based on historical experience and trends, and results could be affected if future vehicle returns differ from historical averages. We also sell ESPs and GAP on behalf of unrelated third parties, who are the primary obligors, to customers who purchase a retail vehicle. The ESPs we currently offer on all used vehicles provide coverage up to 60 months (subject to mileage limitations), while GAP covers the customer for the term of their retail installment contract.  We recognize revenue, on a net basis, at the time of sale.  We also record a reserve, or refund liability, for estimated contract cancellations.  The reserve for cancellations is evaluated for each product and is based on forecasted forward cancellation curves utilizing historical experience, recent trends and credit mix of the customer base.  Our risk related to contract cancellations is limited to the revenue that we receive.  Cancellations fluctuate depending on the volume of EPP sales, customer financing default or prepayment rates, and shifts in customer behavior related to changes in the coverage or term of the product.  Results could be affected if actual events differ from our estimates.  A 10% change in the estimated cancellation rates would have changed cancellation reserves by approximately $12.5 million as of February 28, 2021.  See Note 8 for additional information on cancellation reserves. We are contractually entitled to receive profit-sharing revenues based on the performance of the ESPs administered by third parties.  These revenues are a form of variable consideration included in EPP revenues to the extent that it is probable that it will not result in a significant revenue reversal. An estimate of the amount to which we expect to be entitled, subject to various constraints, is recognized upon satisfying the performance obligation of selling the ESP. These constraints include factors that are outside of the company’s influence or control and the length of time until settlement. We apply the expected value method, utilizing historical claims and cancellation data from CarMax customers, as well as external data and other qualitative assumptions. This estimate is reassessed each reporting period with changes reflected in other sales and revenues on our consolidated statements of earnings and other assets on our consolidated balance sheets. Customers applying for financing who are not approved or are conditionally approved by CAF are generally evaluated by other third-party finance providers.  These providers generally either pay us or are paid a fixed, pre-negotiated fee per contract.  We recognize these fees at the time of sale. We collect sales taxes and other taxes from customers on behalf of governmental authorities at the time of sale.  These taxes are accounted for on a net basis and are not included in net sales and operating revenues or cost of sales. See Note 2 for additional information on revenue recognition. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS – CARMAX SALES OPERATIONS N ET S ALES AND O PERATING R EVENUES U NIT S ALES 32 A VERAGE S ELLING P RICES C OMPARABLE S TORE U SED V EHICLE S ALES C HANGES Stores are added to the comparable store base beginning in their fourteenth full month of operation. We do not remove renovated stores from our comparable store base.  Comparable store calculations include results for a set of stores that were included in our comparable store base in both the current and corresponding prior year periods. V EHICLE S ALES C HANGES U SED V EHICLE F INANCING P ENETRATION BY C HANNEL (B EFORE THE I MPACT OF 3 - D AY P AYOFFS) (1) Calculated as used vehicle units financed for respective channel as a percentage of total used units sold. (2) Includes CAF’s Tier 3 loan originations, which represent less than 1% of total used units sold. (3) Third-party finance providers who generally pay us a fee or to whom no fee is paid. (4) Third-party finance providers to whom we pay a fee. (5) Represents customers arranging their own financing and customers that do not require financing. C HANGE IN U SED C AR S TORE B ASE During fiscal 2021, we opened 4 stores, all in existing television markets (Tampa, FL; Philadelphia, PA; New Orleans, LA; and Los Angeles, CA). 33 Used Vehicle Sales Fiscal 2021 Versus Fiscal 2020. The 8.5% decrease in used vehicle revenues in fiscal 2021 was primarily due to a 9.7% decrease in used unit sales, partially offset by a 1.3% increase in average retail selling price.  The decrease in used units included an 11.7% decrease in comparable store used unit sales.  This reflected the combined effects of COVID-19 related store closures and restrictions in operations, as well as reduced customer traffic resulting from the economic impact of the pandemic and nationwide shelter-in-place orders.  The increase in average retail selling price reflected higher vehicle acquisition costs driven by market appreciation, partially offset by shifts in the mix of our sales by vehicle age. We experienced negative comparable used unit sales in the first quarter of fiscal 2021, which continued into June when we experienced high single digit negative comparable used unit sales.  The June results were more than offset by mid-single digit positive comparable used unit sales in both July and August, a trend that continued into September.  However, as the election approached and COVID-19 cases surged, which resulted in tightened occupancy restrictions and shelter-in-place orders from state and local governments, we saw demand soften.  As a result, sales trended down in the latter part of the third quarter.  Sales began to accelerate towards the end of December and into January as we launched our new marketing campaign, expanded our pricing tests, introduced new customer offerings and a second round of stimulus checks was issued.  This trend continued until the middle of February when severe winter weather across a large portion of the U.S., delays in tax refunds relative to last year’s timing and a lower inventory position due to COVID-19- and weather-related production constraints negatively impacted retail sales. Comparable used unit sales growth for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021 were also impacted by the extra day for leap day in the prior year. Sales in March 2021 were robust, exceeding 100,000 used units sold for the month and resulting in double-digit used unit and comparable used unit sales growth when compared with a COVID-19 impacted March 2020 and a record March 2019.  During the month, the initial distribution of tax refund and stimulus checks began, weather improved and customers continued to respond favorably to our ongoing strategic investments and growth initiatives. Wholesale Vehicle Sales Vehicles sold at our wholesale auctions are, on average, approximately 10 years old with more than 100,000 miles and are primarily comprised of vehicles purchased through our appraisal process that do not meet our retail standards.  Our wholesale auction prices usually reflect the trends in the general wholesale market for the types of vehicles we sell, although they can also be affected by changes in vehicle mix or the average age, mileage or condition of the vehicles being sold.  Our wholesale auctions were moved to an online format in response to the COVID-19 pandemic and continue to operate completely online. Fiscal 2021 Versus Fiscal 2020. The 6.7% increase in wholesale vehicle revenues in fiscal 2021 was primarily due to a 17.1% increase in average selling price, partially offset by an 8.6% decrease in wholesale unit sales.  The increase in average selling price was primarily due to increased acquisition costs driven by market appreciation.  The decline in wholesale units was largely driven by lower appraisal traffic, which was significantly impacted by COVID-19, partially offset by an increase in our appraisal buy rate.  We achieved a record buy rate in fiscal 2021. Other Sales and Revenues Other sales and revenues include revenue from the sale of ESPs and GAP (collectively reported in EPP revenues, net of a reserve for estimated contract cancellations), net third-party finance fees, and other revenues, which are predominantly comprised of service department and new vehicle sales.  The fees we pay to the Tier 3 providers are reflected as an offset to finance fee revenues received from the Tier 2 providers.  The mix of our retail vehicles financed by CAF, Tier 2 and Tier 3 providers, or customers that arrange their own financing, may vary from quarter to quarter depending on several factors including the credit quality of applicants, changes in providers’ credit decisioning and external market conditions.  Changes in originations by one tier of credit providers may also affect the originations made by providers in other tiers. Fiscal 2021 Versus Fiscal 2020. Other sales and revenues declined 12.7% in fiscal 2021, reflecting decreases in other revenues, including new car and service department sales, and EPP revenues, partially offset by the improvement in net third-party finance fees.  EPP revenues declined 5.6%, largely reflecting the reduction in our used unit sales as discussed above,  partially offset by favorable adjustments to the cancellation reserves and an increase in profit sharing revenue recognized in the current year.  The new car and service department sales declines reflected both store closures and reduced customer traffic in response to COVID-19.  The decline in new car sales was also driven by the divestiture of a franchise in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021.  Net third-party finance fees improved as a result of favorable adjustments in the fee agreements with our Tier 2 and Tier 3 providers made during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021. 34 G ROSS P ROFIT G ROSS P ROFIT P ER U NIT (1) Calculated as category gross profit divided by its respective units sold, except the other and total categories, which are divided by total used units sold. (2) Calculated as a percentage of its respective sales or revenue. Used Vehicle Gross Profit We target a dollar range of gross profit per used unit sold.  The gross profit dollar target for an individual vehicle is based on a variety of factors, including its probability of sale and its mileage relative to its age; however, it is not primarily based on the vehicle’s selling price.  Our ability to quickly adjust appraisal offers to be consistent with the broader market trade-in trends and the pace of our inventory turns reduce our exposure to the inherent continual fluctuation in used vehicle values and contribute to our ability to manage gross profit dollars per unit. We systematically adjust individual vehicle prices based on proprietary pricing algorithms in order to appropriately balance sales trends, inventory turns and gross profit achievement.  Other factors that may influence gross profit include the wholesale and retail vehicle pricing environments, vehicle reconditioning and logistics costs, and the percentage of vehicles sourced directly from consumers through our appraisal process.  Vehicles purchased directly from consumers typically generate more gross profit per unit compared with vehicles purchased at auction or through other channels. Fiscal 2021 Versus Fiscal 2020. Used vehicle gross profit declined 12.7% in fiscal 2021, reflecting the 9.7% decline in total used unit sales as well as the $73 decline in used vehicle gross profit per unit.  During the first quarter of fiscal 2021, our used vehicle gross profit per unit was pressured by pricing adjustments made to better align inventory levels with sales in response to COVID-19.  During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021, our used vehicle gross profit per unit was impacted by pricing tests rolled out in select markets. We believe we can manage to a targeted gross profit per unit dollar range, subject to future changes to our business, pricing strategy or external market conditions.  As noted above, in connection with the improvements and enhancements we are making to our omni-channel experience, we also implemented pricing and marketing tests in select markets during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021.  Early results for these tests were positive and we plan to continue the tests into the first quarter of fiscal 2022 while also monitoring macroeconomic factors.  We continue to expect gross profit per used unit to be above $2,000 during the quarter. Wholesale Vehicle Gross Profit Our wholesale gross profit per unit reflects the demand for older, higher mileage vehicles, which are the mainstay of our auctions, as well as strong dealer attendance and resulting high dealer-to-car ratios at our auctions.  The frequency of our auctions, which are generally held weekly or bi-weekly, minimizes the depreciation risk on these vehicles.  Our ability to adjust appraisal offers in response to the wholesale pricing environment is a key factor that influences wholesale gross profit. Fiscal 2021 Versus Fiscal 2020. Wholesale vehicle gross profit decreased 6.8% in fiscal 2021, driven by the 8.6% decrease in wholesale unit sales, partially offset by a modest increase in wholesale gross profit per unit.  Wholesale gross profit per unit 35 was under significant pressure early in the first quarter of fiscal 2021, reflecting sharp declines in industry wholesale valuations; however, wholesale gross profit per unit had fully recovered by the end of the first quarter.  During the second quarter of fiscal 2021, performance was supported by strong appreciation in the market.  By the end of the second quarter, depreciation had returned to the wholesale market, and steep depreciation continued during the third quarter.  At the beginning of the fourth quarter, industry prices flattened out and began to appreciate through the remainder of the quarter. Other Gross Profit Other gross profit includes profits related to EPP revenues, net third-party finance fees and other revenues. Other revenues are predominantly comprised of service department operations, including used vehicle reconditioning, and new vehicle sales.  We have no cost of sales related to EPP revenues or net third-party finance fees, as these represent revenues paid to us by certain third-party providers.  Third-party finance fees are reported net of the fees we pay to third-party Tier 3 finance providers.  Accordingly, changes in the relative mix of the components of other gross profit can affect the composition and amount of other gross profit. Fiscal 2021 Versus Fiscal 2020. Other gross profit decreased 18.1% in fiscal 2021, reflecting a decline in service department profits and EPP revenues. Service results reflected the overhead deleverage resulting from our decline in used car sales, pay continuity for our technicians and other service personnel during periods of reduced vehicle reconditioning activity in the first quarter and discretionary bonuses for service and reconditioning associates. SG&A Expenses C OMPONENTS OF SG&A E XPENSES AS A P ERCENTAGE OF T OTAL SG&A E XPENSES C OMPONENTS OF SG&A E XPENSES C OMPARED WITH P RIOR P ERIODS (1) Excludes compensation and benefits related to reconditioning and vehicle repair service, which are included in cost of sales.  See Note 12 for details of stock-based compensation expense by grant type. (2) Includes IT expenses, non-CAF bad debt, insurance, preopening and relocation costs, charitable contributions, travel and other administrative expenses. (3) Calculated as total SG&A expenses divided by total used vehicle units. 36 Fiscal 2021 Versus Fiscal 2020 (Decrease of $41.3 million or 2.1% ). This decrease reflected a reduction in costs associated with our decline in sales volume and actions taken in response to COVID-19 to reduce costs, partially offset by  continued spending to advance our technology platforms and support strategic initiatives.  The decrease also reflected the following: • $40.3 million one-time benefit, representing our receipt of settlement proceeds in a class action lawsuit related to the economic loss associated with vehicles containing Takata airbags. • $26.2 million increase in advertising expense primarily due to our new advertising campaign launched during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021 and incremental marketing spend in select markets in conjunction with our expanded pricing tests. • $12.3 million increase in share-based compensation expense.  The increase in share-based compensation expense was largely related to cash-settled restricted stock units, as the expense associated with these units was primarily driven by the change in the company's stock price during the relevant periods. Interest Expense Interest expense includes the interest related to short- and long-term debt, financing obligations and finance lease obligations.  It does not include interest on the non-recourse notes payable, which is reflected within CAF income. Fiscal 2021 Versus Fiscal 2020. Interest expense of $86.2 million in fiscal 2021 was relatively consistent with $83.0 million in fiscal 2020. Income Taxes The effective income tax rate was 22.6% in fiscal 2021 compared with 23.5% in fiscal 2020.  The decrease in the effective tax rate is primarily due to an increase in excess tax benefits recognized on stock exercises and releases in fiscal 2021. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS – CARMAX AUTO FINANCE CAF income primarily reflects interest and fee income generated by CAF’s portfolio of auto loans receivable less the interest expense associated with the debt issued to fund these receivables, a provision for estimated loan losses and direct CAF expenses.  Total interest margin reflects the spread between interest and fees charged to consumers and our funding costs.  Changes in the interest margin on new originations affect CAF income over time.  Increases in interest rates, which affect CAF’s funding costs, or other competitive pressures on consumer rates, could result in compression in the interest margin on new originations.  Changes in the allowance for loan losses as a percentage of ending managed receivables reflect the effect of changes in loss and delinquency experience and economic factors on our outlook for net losses expected to occur over the remaining contractual life of the loans receivable. CAF’s managed portfolio is composed primarily of loans originated over the past several years.  Trends in receivable growth and interest margins primarily reflect the cumulative effect of changes in the business over a multi-year period.  Historically, we have strived to originate loans with an underlying risk profile that we believe will, in the aggregate and excluding CAF’s Tier 3 originations, result in cumulative net losses in the 2% to 2.5% range over the life of the loans.  Actual loss performance of the loans may fall outside of this range based on various factors, including intentional changes in the risk profile of originations, economic conditions (including the effects of the COVID-19 outbreak) and wholesale recovery rates.  Based on underwriting adjustments made during the first quarter of fiscal 2021, in response to higher anticipated losses related to COVID-19, we targeted new loans toward the higher end of this range.  In the second quarter of fiscal 2021, we ceased the underwriting adjustments made during the previous quarter and we anticipate loans originated since to remain within our targeted range.  Current period originations reflect current trends in both our retail sales and the CAF business, including the volume of loans originated, current interest rates charged to consumers, loan terms and average credit scores.   Loans originated in a given fiscal period impact CAF income over time, as we recognize income over the life of the underlying auto loan. CAF income does not include any allocation of indirect costs.  Although CAF benefits from certain indirect overhead expenditures, we have not allocated indirect costs to CAF to avoid making subjective allocation decisions.  Examples of indirect costs not allocated to CAF include retail store expenses and corporate expenses. See Note 3 for additional information on CAF income and Note 4 for information on auto loans receivable, including credit quality. 37 S ELECTED CAF F INANCIAL I NFORMATION (1) Percent of total average managed receivables. CAF O RIGINATION I NFORMATION (A FTER THE I MPACT OF 3 - D AY P AYOFFS) (1) Vehicle units financed as a percentage of total used units sold. (2) The credit scores represent FICO® scores and reflect only receivables with obligors that have a FICO® score at the time of application.  The FICO® score with respect to any receivable with co-obligors is calculated as the average of each obligor’s FICO® score at the time of application.  FICO® scores are not a significant factor in our primary scoring model, which relies on information from credit bureaus and other application information as discussed in Note 4.  FICO® is a federally registered servicemark of Fair Isaac Corporation. (3) LTV represents the ratio of the amount financed to the total collateral value, which is measured as the vehicle selling price plus applicable taxes, title and fees. L OAN P ERFORMANCE I NFORMATION (1) The allowance for loan losses as of February 28, 2021, includes a $202.0 million increase as a result of our adoption of CECL during the first quarter of fiscal 2021. (2) The average recovery rate represents the average percentage of the outstanding principal balance we receive when a vehicle is repossessed and liquidated, generally at our wholesale auctions.  While in any individual period conditions may vary, over the past 10 fiscal years, the annual recovery rate has ranged from a low of 46% to a high of 60%, and it is primarily affected by changes in the wholesale market pricing environment. 38 Fiscal 2021 Versus Fiscal 2020. • CAF Income (Increase of $106.8 million or 23.4%) ◦ The increase in CAF income reflects increases in the total interest margin percentage and average managed receivables as well as a decrease in the provision for loan losses. ◦ The decrease in net loan originations in fiscal 2021 largely resulted from our used vehicle sales decline. • Provision for Loan Losses (Decreased to $160.7 million from $185.7 million) ◦ The provision largely reflected our initial estimate of lifetime losses on loans originated in fiscal 2021. ◦ The provision also included an increase in our estimate of lifetime losses made during the first quarter of fiscal 2021, largely resulting from COVID-19 turmoil and worsened economic factors, which was largely offset by favorable loss experience in comparison to our expectations during the remainder of fiscal 2021. ◦ The allowance for loan losses as a percentage of ending managed receivables was 2.97% as of February 28, 2021 compared with 2.64% as of March 1, 2020, after our adoption of CECL. ◦ We believe our current reserve is appropriate and considers both the positive customer payment behavior recently observed as well as the unpredictability of the current environment and the uncertain consumer situation. • Total interest margin increased as a percentage of average managed receivables to 6.1% in fiscal 2021 compared with 5.7% in fiscal 2020 as a result of lower funding costs. Tier 3 Loan Originations. CAF also originates a small portion of auto loans to customers who typically would be financed by our Tier 3 finance providers, in order to better understand the performance of these loans, mitigate risk and add incremental profits.  Historically, CAF has targeted originating approximately 5% of the total Tier 3 loan volume; however, this rate may vary over time based on market conditions.  During the first quarter of fiscal 2021, we paused our CAF Tier 3 lending given the current economic outlook and uncertainty surrounding COVID-19.  Early in the third quarter, we resumed our Tier 3 lending program.  A total of $147.7 million and $167.5 million in CAF Tier 3 receivables were outstanding as of February 28, 2021 and February 29, 2020, respectively.  These loans have higher loss and delinquency rates than the remainder of the CAF portfolio, as well as higher contract rates.  As of February 28, 2021 and February 29, 2020, approximately 10% of the total allowance for loan losses related to the outstanding CAF Tier 3 loan balances.  Subsequent to the end of fiscal 2021, we began to increase our Tier 3 volume beyond our target of 5% of the total Tier 3 loan volume, and we anticipate reaching and maintaining a 10% share in Tier 3 loan volume by the end of the first quarter of fiscal 2022. PLANNED FUTURE ACTIVITIES We anticipate opening ten stores in fiscal 2022.  These stores will predominantly be cross functional stores that have a smaller footprint and can leverage our scale and presence of the larger format stores in nearby markets.  We currently estimate capital expenditures will total approximately $350 million in fiscal 2022.  Over $100 million, or approximately one-third of this spend, will be focused on investments in technology, an increase from approximately 15% four years ago. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS See Note 1(X) to the consolidated financial statements for information on recent accounting pronouncements applicable to CarMax. FINANCIAL CONDITION Liquidity and Capital Resources Our primary ongoing cash requirements are to fund our existing operations, store expansion and improvement, CAF, and strategic growth initiatives.  Since fiscal 2013, we have also elected to use cash for our share repurchase program.  Our primary ongoing sources of liquidity include funds provided by operations, proceeds from non-recourse funding vehicles and borrowings under our revolving credit facility or through other financing sources. During the first quarter of fiscal 2021, in response to COVID-19, we took immediate and proactive measures to bolster our liquidity position and provide additional financial flexibility to improve our ability to meet our short-term liquidity needs.  Those measures included drawing down additional funds on our revolving credit facility, pausing our stock repurchase program, pausing our store expansion strategy and actively aligning operating expenses to the current state of the business.  We strengthened our overall financial position by selling through inventory and quickly aligning costs to lower sales volumes.  We have continued to adjust inventory levels throughout the pandemic to align with sales trends.  During the third quarter, we fully paid down the outstanding balance on our revolving credit facility and resumed our store expansion strategy and share 39 repurchase program. Given the turnaround in our business, the strength of the credit markets and our solid balance sheet, we believe we have the appropriate liquidity,  access to capital and financial strength to support our operations and continue investing in our strategic initiatives for the foreseeable future. In March 2021, we signed a definitive agreement to acquire Edmunds for a purchase price that implies an enterprise value of $404 million, inclusive of our initial investment.  We expect to pay for the transaction with a combination of cash and equity and anticipate it will close in June 2021. We are party to contractual obligations involving commitments to make payments to third parties.  These obligations impact our liquidity and capital resource needs.  Our contractual obligations primarily consist of long-term debt and related interest payments, leases, purchase obligations and commitments, income taxes and defined benefit retirement plans.  See Notes 11 and 15 for amounts outstanding as of February 28, 2021 related to debt and leases, respectively. Our contractual obligations related to income taxes represent the net unrecognized tax benefits related to uncertain tax positions. See Note 9 for information related to income taxes.  Our contractual obligations related to defined benefit retirement plans represent the funded status recognized as of February 28, 2021.  See Note 10 for information related to these plans. Purchase obligations and commitments consist of certain enforceable and legally binding obligations related to real estate purchases, third-party outsourcing services and advertising.  As of February 28, 2021, our purchase obligations and commitments were approximately $141.2 million, of which $68.0 million are due in fiscal 2022.  The majority of the remaining purchase obligations and commitments are due within the next three years. We currently target an adjusted debt to capital ratio in a range of 35% to 45%.  At the end of fiscal 2021, our adjusted debt to capital ratio was below our targeted range for the year.  In calculating this ratio, we utilize total debt, excluding non-recourse notes payable, finance lease liabilities, a multiple of eight times rent expense and total shareholders’ equity.  Generally, we expect to use our revolving credit facility and other financing sources, together with stock repurchases, to maintain this targeted ratio; however, in any period, we may be outside this range due to seasonal, market, strategic or other factors. Operating Activities .  During fiscal 2021, net cash provided by operating activities totaled $667.8 million, compared with net cash used in operating activities of $236.6 million in fiscal 2020.  Our operating cash flows are significantly impacted by changes in auto loans receivable, which increased $300.8 million in fiscal 2021 compared with $1.31 billion in fiscal 2020. The majority of the changes in auto loans receivable are accompanied by changes in non-recourse notes payable, which are issued to fund auto loans originated by CAF.  Net issuances of non-recourse notes payable were $151.5 million in fiscal 2021 compared with $1.08 billion in fiscal 2020 and are separately reflected as cash from financing activities.  Due to the presentation differences between auto loans receivable and non-recourse notes payable on the consolidated statements of cash flows, fluctuations in these amounts can have a significant impact on our operating and financing cash flows without affecting our overall liquidity, working capital or cash flows. As of February 28, 2021, total inventory was $3.16 billion, representing an increase of $310.7 million, or 10.9%, compared with the balance as of the start of the fiscal year.  The increase primarily reflected an increase in the average carrying cost of inventory as a result of higher acquisition costs, driven by market appreciation, as well as increased units due to decreased sales at the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2021 as a result of severe weather and tax refund delays. The change in net cash provided by (used in) operating activities for fiscal 2021 compared with fiscal 2020 reflected the change in auto loans receivable, partially offset by a decrease in net earnings when excluding non-cash expenses, which include depreciation and amortization, share-based compensation expense and the provisions for loan losses and cancellation reserves. Investing Activities .  Net cash used in investing activities totaled $128.2 million in fiscal 2021 and $389.4 million in fiscal 2020.  Investing activities primarily consist of capital expenditures, which totaled $164.5 million in fiscal 2021 and $331.9 million in fiscal 2020.  Capital expenditures primarily include store construction costs, real estate acquisitions for planned future store openings and store remodeling expenses.  We maintain a multi-year pipeline of sites to support our store growth, so portions of capital spending in one year may relate to stores that we open in subsequent fiscal years.  In response to COVID-19, we paused our store expansion and remodel strategy during the first quarter of fiscal 2021. We have since resumed these activities.  We opened 4 stores in fiscal 2021 compared with 13 stores in fiscal 2020. 40 Financing Activities .  Net cash used in financing activities was $424.0 million in fiscal 2021, compared with net cash provided by financing activities of $687.0 million in fiscal 2020.  Included in these amounts were net issuances of non-recourse notes payable of $151.5 million compared with $1.08 billion, respectively.  Non-recourse notes payable are typically used to fund changes in auto loans receivable (see Operating Activities). During fiscal 2021, cash used in financing activities was impacted by stock repurchases of $229.9 million as well as net payments on our long-term debt of $463.0 million.  During fiscal 2020, cash provided by financing activities was impacted by stock repurchases of $567.7 million as well as net borrowings on our long-term debt of $77.8 million. T OTAL D EBT AND C ASH AND C ASH E QUIVALENTS (1) Interest is payable monthly, with the exception of our senior notes, which are payable semi-annually. (2) Borrowings accrue interest at variable rates based on LIBOR, the federal funds rate, or the prime rate, depending on the type of borrowing. (3) Total debt excludes unamortized debt issuance costs.  See Note 11 for additional information. Borrowings under our $1.45 billion unsecured revolving credit facility are available for working capital and general corporate purposes, and the unused portion is fully available to us.  The credit facility, term loan and senior note agreements contain representations and warranties, conditions and covenants.  If these requirements are not met, all amounts outstanding or otherwise owed could become due and payable immediately and other limitations could be placed on our ability to use any available borrowing capacity.  As of February 28, 2021, we were in compliance with these financial covenants. See Note 11 for additional information on our revolving credit facility, term loan, senior notes and financing obligations. CAF auto loans receivable are primarily funded through our warehouse facilities and asset-backed term funding transactions.  These non-recourse funding vehicles are structured to legally isolate the auto loans receivable, and we would not expect to be able to access the assets of our non-recourse funding vehicles, even in insolvency, receivership or conservatorship proceedings.  Similarly, the investors in the non-recourse notes payable have no recourse to our assets beyond the related receivables, the amounts on deposit in reserve accounts and the restricted cash from collections on auto loans receivable.  We do, however, continue to have the rights associated with the interest we retain in these non-recourse funding vehicles. As of February 28, 2021, $11.45 billion and $2.31 billion of non-recourse notes payable were outstanding related to asset-backed term funding transactions and our warehouse facilities, respectively.  During fiscal 2021, we funded a total of $5.78 billion in asset-backed term funding transactions.  As of February 28, 2021, we had $1.61 billion of unused capacity in our warehouse facilities. We have periodically increased our warehouse facility limit over time, as our store base, sales and CAF loan originations have grown.  See Notes 1(F) and 11 for additional information on the warehouse facilities. We generally repurchase the receivables funded through our warehouse facilities when we enter into an asset-backed term funding transaction.  If our counterparties were to refuse to permit these repurchases it could impact our ability to execute on our funding program.  Additionally, the agreements related to the warehouse facilities include various representations and warranties, covenants and performance triggers.  If these requirements are not met, we could be unable to continue to fund receivables through the warehouse facilities.  In addition, warehouse facility investors could charge us a higher rate of interest 41 and could have us replaced as servicer.  Further, we could be required to deposit collections on the related receivables with the warehouse facility agents on a daily basis and deliver executed lockbox agreements to the warehouse facility agents. The timing and amount of stock repurchases are determined based on stock price, market conditions, legal requirements and other factors.  Shares repurchased are deemed authorized but unissued shares of common stock.  As of February 28, 2021, a total of $2 billion of board authorizations for repurchases were outstanding, with no expiration date, of which $1.34 billion remained available for repurchase.  In March 2020, our current stock repurchase program was suspended.  The repurchase authorization remained effective and the program resumed in September 2020.  See Note 12 for more information on share repurchase activity. Fair Value Measurements. We recognize money market securities, mutual fund investments and derivative instruments at fair value.  See Note 6 for more information on fair value measurements.