********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

We are subject to a variety of risks, the most significant of which are described below.  Our business, sales, results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. BUSINESS RISKS We operate in a highly competitive industry.  Failure to develop and execute strategies to remain the nation’s preferred retailer of used vehicles and to adapt to the increasing use of digital and online tools to market, buy, sell and finance used vehicles could adversely affect our business, sales and results of operations. Automotive retailing is a highly competitive and highly fragmented business.  Our competition includes publicly and privately owned new and used car dealers and online and mobile sales platforms, as well as millions of private individuals.  Competitors buy and sell the same or similar makes of vehicles that we offer in the same or similar markets at competitive prices.  New car dealers leverage their franchise relationships with automotive manufacturers to brand certain used cars as “certified pre-owned,” which could provide those competitors with an advantage over CarMax. Retail Competition. Some of our competitors have replicated or attempted to replicate portions of the consumer offer that we pioneered when we opened our first used car store in 1993, including our use of competitive, no-haggle prices and our commitment to buy a customer’s vehicle even if they do not purchase one from us. Competitors using online focused business models, both for direct sales and consumer-to-consumer facilitation, could materially impact our business model.  Increased online used vehicle offerings and the growing consumer trend of buying vehicles online could make it more difficult for us to differentiate our customer offering from competitors’ offerings, could result in lower-than-expected retail margins, and could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations.  Further, existing e-commerce businesses have and could continue to enter the online new and used vehicle markets, including companies with significantly more resources than CarMax that might be able to provide customers access to a greater inventory of vehicles while delivering a superior online experience.  If we fail to respond effectively to our existing and potential retail competitors, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations. Online Facilitation. In addition, our competitive standing is affected by companies, including search engines and online car marketplaces, that are not direct competitors but that may direct online traffic to the websites of competing automotive retailers.  The increasing activities of these companies could make it more difficult for carmax.com to attract traffic.  These companies could also make it more difficult for CarMax to otherwise market its vehicles online. The increasing use of digital and online tools to facilitate consumers’ sales or trade-ins of their current vehicles could have a material adverse effect on our ability to source vehicles through our appraisal process, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our vehicle acquisition costs and results of operations.  For example, online appraisal tools are available to consumers that generate offers and facilitate purchases by dealers other than CarMax. In addition, there are companies that sell software and data solutions to new and used car dealers to enable those dealers to, among other things, more efficiently source and price inventory.  Although these companies do not compete with CarMax, the increasing use of such products by dealers who compete with CarMax could reduce the relative competitive advantage of CarMax’s internally developed proprietary systems. 12 If we fail to respond effectively to competitive pressures or to changes in the used vehicle marketplace, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations. CAF Competition. Our CAF segment is subject to competition from various financial institutions, including banks and credit unions, which provide vehicle financing to consumers.  If we were unable to continue providing competitive finance offers to our customers through CAF, it could result in a greater percentage of sales financed through our third-party finance providers, which are generally less profitable to CarMax, or through other outside financing sources.  Moreover, if CAF competitors are able to attract potential customers before they visit CarMax, whether through competitive finance offers or ease of customer experience, they may be directed to retail options other than CarMax.  Accordingly, if CAF was unable to continue making competitive finance offers to our customers, or our finance competitors are able to successfully attract and redirect a disproportionate number of our potential customers, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations. Evolving Marketplace. The marketplace for used vehicles may be impacted by the significant, and likely accelerating, changes to the broader automotive industry.  Increasing demand for EVs is driving the need to adapt our business to source, recondition and service EVs.  Technological changes, including the development of autonomous vehicles, new products and services, new business models, including subscription models, and new methods of travel could reduce automotive retail demand or disrupt our current business model.  If we fail to respond effectively to the evolving marketplace, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations. The automotive retail industry in general and our business in particular are sensitive to economic conditions.  These conditions could adversely affect our business, sales, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to national and regional U.S. economic conditions.  These conditions include, but are not limited to, recession, inflation, interest rates, unemployment levels, the state of the housing market, gasoline prices, consumer credit availability, consumer credit delinquency and loss rates, personal discretionary spending levels, and consumer sentiment about the economy in general.  These conditions and the economy in general have, and in the future may, be affected by significant national or international events such as a global health crisis (including the COVID-19 pandemic) or current geopolitical conditions (including the Israel-Hamas War and the Russia-Ukraine War).  When these economic conditions worsen or stagnate, it can have a material adverse effect on consumer demand for vehicles generally, demand from particular consumer categories or demand for particular vehicle types.  It can also negatively impact availability of credit to finance vehicle purchases for all or certain categories of consumers.  This could result in challenges to vehicle affordability, lower sales, decreased margins on units sold, and decreased profits for our CAF segment.  For example, vehicle affordability challenges that stem from widespread inflationary pressures, higher interest rates, tightened lending standards and prolonged low consumer confidence are the primary drivers behind the overall decrease in demand for used vehicles.  Worsening or stagnating economic conditions can also have a material adverse effect on the supply of late-model used vehicles, as automotive manufacturers produce fewer new vehicles and consumers retain their current vehicles for longer periods of time.  This could result in increased costs to acquire used vehicle inventory and decreased margins on units sold. Any significant change or deterioration in economic conditions could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales, results of operations and financial condition. Our business is dependent upon capital to operate, fund growth and support the activities of our CAF segment.  Changes in capital and credit markets could adversely affect our business, sales, results of operations and financial condition. Changes in the availability or cost of capital and working capital financing, including the long-term financing to support the expansion of our store base and sales growth in existing stores, could adversely affect sales, operating strategies and store growth.  Although, in recent years, internally generated cash flows have generally been sufficient to maintain our operations and fund our growth, there can be no assurance that we will continue to generate sufficient cash for these purposes.  Failure to do so—or our decision to put our cash to other uses—would make us more dependent on external sources of financing to fund our growth. Changes in the availability or cost of the long-term financing to support the origination of auto loans receivable through CAF could adversely affect sales and results of operations.  We use a securitization program to fund the majority of the auto loans receivable originated by CAF.  Changes in the condition of the asset-backed securitization market could lead us to incur higher costs to access funds in this market or require us to seek alternative means to finance CAF’s loan originations.  If this market ceased to exist and there were no immediate alternative funding sources available, we might be forced to curtail our lending practices for some period of time.  The impact of reducing or curtailing CAF’s loan originations could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations. 13 Our revolving credit facility, term loans, senior unsecured notes and certain securitization and sale-leaseback agreements contain covenants and event-of-default or other performance triggers.  Any failure to comply with these covenants or performance triggers could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Disruptions in the capital and credit markets could adversely affect our ability to draw on our revolving credit facility or access our deposits generally.  If our ability to secure funds from the facility or our deposits were significantly impaired, our access to working capital would be impacted, our ability to maintain appropriate inventory levels could be affected and these conditions—especially if coupled with a failure to generate significant cash flows—could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales, results of operations and financial condition. CarMax was founded on the fundamental principle of integrity.  Failure to maintain a reputation of integrity and to otherwise maintain and enhance our brand could adversely affect our business, sales and results of operations. Our reputation as a company that is founded on the fundamental principle of integrity is critical to our success.  Our reputation as a retailer offering competitive, no-haggle prices, a broad selection of CarMax Quality Certified used vehicles and superior customer service is also critical to our success.  If we fail to maintain the high standards on which our reputation is built, or if an event occurs that damages this reputation, it could adversely affect consumer demand and have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations.  Such an event could include an isolated incident at a single store, particularly if such incident results in adverse publicity, governmental investigations, or litigation and could involve, among other things, our sales process, our provision of financing, our reconditioning process, our treatment of customers or associates, our use of artificial intelligence, cultural brand positioning, or real or perceived vehicle quality and related injury.  Even the perception of a decrease in the quality of our brand could impact results. The use of social media has increased the speed with which information and opinions can be shared and thus the speed with which reputation can be affected.  We monitor social media and attempt to address customer concerns, provide accurate information and protect our reputation, but there can be no guarantee that our efforts will succeed.  If we fail to correct or mitigate misinformation or negative information, including information spread through social media or traditional media channels, about the vehicles we offer, our customer experience, or any aspect of our brand, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations. Our business is sensitive to changes in the prices of new and used vehicles. Any significant changes in retail prices for new and used vehicles could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations.  For example, if retail prices for used vehicles rise relative to retail prices for new vehicles, it could make buying a new vehicle more attractive to our customers than buying a used vehicle, which could have a material adverse effect on sales and results of operations and could result in decreased used margins.  Manufacturer incentives could contribute to narrowing this price gap.  In addition, any significant changes in retail or wholesale prices for used vehicles could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations by reducing margins. Our business is dependent upon access to vehicle inventory and the parts used to recondition such inventory.  A failure to expeditiously liquidate that inventory—or obstacles to acquiring inventory, including parts—whether because of supply, competition, or other factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations. Used vehicle inventory is subject to depreciation risk.  CarMax has experienced, and may continue to experience, steep market depreciation of its vehicle inventory due to changes in economic conditions, which could result in reduced retail and wholesale margins.  The inability to liquidate excess inventory at prices that allow us to meet margin targets or to recover our costs could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. A reduction in the availability of, or access to, sources of inventory, including parts used to recondition inventory, also could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations. We source a significant percentage of our vehicles through our appraisal process, which includes our online instant appraisal offers, and these vehicles are generally more profitable for CarMax.  Accordingly, if we fail to adjust appraisal offers to stay in line with broader market trade-in offer trends, or fail to recognize those trends, it could adversely affect our ability to acquire inventory.  It could also force us to purchase a greater percentage of our inventory from third-party auctions, which is generally less profitable for CarMax.  Our ability to source vehicles through our appraisal process could also be affected by competition, both from new and used car dealers directly and through third parties driving appraisal traffic to those dealers.  See the risk factor above titled “ We operate in a highly competitive industry ” for discussion of this risk.  Our ability to source vehicles from 14 third-party auctions could be affected by an increase in the number of closed auctions that are open only to new car dealers who have franchise relationships with automotive manufacturers. Our failure to realize the benefits associated with our omni-channel platform could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations. We have made a considerable investment in our omni-channel platform and a failure to capture the benefits that we expect from the platform and our continued investments in enhancements to the platform could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations.  We must anticipate and meet our customers’ expectations in an evolving retail industry.  Our business, sales and results of operations may be negatively affected if we fail to provide a high quality and consistent customer experience, regardless of sales channel, if our omni-channel platform does not meet customer expectations, or if we are unable to attract, retain and manage the personnel at various levels who have the necessary skills and experience we need to implement our omni-channel initiatives. Our failure to manage our growth and the related challenges could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations. Our growth is dependent on the success of our omni-channel platform, opening stores in new and existing markets, continued sales growth and the build-out of our offsite production and auction facilities.  These enhancements and expansions place significant demands on our management team, our associates and our information systems.  If we fail to effectively or efficiently manage our growth, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations.  Sales growth requires that we continue to effectively execute our business strategies and implement new and ongoing initiatives to elevate the experience of our customers.  See the risk factor above titled “ Our failure to realize the benefits associated with our omni-channel platform could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations ” for more discussion of this risk.  The expansion of our store base and implementation of new initiatives also requires us to recruit and retain the associates necessary to support that expansion.  See the risk factor below titled “ Our success depends upon the continued contributions of our associates ” for discussion of this risk.  The expansion of our business also requires real estate.  Our inability to acquire or lease suitable real estate at favorable terms could limit our expansion and could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our success depends upon the continued contributions of our associates. Our associates are the driving force behind our success.  We believe that one of the things that distinguishes CarMax is a culture centered on valuing our associates.  Adapting to new dynamics, we provide flexible, hybrid and remote work arrangements for certain associates, which may impact associate engagement, integration of new associates and overall company culture.  A failure to maintain our culture could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations. In addition, managing our response to a changing economic environment as well as our strategic initiatives require management, employees and contractors to adapt and learn new skills and capabilities.  A failure to maintain an adaptable and responsive culture or to continue developing and retaining the associates that drive our success could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations. We have experienced, and could experience in the future, a shortage of associates for retail and operational positions, which could have an impact on our ability to conduct our business and maintain qualified talent in key areas.  Further, there has been a general increase in domestic workers organizing to form or join a union.  If we are unable to maintain positive associate relations, or if, despite our efforts, we become subject to successful unionization efforts, it could increase costs, limit our ability to respond to competitive threats and have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations. Our ongoing success also depends upon the continued contributions of our store, CEC, region and corporate management teams.  Consequently, the loss of the services of any of these associates could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations.  In addition, an inability to build our management bench strength to support store growth could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations. We may experience greater credit losses in CAF’s portfolio of auto loans receivable than anticipated. We are exposed to the risk that our customers who finance their purchases through CAF will be unable or unwilling to repay their loans according to their terms and that the vehicle collateral securing the payment of their loans may not be sufficient to 15 ensure full repayment.  Credit losses are inherent in CAF’s business and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. We make various assumptions and judgments about CAF’s portfolio of auto loans receivable and provide an allowance for loan losses based on a number of factors.  Although management will establish an allowance for loan losses it believes is appropriate, this allowance may not be adequate.  For example, when economic conditions deteriorate unexpectedly, additional loan losses not incorporated in the existing allowance for loan losses may occur.  Losses in excess of the existing allowance for loan losses could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Our failure to realize the benefits associated with our strategic investments, including actual or potential acquisitions, could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations and we may incur impairment losses on our strategic investments in equity securities. From time to time, CarMax makes strategic investments, including acquisitions, and we currently hold non-controlling equity investments in several companies.  We may encounter difficulties in managing our strategic investments and in assimilating new capabilities or acquisitions to meet the future needs of our business.  Furthermore, we may not realize all the anticipated benefits of these investments, or the realized benefits may be significantly delayed.  While our evaluation of any potential transaction includes business, legal, and financial due diligence with the goal of identifying and evaluating the material risks involved, our due diligence reviews may not identify all of the issues necessary to accurately estimate the cost and potential benefits and risks of a particular investment. Additionally, under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”), if any investment’s fair value declines below its carrying value, we will need to record an impairment loss in the applicable fiscal period.  As a result, we may incur expenses related to the impairment of existing or future equity investments.  Any such impairment charge could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We rely on third-party finance providers to finance a significant portion of our customers’ vehicle purchases.  Accordingly, our sales and results of operations are partially dependent on the actions of these third parties. We provide financing to qualified retail customers through CAF and several third-party finance providers.  We also have arrangements with third parties who provide financing to some of our auction customers.  If one or more of these third-party providers cease to provide financing to our customers, provide financing to fewer customers or no longer provide financing on competitive terms, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations.  Additionally, if we were unable to replace the current third-party providers upon the occurrence of one or more of the foregoing events, it could also have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations. We rely on third-party providers to supply EPP products to our customers.  Accordingly, our sales and results of operations are partially dependent on the actions of these third-parties. We receive revenue for selling EPP products on behalf of unrelated third-parties, who are the primary obligors.  If one or more of these third-party providers cease to provide EPP products, make changes to their products or no longer provide their products on competitive terms, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations.  Additionally, if we were unable to replace the current third-party providers upon the occurrence of one or more of the foregoing events, it could also have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations. We rely on third-party vendors for key components of our business. Many components of our business, including data management, key operational processes and critical customer systems, are provided by third parties.  We carefully select our third-party vendors, but we do not control their actions.  If our vendors fail to perform as we expect or conduct operations that are inconsistent with our values, our operations and reputation could suffer if the failure harms the vendors’ ability to serve us and our customers.  One or more of these third-party vendors may experience financial distress, technology challenges, cybersecurity incidents, staffing shortages or liquidity challenges, file for bankruptcy protection, go out of business, or suffer disruptions in their business.  The use of third-party vendors represents an inherent risk to our company that could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations. 16 Our business is sensitive to conditions affecting automotive manufacturers, including manufacturer recalls. Adverse conditions, such as the 2023 United Auto Workers strike, affecting one or more automotive manufacturers could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations and could impact the supply of vehicles, including the supply of late-model used vehicles.  In addition, manufacturer recalls are a common occurrence.  Because we do not have manufacturer authorization to complete recall-related repairs, some vehicles we sell may have unrepaired safety recalls.  Such recalls, and our lack of authorization to make recall-related repairs, could adversely affect used vehicle sales or valuations, could cause us to temporarily remove vehicles from inventory, could force us to incur increased costs and could expose us to litigation and adverse publicity related to the sale of recalled vehicles, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations. Our results of operations and financial condition are subject to management’s accounting judgments and estimates, as well as changes in accounting policies. The preparation of our financial statements requires us to make estimates and assumptions affecting the reported amounts of CarMax’s assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and earnings.  If these estimates or assumptions are incorrect, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition.  We have identified several accounting policies as being “critical” to the fair presentation of our financial condition and results of operations because they involve major aspects of our business and require us to make judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain.  These policies are described in Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and the notes to consolidated financial statements included in Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. The implementation of new accounting requirements or other changes to GAAP could have a material adverse effect on our reported results of operations and financial condition. We may not be able to adequately protect our intellectual property, which could adversely affect our business, sales, results of operations and financial condition. Protecting our intellectual property (including patents, trademarks, copyrights, confidential information and trade secrets) is integral to our business.  The failure to protect our intellectual property, including from unauthorized uses, can erode consumer trust and our brand value and have a material adverse effect on our business. Our business is sensitive to weather events. The occurrence of severe weather events, such as rain, flooding, hail, snow, wind, storms, hurricanes, extended periods of unusually cold weather or natural disasters, could cause store closures or affect the timing of consumer demand, either of which could adversely affect consumer traffic and could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations in a given period.  Further, as the Earth’s climate changes, extreme weather events could become more frequent or more intense, which could have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. We have communicated certain environmental goals that are subject to related disclosure requirements.  Failure to meet environmental goals or satisfy disclosure requirements could adversely affect our business, sales, results of operations and financial condition. We have communicated certain environmental goals in our public disclosures which may be difficult to achieve.  The accuracy, adequacy or completeness of the disclosures may subject us to scrutiny.  Further, statements about our environmental goals, and progress toward those goals, may be based on standards for measuring progress that are still developing, and such statements may be subject to evolving, forthcoming and altogether new disclosure requirements.  If we are unable to achieve progress with respect to our environmental goals, accomplish our environmental goals or satisfy evolving shareholder expectations or industry standards, we could suffer reputational harm.  Our environmental data, processes, and disclosure may be incomplete or inaccurate, which may result in civil penalties and have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations. We are subject to local conditions in the geographic areas in which we are concentrated. Our performance is subject to local economic, competitive and other conditions prevailing in geographic areas where we operate.  Since a large portion of our sales is generated in the Southeastern U.S., California, Texas and Washington, D.C./Baltimore, our results of operations depend substantially on general economic conditions and consumer spending habits in these 17 markets.  In the event that any of these geographic areas experience a downturn in economic conditions, weather events or other region-specific incidents, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations. TECHNOLOGY AND DATA PRIVACY RISKS We collect sensitive confidential information from our customers.  A breach of this confidentiality, whether due to a cybersecurity or other incident, could result in harm to our customers and damage to our brand. We collect, process and retain sensitive and confidential customer information in the normal course of business and may share that information with our third-party service providers.  This information includes the information customers provide when purchasing a vehicle and applying for vehicle financing.  We also collect, process and retain sensitive and confidential associate information in the normal course of business and may share that information with our third-party service providers.  Although we have taken measures designed to safeguard such information and have received assurances from our third-party providers, our facilities and systems, and those of third-party providers, could be vulnerable to external or internal security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming or human errors or other similar events. The security measures we have implemented to protect against cybersecurity incidents may not always prevent or mitigate the impact of a cybersecurity incident and there can be no assurance that future efforts to prevent or mitigate a cybersecurity incident will be effective either.  Numerous national retailers have disclosed security breaches involving sophisticated cyber-attacks, including ransomware, that were not recognized or detected until after such retailers had been affected, notwithstanding the preventive measures such retailers had in place.  Further, the rapid evolution and increased adoption of artificial intelligence technologies may increase our level of cybersecurity risk.  Any security breach involving the misappropriation, loss or other unauthorized disclosure of confidential customer or associate information, whether experienced by us or by our third-party service providers, and whether due to an external cybersecurity incident, a programming error, or other cause, could damage our reputation, expose us to mitigation costs and the risks of private litigation and government enforcement, disrupt our business and otherwise have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations.  In addition, our failure to respond quickly and appropriately to such a security breach could exacerbate the consequences of the breach. We are subject to numerous and rapidly changing federal, state, and local laws and regulations regarding privacy, cybersecurity, and the collection, use, and disclosure of sensitive confidential information.  If we fail to comply with these laws and regulations or future applicable laws and regulations, we could suffer reputational harm and disruption to our business, and be subject to significant litigation, monetary damages, regulatory enforcement actions, or fines.  See the risk factor below titled “We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to a wide range of federal, state and local laws and regulations.  Changes in these laws and regulations, or our failure to comply, could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales, results of operations and financial condition” for the risks associated with failure to comply with these laws and regulations. We rely on sophisticated information systems to run our business.  The failure of these systems, or the inability to enhance our capabilities, could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations. Our business is dependent upon the integrity and efficient operation of our information systems.  In particular, we rely on our information systems to manage sales, inventory, our customer-facing websites and applications (carmax.com, carmaxautofinance.com, the CarMax mobile app, and carmaxauctions.com), consumer financing, customer information and other data.  The failure of these systems to perform as designed, the failure to maintain or update these systems as necessary, or the inability to enhance our data management and information technology capabilities, could disrupt our business operations and have a material adverse effect on our sales and results of operations. Despite our ongoing efforts to maintain and enhance the integrity and security of these systems, we have been and could be subjected to attacks by hackers, including denial-of-service attacks directed at our websites or other system breaches or malfunctions due to associate error or misconduct or other disruptions.  Such incidents could disrupt our business and have a material adverse effect on sales and results of operations.  See the risk factor above titled “ We collect sensitive confidential information from our customers ” for the risks associated with a breach of confidential customer or associate information. 18 REGULATORY AND LITIGATION RISKS We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to a wide range of federal, state and local laws and regulations.  Changes in these laws and regulations, or our failure to comply, could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to a wide range of federal, state and local laws and regulations, as well as changes in these laws and regulations and the manner in which they are interpreted or applied.  Our sale of used vehicles and related products is subject to state and local licensing requirements, federal and state laws regulating marketing and advertising, and state laws regulating sales and services.  Our provision of vehicle financing is subject to federal and state laws regulating the provision of consumer finance.  Our facilities and business operations are subject to laws and regulations relating to environmental protection and health and safety.  In addition to these laws and regulations that apply specifically to our business, we are also subject to laws and regulations affecting public companies and large employers generally, including privacy laws and federal employment practices, securities and tax laws, and sustainability and responses to climate change.  For additional discussion of these laws and regulations, see the section of this Form 10-K titled “ Business – Laws and Regulations. ” The violation of any of these laws or regulations could result in administrative, civil or criminal penalties or in a cease-and-desist order against our business operations, any of which could damage our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations.  We have incurred and will continue to incur capital and operating expenses and other costs to comply with these laws and regulations. We are subject to evolving regulations, disclosure requirements, and expectations relating to environmental, social and governance matters.  Failure to satisfy these regulations, requirements, and expectations could adversely affect our business, sales, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to an increasing number of regulations and disclosure requirements relating to environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) matters, including environmental and climate change laws.  Regulators, shareholders, associates and other stakeholders are increasingly focused on ESG matters and related disclosures.  We have incurred and will continue to incur operating expenses and other costs to comply with the evolving set of regulations and disclosure requirements and respond to shareholder expectations related to ESG matters.  Compliance with ESG-related regulations and disclosure requirements, including an evolving set of environmental and climate change laws, and shareholder expectations can be costly, challenging and time-consuming.  The violation of regulations or disclosure requirements related to ESG matters (or the disclosures themselves) could result in civil penalties, significant expenses, or damage to our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, sales and results of operations. We are subject to various legal proceedings.  If the outcomes of these proceedings are adverse to CarMax, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We are subject to various litigation matters from time to time, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  Claims arising out of actual or alleged violations of law could be asserted against us by individuals, either individually or through class claims, or by governmental entities in civil or criminal investigations and proceedings.  These claims could be asserted under a variety of laws including, but not limited to, consumer finance laws, consumer protection laws, intellectual property laws, privacy laws, labor and employment laws, securities laws, employee benefit laws, tax laws and environmental laws.  These actions could expose us to adverse publicity and to substantial monetary damages and legal defense costs, injunctive relief and criminal and civil fines and penalties including, but not limited to, suspension or revocation of licenses to conduct business. GENERAL RISKS The market price of our common stock may be volatile and could expose us to securities class action litigation. The price of our common stock may be subject to wide fluctuations based upon our operating results, general economic and market conditions, general trends and prospects for our industry, announcements by our competitors, our ability to achieve any long-term targets or performance metrics and other factors.  In addition, the market price of our common stock may also be affected by whether we meet analysts’ expectations.  Failure to meet such expectations could have a material adverse effect on the price of our common stock.  Following periods of volatility in the market price of a company’s securities, securities class action litigation is more likely.  If litigation were instituted against us, it could result in substantial costs and a diversion of our attention and resources, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. 19

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (“MD&A”) is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our audited consolidated financial statements and the accompanying notes presented in Item 8. Consolidated Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.  Note references are to the notes to consolidated financial statements included in Item 8.  Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year’s presentation.  All references to net earnings per share are to diluted net earnings per share.  Amounts and percentages may not total due to rounding. OVERVIEW See Part I, Item 1 for a detailed description and discussion of the company’s business. CarMax is the nation’s largest retailer of used vehicles.  We operate in two reportable segments:  CarMax Sales Operations and CarMax Auto Finance (“CAF”).  Our CarMax Sales Operations segment consists of all aspects of our auto merchandising and service operations, excluding financing provided by CAF.  Our CAF segment consists solely of our own finance operation that provides financing to customers buying retail vehicles from CarMax.  Our consolidated financial statements include the financial results related to our Edmunds Holding Company (“Edmunds”) business, which does not meet the definition of a reportable segment.  For purposes of our MD&A discussion, amounts related to that business are discussed in combination with our CarMax Sales Operations segment.  Separate discussion of these amounts is not considered meaningful for the purpose of gaining an understanding of our business, as the significant drivers of these operations in total are consistent with those of our CarMax Sales Operations segment.  Where appropriate, specific amounts related to non-reportable segments have been disclosed for informational purposes. CarMax Sales Operations Our sales operations segment consists of retail sales of used vehicles and related products and services, such as wholesale vehicle sales; the sale of extended protection plan (“EPP”) products, which include extended service plans (“ESPs”) and guaranteed asset protection (“GAP”); and vehicle repair service.  We offer competitive, no-haggle prices; a broad selection of CarMax Quality Certified used vehicles; value-added EPP products; and superior customer service.  Our omni-channel platform, which gives us the largest addressable market in the used car industry, empowers our retail customers to buy a car on their terms – online, in-store or an integrated combination of both. Our customers finance the majority of the retail vehicles purchased from us, and availability of on-the-spot financing is a critical component of the sales process.  We provide financing to qualified retail customers through CAF and our arrangements with industry-leading third-party finance providers.  All of the finance offers, whether by CAF or our third-party providers, are backed by a 3-day payoff option. As of February 29, 2024, we operated 245 used car stores in 109 U.S. television markets. CarMax Auto Finance In addition to third-party finance providers, we provide vehicle financing through CAF, which offers financing solely to customers buying retail vehicles from CarMax.  CAF allows us to manage our reliance on third-party finance providers and to leverage knowledge of our business to provide qualifying customers a competitive financing option.  As a result, we believe CAF enables us to capture additional profits, cash flows and sales.  CAF income primarily reflects the interest and fee income generated by the auto loans receivable less the interest expense associated with the debt issued to fund these receivables, a provision for estimated loan losses and direct expenses.  CAF income does not include any allocation of indirect costs.  After the effect of 3-day payoffs and vehicle returns, CAF financed 42.9% of our retail used vehicle unit sales in fiscal 2024.  As of February 29, 2024, CAF serviced approximately 1.1 million customer accounts in its $17.39 billion portfolio of managed receivables. Management regularly analyzes CAF’s operating results by assessing the competitiveness of our consumer offer, profitability, the performance of the auto loans receivable, including trends in credit losses and delinquencies, and CAF direct expenses. 26 Revenues and Profitability The sources of revenue and gross profit from the CarMax Sales Operations segment and other non-reportable segments for fiscal 2024 are as follows: A high-level summary of our financial results for fiscal 2024 as compared to fiscal 2023 is as follows (1) : (1) Where applicable, amounts are net of intercompany eliminations. (2) An online retail sale is defined as a sale where the customer completes all four of the following activities remotely: reserving the vehicle; financing the vehicle, if needed; trading-in or opting out of a trade-in; and creating an online sales order. (3) An omni sale is defined as a sale where customers complete at least one, but not all, of the four activities listed above online. (4) Revenue from online transactions is defined as revenue from retail sales that qualify as an online retail sale, as well as any related EPP and third-party finance contribution, wholesale sales where the winning bid was taken from an online bid and all revenue earned by Edmunds. 27 Net earnings per diluted share during fiscal 2024 included a benefit of $0.32 in connection with the receipt of settlement proceeds in a class action lawsuit related to the economic loss associated with vehicles containing Takata airbags. Refer to “Results of Operations” for further details on our revenues and profitability.  A discussion regarding Results of Operations and Financial Condition for fiscal 2023 as compared to fiscal 2022 is included in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 28, 2023, filed with the SEC on April 13, 2023. Liquidity Our primary ongoing sources of liquidity include funds provided by operations, proceeds from non-recourse funding vehicles, and borrowings under our revolving credit facility or through other financing sources.  In addition to funding our operations, this liquidity has been used to fund the repurchase of common stock under our share repurchase program and our capital expenditures. Our current capital allocation strategy is to focus on our core business.  Given our recent performance and continued market uncertainties, we are taking a conservative approach to our capital structure in order to maintain the flexibility that allows us to efficiently access the capital markets for both CAF and CarMax as a whole.  We have taken steps to better align our expenses to sales as well as slowed the rate of our store growth.  We resumed our share repurchases during the third quarter of fiscal 2024 after a pause initiated during the third quarter of the prior fiscal year.  For fiscal 2025, we intend to modestly accelerate the pace of our share repurchases above the pace that we implemented in the third quarter of fiscal 2024.  We believe we have the appropriate liquidity, access to capital and financial strength to support our operations and continue investing in our strategic initiatives for the next twelve months and thereafter for the foreseeable future. Strategic Update and Future Outlook Our omni-channel experience provides a common platform across all of CarMax that leverages our scale, nationwide footprint and infrastructure and empowers our customers to buy a vehicle on their terms, whether online, in-store or through an integrated combination of online and in-store experiences.  While we expect our online and omni sales to grow over time, our goal is to provide the best experience whether in-store, online or a combination of the two.  As a result, online, omni and in-person sales can vary from quarter to quarter depending on consumer preferences and how they choose to interact with us.  We believe consumers in the used car industry will increasingly prefer to have the ability to shop and transact digitally.  Approximately 70% of our customers leveraged some or all of our digital capabilities to complete their transactions during the current fiscal year, compared to approximately 40% when we completed our initial omni-channel roll-out at the end of fiscal 2020. Our diversified business model, combined with our exceptional associates, national scale and unparalleled omni-channel experience, is a unique advantage in the used car industry that firmly positions us to drive profitable market share gains while creating shareholder value over the long-term.  We continue to enhance our omni-channel capabilities, prioritize projects designed to optimize experiences for our associates and customers and drive operating efficiencies.  Examples of the progress we made during fiscal 2024 include the following: • Leveraged data science, automation, and artificial intelligence to make it even easier for retail customers to complete key transaction steps, such as vehicle transfers, on their own.  We also enhanced digital checkout functionality for appraisal customers, enabling them to submit their documents remotely and unlocking their ability to participate in our 30-minute Express Drop Off experience, whether they receive their offer online or in-store. • Expanded capabilities for Skye, our 24/7 virtual assistant, to include managing finance applications, vehicle transfers, appointment reservations and appraisal offers.  Customer adoption of Skye has been strong, and this has not only created efficiencies but also widened bandwidth for our associates. • Modernized our wholesale auction platform to offer new services, including single sign-on across all of our systems, artificial intelligence enhanced condition reports, early bidding capabilities and automated bills of sale.  Additionally, we streamlined MaxOffer by rolling out our instant offer experience to all participating dealers. • Added all of our lenders to our finance based shopping platform, expanding the options available to our customers. • Launched several research and buy tools through Edmunds in support of their goal to be the leader in electric vehicles (“EV”) research. We expect the impact of our omni-channel capabilities will continue to grow as consumers demand a more personalized car-buying experience.  In fiscal 2025, we expect to continue to enhance our offerings in order to enable us to grow sales, profitable market share and buys while driving operational efficiencies.  Examples of our initiatives for fiscal 2025 include the following: • Launching an evolved hub within retail customers’ MyCarMax accounts that will make it even easier to seamlessly go back and forth between assisted help and self-progression.  Customers will be able to see the steps they have taken on 28 their shopping journey, whether on their own or with help from a CEC or store associate. • Continuing to digitize work in order to build a leaner and higher value assistance model for our CECs and to support higher transaction volume.  We plan to further integrate Skye into key communication channels and improve its ability to serve as the initial point of contact across many points in customers’ shopping journeys and seamlessly transition customers to a CEC associate via the customer’s channel of choice. • Focusing on bringing even more wholesale vehicles into our ecosystem, leveraging our partnership with Edmunds to acquire vehicles from dealers. • Optimizing our pre-qualification product by integrating our Instant Offer tool into the process.  Additionally, we will remain opportunistic in CAF’s participation across the credit spectrum and pursue opportunities that enable us to provide outstanding offers for consumers while driving sales and economics for the business. We purchased approximately 234,000 vehicles from consumers and dealers during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2024, down 10.8% from the prior year quarter.  Approximately 21,000 vehicles were purchased through dealers, up 44.8% from the prior year quarter.  We leverage the Edmunds sales team to open new markets and sign up new dealers for MaxOffer.  We recently launched an appraisal tool for dealer websites that makes instant offers based on our algorithms, which are redeemable via MaxOffer.  For fiscal 2024, our self-sufficiency rate remained above 70%.  The success of our online instant appraisal offer continues to strengthen our leadership position as the largest used vehicle buyer from consumers. Our SG&A expenses in fiscal 2024 decreased from the prior year, even when excluding the benefits of this year's legal settlement.  We levered SG&A as a percentage of gross profit despite a 3.1% reduction in gross profit from the prior fiscal year.  While SG&A as a percent of gross profit can fluctuate from quarter to quarter depending on variability in gross profit, our initial goal on the path to strengthening our SG&A to gross profit leverage over time is to achieve a rate in the mid-70% range on an annual basis.  Achieving this annual rate will require continued efficiency gains in our operating model, gross profit growth and healthier consumer demand.  In fiscal 2025, we expect to require low-single-digit gross profit growth to lever SG&A. Other steps we have taken to support our business for both the short- and long-term include focusing on production efficiencies to align saleable inventory to sales, growing CAF’s penetration while raising CAF's consumer rates and tightening CAF's underwriting standards, and slowing our planned store growth to provide more capital flexibility.  We resumed our share repurchases during the third quarter of fiscal 2024 after a pause initiated during the third quarter of the prior fiscal year. We expect our diversified model, the scale of our operations, our investments and omni-channel strategy to provide a solid foundation for further growth.  We have adjusted our long-term targets, which were disclosed in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal 2022, as follows: • We are maintaining our goal to sell more than 2 million combined retail and wholesale units annually; however, we are extending the timeframe to between fiscal 2026 and fiscal 2030 due to uncertainty in the timing of market recovery and as we continue to focus on profitable market share growth.  We intend to update the timeframe to achieve this goal when we have greater visibility into the industry’s pace of recovery. • Given higher average selling prices, we expect to achieve the $33 billion in annual revenue target sooner than units. • Similarly, we also expect to achieve more than 5% nationwide market share of age 0- to 10-year old used vehicles sooner than units, but given the recent volatility in vehicle values, we will provide an updated timeframe for our expected achievement at the end of fiscal 2025. The achievement of these targets is dependent on macroeconomic factors that could result in ongoing volatility in consumer demand. In calendar 2023, we estimate we sold approximately 3.7% of the age 0- to 10-year old vehicles sold on a nationwide basis, a decrease from 4.0% in calendar 2022.  Market share performance in calendar 2023 was negatively impacted by sharp vehicle depreciation in the used car industry and our focus on profitable market share.  Based on external data, we gained market share from December 2023 to January 2024, the latest period for which title data is available.  Our strategy to increase our market share includes focusing on: • Delivering a customer-driven, omni-channel buying and selling experience that is a unique and powerful integration of our in-store and online capabilities. • Utilizing advertising to drive customer growth, educate customers about our omni-channel platform and to differentiate and elevate our brand. • Hiring, developing and retaining an engaged and skilled workforce. • Leveraging data and advanced analytics to continuously improve the customer experience as well as our processes and 29 systems. • Improving efficiency in our stores and CECs and our logistics and reconditioning operations to reduce waste. • Opening stores in new markets and expanding our presence in existing markets. • Becoming the leading retailer of used EVs in the market.  In support of this goal, Edmunds has launched several research and buying tools, which include providing data on the health and range of EV batteries as well as an evaluation of potential federal and state tax credits and incentives.  This will support our business and help CarMax be part of the solution to reduce emissions. As of February 29, 2024, we had used car stores located in 109 U.S. television markets, which covered approximately 85% of the U.S. population.  The format and operating models utilized in our stores are continuously evaluated and may change or evolve over time based upon market and consumer expectations.  During fiscal 2024, we opened five stores and our first stand-alone reconditioning center in the Atlanta metro market.  During fiscal 2025, we anticipate opening five stores, one stand-alone reconditioning center and one stand-alone auction facility. While we execute both our short- and long-term strategy, there are trends and factors that could impact our strategic approach or our results in the short and medium term.  For additional information about risks and uncertainties facing our company, see “Risk Factors,” included in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES Our results of operations and financial condition as reflected in the consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.  Preparation of financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions affecting the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses and the disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities.  We use our historical experience and other relevant factors when developing our estimates and assumptions.  We regularly evaluate these estimates and assumptions.  Note 1 includes a discussion of significant accounting policies.  The accounting policy discussed below is the one we consider critical to an understanding of our consolidated financial statements because its application places the most significant demands on our judgment.  Our financial results might have been different if different assumptions had been used or other conditions had prevailed. Allowance for Loan Losses The allowance for loan losses represents the net credit losses expected over the remaining contractual life of our managed receivables.  Because net loss performance can vary substantially over time, estimating net losses requires assumptions about matters that are uncertain. The allowance for loan losses is determined using a net loss timing curve method (“method”), primarily based on the composition of the portfolio of managed receivables and historical gross loss and recovery trends.  Due to the fact that losses for receivables with less than 18 months of performance history can be volatile, our net loss estimate weights both historical losses by credit grade at origination and actual loss data on the receivables to-date, along with forward loss curves, in estimating future performance.  Once the receivables have 18 months of performance history, the net loss estimate reflects actual loss experience of those receivables to date, along with forward loss curves, to predict future performance.  The forward loss curves are constructed using historical performance data and show the average timing of losses over the course of a receivable’s life.  The net loss estimate is calculated by applying the loss rates developed using the methods described above to the amortized cost basis of the managed receivables. The output of the method is adjusted to take into account reasonable and supportable forecasts about the future.  Specifically, the change in U.S. unemployment rates and the National Automobile Dealers Association used vehicle price index are used to predict changes in gross loss and recovery rate, respectively.  An economic adjustment factor, based upon a single macroeconomic scenario, is developed to capture the relationship between changes in these indices and changes in gross loss and recovery rates.  This factor is applied to the output of the method for the reasonable and supportable forecast period of two years.  After the end of this two-year period, we revert to historical experience on a straightline basis over a period of 12 months.  We periodically consider whether the use of alternative metrics would result in improved model performance and revise the model when appropriate.  We also consider whether qualitative adjustments are necessary for factors that are not reflected in the quantitative methods but impact the measurement of estimated credit losses.  Such adjustments include the uncertainty of the impacts of recent economic trends on customer behavior.  The change in the allowance for loan losses is recognized through an adjustment to the provision for loan losses. Determining the appropriateness of the allowance for loan losses requires management to exercise judgment about matters that are inherently uncertain, including the timing and distribution of net losses that could materially affect the allowance for loan losses and, therefore, net earnings.  To the extent that actual performance differs from our estimates, additional provision for 30 credit losses may be required that would reduce net earnings.  A 10% change in the estimated loss rates would have changed the allowance for loan losses by approximately $48.3 million as of February 29, 2024. See Notes 1(H) and 4 for additional information on the allowance for loan losses. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS – CARMAX SALES OPERATIONS AND OTHER NON-REPORTABLE SEGMENTS N ET S ALES AND O PERATING R EVENUES (1) Excludes intersegment sales and operating revenues that have been eliminated in consolidation.  See Note 19 for further details. U NIT S ALES A VERAGE S ELLING P RICES C OMPARABLE S TORE U SED V EHICLE S ALES C HANGES (1) Stores are added to the comparable store base beginning in their fourteenth full month of operation.  We do not remove renovated stores from our comparable store base.  Comparable store calculations include results for a set of stores that were included in our comparable store base in both the current and corresponding prior year periods. 31 V EHICLE S ALES C HANGES U SED V EHICLE F INANCING P ENETRATION BY C HANNEL (B EFORE THE I MPACT OF 3 - D AY P AYOFFS) (1) Calculated as used vehicle units financed for respective channel as a percentage of total used units sold. (2) Includes CAF’s Tier 2 and Tier 3 loan originations, which represent less than 2% of total used units sold. (3) Third-party finance providers who generally pay us a fee or to whom no fee is paid. (4) Third-party finance providers to whom we pay a fee. (5) Represents customers arranging their own financing and customers that do not require financing. C HANGE IN U SED C AR S TORE B ASE During fiscal 2024, we opened 5 stores in existing television markets (Winchester, VA; Algonquin, IL; Victorville, CA; Green Brook, NJ; and Smithtown, NY). Used Vehicle Sales Fiscal 2024 Versus Fiscal 2023. The 9.2% decrease in used vehicle revenues in fiscal 2024 was primarily driven by a 5.2% decrease in used unit sales and a 4.3% decrease in average retail selling price, or approximately $1,200.  The decrease in used units included a 6.7% decrease in comparable store used unit sales.  Online retail sales, as defined previously, accounted for 14% of used unit sales in fiscal 2024, compared with 12% in fiscal 2023. During fiscal 2024, we believe persistent vehicle affordability challenges continued to impact our used unit sales performance, as headwinds remained due to widespread inflationary pressures, higher interest rates, tightened lending standards and prolonged low consumer confidence.  While comparable store used unit sales declined 6.7% compared to the prior year, each quarter of the current fiscal year had year‐over‐year sequential improvement. For the first quarter of fiscal 2025, through mid-April, comparable store used unit sales experienced a mid single-digit decline. The decrease in average retail selling price in fiscal 2024 reflected lower vehicle acquisition costs as well as shifts in the mix of our sales by vehicle age. Wholesale Vehicle Sales Vehicles sold at our wholesale auctions are, on average, approximately 10 years old with more than 100,000 miles and are primarily comprised of vehicles purchased through our appraisal process that do not meet our retail standards.  Our wholesale auction prices usually reflect trends in the general wholesale market for the types of vehicles we sell, although they can also be affected by changes in vehicle mix or the average age, mileage or condition of the vehicles being sold. 32 Fiscal 2024 Versus Fiscal 2023. The 16.9% decrease in wholesale vehicle revenues in fiscal 2024 was primarily due to an 11.8% decrease in average selling price, or approximately $1,200, and a 6.6% decrease in unit sales. The decrease in average selling price in fiscal 2024 was primarily due to shifts in the mix of our sales by vehicle age as well as decreased acquisition costs resulting from steep market depreciation. Other Sales and Revenues Other sales and revenues include revenue from the sale of ESPs and GAP (collectively reported in EPP revenues, net of a reserve for estimated contract cancellations), net third-party finance (fees)/income, advertising and subscription revenues earned by our Edmunds business, and other revenues, which are predominantly comprised of service department sales.  The fees we pay to the Tier 3 providers are reflected as an offset to finance fee revenues received from the Tier 2 providers.  The mix of our retail vehicles financed by CAF, Tier 2 and Tier 3 providers, or customers that arrange their own financing, may vary from quarter to quarter depending on several factors, including the credit quality of applicants, changes in providers’ credit decisioning and external market conditions.  Changes in originations by one tier of credit providers may also affect the originations made by providers in other tiers. Fiscal 2024 Versus Fiscal 2023. Other sales and revenues decreased 3.5% in fiscal 2024, reflecting a decline in EPP revenue and an unfavorable change in net third-party finance (fees)/income.  EPP revenues decreased 4.9%, largely reflecting the decline in our retail unit sales, a decrease in profit sharing revenue recognized in the current year and decreased penetration, partially offset by increased margins and a favorable year-over-year return reserve adjustment.  The change in net third-party finance (fees)/income was the result of lower Tier 2 volume, for which we generally receive a fee. During the the fourth quarter of fiscal 2024, we raised MaxCare margins per contract sold, resulting in a slight decrease in EPP penetration while driving overall profitability.  Our expectation is that this action will drive approximately $20 per retail unit of incremental EPP margin in fiscal 2025. G ROSS P ROFIT (1) Amounts are net of intercompany eliminations. G ROSS P ROFIT P ER U NIT (1) Amounts are net of intercompany eliminations.  Those eliminations had the effect of increasing used vehicle gross profit per unit and wholesale vehicle gross profit per unit and decreasing other gross profit per unit by immaterial amounts. (2) Calculated as category gross profit divided by its respective units sold, except the other category, which is divided by total used units sold. (3) Calculated as a percentage of its respective sales or revenue. 33 Used Vehicle Gross Profit We target a dollar range of gross profit per used unit sold.  The gross profit dollar target for an individual vehicle is based on a variety of factors, including its probability of sale and its mileage relative to its age; however, it is not primarily based on the vehicle’s selling price.  Our ability to quickly adjust appraisal offers to be consistent with the broader market trade-in trends and the pace of our inventory turns reduce our exposure to the inherent continual fluctuation in used vehicle values and contribute to our ability to manage gross profit dollars per unit.  Gross profit per used unit is consistent across our omni-channel platform. We systematically adjust individual vehicle prices based on proprietary pricing algorithms in order to appropriately balance sales trends, inventory turns and gross profit achievement.  Other factors that may influence gross profit include the wholesale and retail vehicle pricing environments, vehicle reconditioning and logistics costs, and the percentage of vehicles sourced directly from consumers and dealers through our appraisal process.  Vehicles purchased directly from consumers and dealers generally have a lower cost per unit compared with vehicles purchased at auction or through other channels, which may generate more gross profit per unit.  In any given period, our gross profit may also be impacted by the age mix of vehicles sold, as older vehicles are generally more profitable.  We monitor macroeconomic factors and pricing elasticity and adjust our pricing accordingly to optimize unit sales and profitability while also maintaining a competitively priced inventory. Fiscal 2024 Versus Fiscal 2023. Used vehicle gross profit decreased 5.2% in fiscal 2024, driven by the 5.2% decrease in total used unit sales.  Used vehicle gross profit per unit in fiscal 2024 was consistent with the prior fiscal year.  We continue to focus on striking the right balance between covering cost increases, maintaining margin and passing along efficiencies to consumers to support vehicle affordability. Wholesale Vehicle Gross Profit Our wholesale gross profit per unit reflects the demand for older, higher mileage vehicles, which are the mainstay of our auctions, as well as strong dealer attendance and resulting high dealer-to-car ratios at our auctions.  The frequency of our auctions, which are generally held weekly or bi-weekly, minimizes the depreciation risk on these vehicles.  Our ability to adjust appraisal offers in response to the wholesale pricing environment is a key factor that influences wholesale gross profit. Fiscal 2024 Versus Fiscal 2023. Wholesale vehicle gross profit decreased 5.6% in fiscal 2024, driven by the 6.6% decrease in wholesale unit sales.  Wholesale vehicle gross profit per unit in fiscal 2024 was in line with the prior fiscal year. Other Gross Profit Other gross profit includes profits related to EPP revenues, net third-party finance (fees)/income, advertising and subscription profits earned by our Edmunds business, and other revenues.  Other revenues are predominantly comprised of service department operations, including used vehicle reconditioning.  We have no cost of sales related to EPP revenues or net third-party finance (fees)/income, as these represent revenues paid to us by certain third-party providers.  Third-party finance income is reported net of the fees we pay to third-party Tier 3 finance providers.  Accordingly, changes in the relative mix of the components of other gross profit can affect the composition and amount of other gross profit. Fiscal 2024 Versus Fiscal 2023. Other gross profit increased 11.7% in fiscal 2024, primarily driven by a $75.3 million improvement in service department margins, partially offset by a decrease in EPP revenues and an unfavorable change in net third-party finance (fees)/income, as discussed above.  The increase in service department profits was driven by efficiency and cost coverage measures that we have put in place.  We expect to continue to see significant year-over-year favorability in service department profits in fiscal 2025.  The extent of the improvement will be governed by sales performance given the leverage/deleverage nature of service. 34 C OMPONENTS OF SG&A E XPENSES AS A P ERCENTAGE OF T OTAL SG&A E XPENSES C OMPONENTS OF SG&A E XPENSES C OMPARED WITH P RIOR P ERIODS (1) (1) Amounts are net of intercompany eliminations. (2) Excludes compensation and benefits related to reconditioning and vehicle repair service, which are included in cost of sales.  See Note 13 for details of share-based compensation expense by grant type. (3) Includes IT expenses, non-CAF bad debt, insurance, travel, charitable contributions, preopening and relocation costs and other administrative expenses. Fiscal 2024 Versus Fiscal 2023 (Decrease of $201.0 million or 8.1% ). Factors contributing to the net decrease include the following: • $155.9 million decrease in other overhead costs, which included a $67.2 million benefit in connection with the receipt of settlement proceeds in a class action lawsuit related to the economic loss associated with vehicles containing Takata airbags.  Other overhead costs were also positively impacted by improvements in non-CAF uncollectable receivables that reflect improved execution at our stores and home office as well as external partners, a reduction in technology spend and favorability in staffing-related costs. • $55.6 million decrease in compensation and benefits, excluding share-based compensation expense, driven by our continued focus in our stores and CECs on driving efficiency gains and aligning staffing levels to sales. • $24.1 million decrease in advertising expense driven by our deliberate efforts to reduce marketing spend to align with sales.  Advertising expense on a per retail unit basis was relatively consistent with the prior year.  For fiscal 2025, we expect the full year spend on a per total unit basis to be consistent with fiscal 2024 at approximately $200. • $30.5 million increase in stock-based compensation expense, primarily related to cash-settled restricted stock units, as the expense associated with these units was primarily driven by the change in the company's stock price during the relevant periods. We anticipate that SG&A will be pressured in the first quarter of fiscal 2025 due to the receipt of $59 million in settlement proceeds during the first quarter of fiscal 2024 as well as the impact of stock-based compensation for certain retirement-eligible executives and the lapping of favorable reserve adjustments related to non-CAF uncollectable receivables, which amounts to approximately $25 million combined. 35 Interest Expense Interest expense includes the interest related to short- and long-term debt, financing obligations and finance lease obligations.  It does not include interest on the non-recourse notes payable, which is reflected within CAF income. Fiscal 2024 Versus Fiscal 2023. Interest expense of $124.8 million in fiscal 2024 was relatively consistent compared with $120.4 million in fiscal 2023. Other Income Other income of $10.3 million in fiscal 2024 was relatively consistent compared with $9.4 million in fiscal 2023. Income Taxes The effective income tax rate was 25.3% in fiscal 2024 compared with 23.9% in fiscal 2023.  The increase in the effective income tax rate was primarily driven by an increase in our state effective tax rate and a decrease in tax credits. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS – CARMAX AUTO FINANCE CAF income primarily reflects interest and fee income generated by CAF’s portfolio of auto loans receivable less the interest expense associated with the debt issued to fund these receivables, a provision for estimated loan losses and direct CAF expenses.  Total interest margin reflects the spread between interest and fees charged to consumers and our funding costs.  Changes in the interest margin on new originations affect CAF income over time.  Increases in interest rates, which affect CAF’s funding costs, or other competitive pressures on consumer rates, could result in compression in the interest margin on new originations.  Changes in the allowance for loan losses as a percentage of ending managed receivables reflect the effect of changes in loss and delinquency experience and economic factors on our outlook for net losses expected to occur over the remaining contractual life of the loans receivable as well as changes in the mix of credit quality originated. CAF’s managed portfolio is composed primarily of loans originated over the past several years.  Trends in receivable growth and interest margins primarily reflect the cumulative effect of changes in the business over a multi-year period.  Historically, we have sought to originate loans in our core portfolio, which excludes Tier 2 and Tier 3 originations, with an underlying risk profile that we believe will, in the aggregate, result in cumulative net losses in the 2% to 2.5% range (excluding CECL-required recovery costs) over the life of the loans.  Actual loss performance of the loans may fall outside of this range based on various factors, including intentional changes in the risk profile of originations, economic conditions and wholesale recovery rates.  Current period originations reflect current trends in both our retail sales and the CAF business, including the volume of loans originated, current interest rates charged to consumers, loan terms and average credit scores.  Loans originated in a given fiscal period impact CAF income over time, as we recognize income over the life of the underlying auto loan. CAF also originates a small portion of auto loans to customers who typically would be financed by our Tier 2 and Tier 3 finance providers, in order to better understand the performance of these loans, mitigate risk and add incremental profits.  Historically, CAF has targeted originating approximately 5% of the total Tier 3 loan volume, which we increased to 10% during fiscal 2022 and throughout most of fiscal 2023.  In response to the current environment, CAF adjusted its underwriting standards, including, towards the end of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2023, reducing its targeted percentage of Tier 3 volume from 10% to 5%.  During the second quarter of fiscal 2024, CAF further adjusted its targeted percentage of Tier 3 volume to less than 5%.  Within the Tier 2 space, CAF continues to originate loans on a test basis and we slightly increased our investment in this space starting in the second quarter of fiscal 2024.  Any future adjustments in Tier 2 and Tier 3 will consider the broader lending environment, which includes funding availability, along with the long-term sustainability of the change.  These loans have higher loss and delinquency rates than the remainder of the CAF portfolio, as well as higher contract rates. CAF income does not include any allocation of indirect costs.  Although CAF benefits from certain indirect overhead expenditures, we have not allocated indirect costs to CAF to avoid making subjective allocation decisions.  Examples of indirect costs not allocated to CAF include retail store expenses and corporate expenses. See Note 3 for additional information on CAF income and Note 4 for information on auto loans receivable, including credit quality. 36 S ELECTED CAF F INANCIAL I NFORMATION (1) Percent of total average managed receivables. CAF O RIGINATION I NFORMATION (A FTER THE I MPACT OF 3 - D AY P AYOFFS) (1) Vehicle units financed as a percentage of total used units sold. (2) The credit scores represent FICO® scores and reflect only receivables with obligors that have a FICO® score at the time of application.  The FICO® score with respect to any receivable with co-obligors is calculated as the average of each obligor’s FICO® score at the time of application.  FICO® scores are not a significant factor in our primary scoring model, which relies on information from credit bureaus and other application information as discussed in Note 4.  FICO® is a federally registered servicemark of Fair Isaac Corporation. (3) LTV represents the ratio of the amount financed to the total collateral value, which is measured as the vehicle selling price plus applicable taxes, title and fees. L OAN P ERFORMANCE I NFORMATION (1) The average recovery rate represents the average percentage of the outstanding principal balance we receive when a vehicle is repossessed and liquidated, generally at our wholesale auctions.  While in any individual period conditions may vary, over the past 10 fiscal years, the annual recovery rate has ranged from a low of 46% to a high of 71%, and it is primarily affected by the wholesale market environment. 37 Fiscal 2024 Versus Fiscal 2023. • CAF income decreased $95.1 million, or 14.3%, reflecting a decrease in the net interest margin percentage, partially offset by an increase in average managed receivables and a decrease in the provision for loan losses. • Total interest margin decreased as a percentage of average managed receivables to 6.0% in fiscal 2024 compared with 6.9% in fiscal 2023.  The decrease was primarily driven by higher funding costs as well as an unfavorable impact of swaps not designated as hedges for accounting purposes, partially offset by higher customer rates.  While total interest margin decreased year‐over‐year, it was relatively consistent each quarter throughout fiscal 2024. • Provision for Loan Losses ◦ The current year provision of $310.5 million decreased slightly from the prior year provision of $317.0 million. ◦ The allowance for loan losses as a percentage of ending managed receivables was 2.78% as of February 29, 2024 compared with 3.02% as of February 28, 2023.  The decrease in the allowance percentage from the prior year primarily reflects CAF's tightened underwriting standards in response to the current environment, partially offset by CAF's continued investment in the Tier 2 business as well as unfavorable loss performance. • Loan Performance ◦ The decline in net loan originations in fiscal 2024 resulted from decreases in used unit sales and the average amount financed, partially offset by an increase in the net penetration rate. ◦ CAF net penetration for fiscal 2024 increased compared to the prior fiscal year, primarily reflecting changes in the underlying credit mix of customers applying for financing. ◦ The weighted average contract rate increased to 11.2% in fiscal 2024, compared with 9.7% in the prior year.  The increase was primarily due to higher rates charged to customers in response to the current interest rate environment. ◦ The increase in past due accounts as a percentage of ending managed receivables for fiscal 2024 reflects an increase in delinquencies as well as our expansion of Tier 2 originations within CAF's portfolio.  The increase in delinquencies primarily reflects customer hardship in the current economic environment. PLANNED FUTURE ACTIVITIES We anticipate opening a total of seven locations in fiscal 2025, including five stores, one stand-alone reconditioning center and one stand-alone auction facility.  We currently estimate capital expenditures will total between $500 million and $550 million in fiscal 2025.  Capital expenditures were $465.3 million in fiscal 2024.  The year-over-year increase in planned spending is primarily related to the timing of spend for new stores.  Planned capital spending in fiscal 2025 largely consists of spending to support our future long-term growth in stand-alone reconditioning and auction facilities, as well as our new stores. RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS See Note 1(X) to the consolidated financial statements for information on recent accounting pronouncements applicable to CarMax. FINANCIAL CONDITION Liquidity and Capital Resources Our primary ongoing cash requirements are to fund our existing operations, store expansion and improvement, CAF and strategic growth initiatives.  Since fiscal 2013, we have also elected to use cash for our share repurchase program.  Our primary ongoing sources of liquidity include funds provided by operations, proceeds from non-recourse funding vehicles and borrowings under our revolving credit facility or through other financing sources. Our current capital allocation strategy is to focus on our core business.  Given our recent performance and continued market uncertainties, we are taking a conservative approach to our capital structure in order to maintain the flexibility that allows us to efficiently access the capital markets for both CAF and CarMax as a whole.  We have taken steps to better align our expenses to sales as well as slowed the rate of our store growth.  We resumed our share repurchases during the third quarter of fiscal 2024 after a pause initiated during the third quarter of the prior fiscal year.  For fiscal 2025, we intend to modestly accelerate the pace of our share repurchases above the pace that we implemented in the third quarter of fiscal 2024.  We believe we have the appropriate liquidity, access to capital and financial strength to support our operations and continue investing in our strategic initiatives for the next twelve months and thereafter for the foreseeable future. 38 We are party to contractual obligations involving commitments to make payments to third parties.  These obligations impact our liquidity and capital resource needs.  Our contractual obligations primarily consist of long-term debt and related interest payments, leases, purchase obligations and commitments, income taxes and defined benefit retirement plans.  See Notes 12 and 16 for amounts outstanding as of February 29, 2024 related to debt and leases, respectively. Our contractual obligations related to income taxes represent the net unrecognized tax benefits related to uncertain tax positions.  See Note 10 for information related to income taxes.  Our contractual obligations related to defined benefit retirement plans represent the funded status recognized as of February 29, 2024.  See Note 11 for information related to these plans. Purchase obligations and commitments consist of certain enforceable and legally binding obligations related to real estate purchases, third-party outsourcing services and advertising.  As of February 29, 2024, our purchase obligations and commitments were approximately $428.2 million, of which $213.3 million are due in fiscal 2025.  The majority of the remaining purchase obligations and commitments are due within the next three years. We have historically managed leverage based on a number of factors, including internal financial forecasts, consideration of CAF’s operational and capital needs, external peer benchmarking, requirements of our debt agreements and macroeconomic conditions.  Generally, we expect to use our revolving credit facility and other financing sources, together with stock repurchases, to maintain a leverage profile that ensures operating flexibility while supporting continued investment in the business. Operating Activities .  During fiscal 2024, net cash provided by operating activities totaled $458.6 million compared with $1.28 billion in fiscal 2023. As of February 29, 2024, total inventory was $3.68 billion, representing a decrease of $48.1 million, or 1.3%, compared with the balance as of the start of the fiscal year.  The decrease was primarily due to a decline in the average carrying cost of inventory driven by the net impacts of depreciation during the current fiscal year and shifts in the mix of vehicle units from non-saleable to saleable due to operational efficiencies. Our operating cash flows are significantly impacted by changes in auto loans receivable, which increased $980.6 million in fiscal 2024 compared with $1.37 billion in fiscal 2023.  The majority of the changes in auto loans receivable are accompanied by changes in non-recourse notes payable, which are issued to fund auto loans originated by CAF.  Net issuances of non-recourse notes payable were $506.9 million in fiscal 2024 compared with $893.3 million in fiscal 2023 and are separately reflected as cash from financing activities.  Due to the presentation differences between auto loans receivable and non-recourse notes payable on the consolidated statements of cash flows, fluctuations in these amounts can have a significant impact on our operating and financing cash flows without affecting our overall liquidity, working capital or cash flows. The change in net cash provided by operating activities for fiscal 2024 compared with fiscal 2023 reflected the decrease in inventory, as discussed above, combined with the prior year decrease in inventory, partially offset by the changes in auto loans receivable, as well as the net impact of volume and timing-related changes in accounts receivable and accounts payable. Investing Activities .  Net cash used in investing activities totaled $467.0 million in fiscal 2024 compared with $425.8 million in fiscal 2023.  Capital expenditures were $465.3 million in fiscal 2024 versus $422.7 million in fiscal 2023.  Capital expenditures primarily included land purchases and construction costs to support our growth capacity initiatives and new store openings as well as investments in technology.  We maintain a multi-year pipeline of sites to support our store and capacity growth, so portions of capital spending in one year may relate to locations that we open in subsequent fiscal years. Financing Activities .  Net cash provided by financing activities was $307.8 million in fiscal 2024, compared with net cash used in financing activities of $710.2 million in fiscal 2023.  Included in these amounts were net issuances of non-recourse notes payable of $506.9 million in fiscal 2024 compared with $893.3 million in the prior year.  Non-recourse notes payable are typically used to fund changes in auto loans receivable (see “Operating Activities”). During fiscal 2024, cash provided by financing activities was impacted by stock repurchases of $94.1 million as well as net payments on our long-term debt of $111.5 million.  During fiscal 2023, cash used in financing activities was impacted by stock repurchases of $333.9 million as well as net payments on our long-term debt of $1.25 billion. 39 T OTAL D EBT AND C ASH AND C ASH E QUIVALENTS (1) Interest is payable monthly, with the exception of our senior notes, which are payable semi-annually. (2) Borrowings accrue interest at variable rates based on SOFR, the federal funds rate, or the prime rate, depending on the type of borrowing. (3) Total debt excludes unamortized debt issuance costs.  See Note 12 for additional information. Borrowings under our $2.00 billion unsecured revolving credit facility are available for working capital and general corporate purposes, and the unused portion is fully available to us.  The credit facility, term loans and senior note agreements contain representations and warranties, conditions and covenants.  If these requirements are not met, all amounts outstanding or otherwise owed could become due and payable immediately and other limitations could be placed on our ability to use any available borrowing capacity.  As of February 29, 2024, we were in compliance with these financial covenants. See Note 12 for additional information on our revolving credit facility, term loans, senior notes and financing obligations. CAF auto loans receivable are primarily funded through our warehouse facilities and asset-backed term funding transactions.  These non-recourse funding vehicles are structured to legally isolate the auto loans receivable, and we would not expect to be able to access the assets of our non-recourse funding vehicles, even in insolvency, receivership or conservatorship proceedings.  Similarly, the investors in the non-recourse notes payable have no recourse to our assets beyond the related receivables, the amounts on deposit in reserve accounts and the restricted cash from collections on auto loans receivable.  We do, however, continue to have the rights associated with the interest we retain in these non-recourse funding vehicles. As of February 29, 2024, $13.13 billion and $3.74 billion of non-recourse notes payable were outstanding related to asset-backed term funding transactions and our warehouse facilities, respectively.  During fiscal 2024, we funded a total of $6.63 billion in asset-backed term funding transactions.  As of February 29, 2024, we had $2.06 billion of unused capacity in our warehouse facilities. We have periodically increased our warehouse facility limit over time, as our store base, sales and CAF loan originations have grown.  See Notes 1(F) and 12 for additional information on the warehouse facilities. We generally repurchase the receivables funded through our warehouse facilities when we enter into an asset-backed term funding transaction.  If our counterparties were to refuse to permit these repurchases it could impact our ability to execute on our funding program.  Additionally, the agreements related to the warehouse facilities include various representations and warranties, as well as covenants and performance triggers related to events of default.  If these requirements are not met, we could be unable to continue to fund receivables through the warehouse facilities.  In addition, warehouse facility investors could charge us a higher rate of interest and could have us replaced as servicer.  Further, we could be required to deposit collections on the related receivables with the warehouse facility agents on a daily basis and deliver executed lockbox agreements to the warehouse facility agents. The timing and amount of stock repurchases are determined based on stock price, market conditions, legal requirements and other factors.  Shares repurchased are deemed authorized but unissued shares of common stock.  As of February 29, 2024, a total of $4 billion of board authorizations for repurchases was outstanding, with no expiration date, of which $2.36 billion remained available for repurchase.  During the third quarter of fiscal 2024, we resumed our share repurchases after a pause initiated during the third quarter of the prior fiscal year.  See Note 13 for more information on share repurchase activity. 40 Fair Value Measurements. We recognize money market securities, mutual fund investments, certain equity investments and derivative instruments at fair value.  See Note 6 for more information on fair value measurements.