********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

​ There are risks and uncertainties that can affect our business.  The significant risk factors are discussed below.  The following information should be read together with “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” which includes forward-looking statements and factors that could cause us not to realize our goals or meet our expectations. ​ 11 OUR PROPOSED TRANSACTION WITH ALBERTSONS CREATES INCREMENTAL BUSINESS, REGULATORY AND REPUTATIONAL RISKS ​ On October 13, 2022, we entered into a merger agreement with Albertsons Companies Inc. (“Albertsons”), which sets forth the terms of our proposed transaction. The proposed transaction with Albertsons entails important risks, including, among others: the expected timing and likelihood of completion of the proposed transaction, including the timing, receipt and terms and conditions of any required governmental and regulatory clearance of the proposed transaction; the effect and terms and conditions of any potential divestitures, including those that may be imposed by regulators as a condition to the approval of the proposed transaction, and/or the separation of SpinCo (as described in the merger agreement); the occurrence of any event, change or other circumstances that could give rise to the termination of the merger agreement; the outcome of any legal proceedings that have been instituted and may in the future be instituted against the parties and others following announcement of the merger agreement and proposed transaction; the inability to consummate the proposed transaction due to the failure to satisfy other conditions to complete the proposed transaction; risks that the proposed transaction disrupts our current plans and operations; the ability to identify and recognize, including on the expected timeline, the anticipated total shareholder return (“TSR”), revenue and EBITDA expectations; the amount of the costs, fees, expenses and charges related to the proposed transaction; the risk that transaction and/or integration costs are greater than expected, including as a result of conditions regulators put on any approvals of the transaction; the potential effect of the announcement and/or consummation of the proposed transaction on relationships, including with associates, suppliers and competitors; our ability to maintain an investment grade credit rating; the risk that management’s attention is diverted from other matters; risks related to the potential effect of general economic, political and market factors, including changes in the financial markets as a result of inflation or measures implemented to address inflation, and any epidemic, pandemic or disease outbreaks, on Kroger, Albertsons or the proposed transaction; the risk of adverse effects on the market price of our or Albertsons’s securities or on Albertsons’s or the Company’s operating results for any reason; the occurrence of any event, change or other circumstances that could give rise to the termination of the merger agreement; and other risks described in our filings with the SEC. ​ INTEGRATION OF NEW BUSINESS AND STRATEGIC ALLIANCES ​ In addition to the above, we enter into mergers, acquisitions and strategic alliances with expected benefits including, among other things, operating efficiencies, procurement savings, innovation and sharing of best practices, that may allow for future growth.  Achieving the anticipated or desired benefits may be subject to a number of significant challenges and uncertainties, including, without limitation, whether unique corporate cultures will work collaboratively in an efficient and effective manner, the coordination of geographically separate organizations, the possibility of imprecise assumptions underlying expectations regarding potential synergies, capital requirements, and the integration process, unforeseen expenses and delays, and competitive factors in the marketplace.  We could also encounter unforeseen transaction and integration-related costs or other circumstances such as unforeseen liabilities or other issues.  Many of these potential circumstances are outside of our control and any of them could result in increased costs, decreased revenue, decreased synergies and the diversion of management time and attention.  If we are unable to achieve our objectives within the anticipated time frame, or at all, the expected benefits may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. ​ COMPETITIVE ENVIRONMENT ​ The operating environment for the food retailing industry continues to be characterized by the fragmentation of local, regional, and national retailers, including both retail and digital formats, intense competition and entry of non-traditional competitors.  Customer behavior shifted quickly and considerably during the pandemic, including a shift from food away from home to food at home. We see three major trends shaping the industry: e-commerce, cooking at home and prepared foods to go. If we do not appropriately or accurately anticipate customer preferences or fail to quickly adapt to these changing preferences, or if trends shift more quickly to food away from home, our sales and profitability could be adversely affected.  If we fail to meet the evolving needs of our customers, our ability to compete and our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected. ​ 12 We are continuing to enhance the customer connection with investments in our four strategic pillars – Seamless, Personalization, Fresh, and Our Brands . Each of these are strategies designed to better serve our customers and to generate customer loyalty and sustainable growth momentum. We believe our plans to continue to improve these four strategic pillars will enable us to meet the wide-ranging needs and expectations of our customers.  If we are unable to continue to enhance the foregoing key elements of our connection with customers, or they fail to strengthen customer loyalty, our ability to compete and our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected.  Our ecosystem monetizes the traffic and data insights generated by our retail supermarket business to create fast-growing, asset-light and margin rich revenue streams. We may be unsuccessful in implementing our alternative profit strategy, which could adversely affect our business growth and our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.  The nature and extent to which our competitors respond to the evolving and competitive industry by developing and implementing their competitive strategies could adversely affect our profitability. ​ In addition, evolving customer preferences and the advancement of online, delivery, ship to home, and mobile channels in our industry increase the competitive environment. We must anticipate and meet these evolving customer preferences and continue to implement technology, software and processes to be able to conveniently and cost-effectively fulfill customer orders.  Providing flexible fulfillment options and implementing new technology is complex and may not meet customer preferences.  If we are not successful in reducing or offsetting the cost of fulfilling orders outside of our traditional in-store channel with efficiencies, cost-savings, expense reductions, or alternative revenues, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected. ​ In addition, if we do not successfully develop and maintain a relevant digital experience for our customers, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected. Digital retailing is rapidly evolving, and we must keep pace with new developments by our competitors as well as the evolving needs and preferences of our customers. Our digital business accelerated significantly during the COVID-19 pandemic. We must compete by offering a convenient shopping experience for our customers regardless of how they choose to shop with us, and by investing in, providing and maintaining relevant customer-facing apps and interfaces that have the features customers want that are also reliable and easy to use. The future success of the digital business will also depend on the efficiency and cost effectiveness of fulfilling orders across our modalities, whether in store, in pickup-only locations, or through customer fulfillment centers powered by Ocado. ​ PRODUCT SAFETY ​ Customers count on Kroger to provide them with safe food and drugs and other merchandise.  Concerns regarding the safety of the products that we sell could cause shoppers to avoid purchasing certain products from us, or to seek alternative sources of supply even if the basis for the concern is outside of our control.  Any lost confidence on the part of our customers would be difficult and costly to reestablish.  We could be adversely affected by personal injury or product liability claims, product recalls, or other health and safety issues, which occur from time to time. If we sell products that cause illness or injury to customers, resulting from product contamination or spoilage, the presence of certain substances, or damage caused in handling, storage or transportation, we could be exposed to claims or litigation. Any issue regarding the safety of items, whether Our Brands items manufactured by the Company or for the Company or CPG products we sell, regardless of the cause, could have a substantial and adverse effect on our reputation, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. ​ EMPLOYEE MATTERS ​ A majority of our associates are covered by collective bargaining agreements with unions, and our relationship with those unions, including a prolonged work stoppage affecting a substantial number of locations, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. We are a party to approximately 310 collective bargaining agreements.  Upon the expiration of our collective bargaining agreements, work stoppages by the affected workers could occur (and have occurred in the past) if we are unable to negotiate new contracts with labor unions.  In addition, changes to national labor policy could affect labor relations with our associates and relationships with unions. Further, if we are unable to control health care, pension and wage costs, or if we have insufficient operational flexibility under our collective bargaining agreements, we may experience increased operating costs and an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. ​ 13 We have committed to paying fair wages and providing the benefits that were collectively bargained with the United Food and Commercial Workers (“UFCW”) and other labor unions representing associates. Our ability to control labor and benefit costs is subject to numerous internal and external factors, including regulatory changes, wage rates, and healthcare and other insurance costs. Changes to wage regulations, including further increases in the minimum wage and extra pay ordinances enacted by local governments, could have an impact on our future financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.  Our ability to meet our labor needs, while controlling wages and other costs, is subject to numerous external factors, including the available qualified workforce in each area where we are located, unemployment levels within those areas, wage rates, and changes in employment and labor laws. ​ Our continued success depends on the ongoing contributions of our associates, including members of our senior management and other key personnel. We must recruit, hire, develop and retain qualified associates with an increasingly large range of skills to meet the needs of our evolving and complex business. We compete with other retail and non-retail businesses for these associates and invest significant resources in training and motivating them. Competition among potential employers has resulted, and may in the future result, in increased associate costs and has from time to time affected our ability to recruit and retain associates.  There is no assurance that we will be able to attract or retain sufficient highly qualified associates in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. ​ DATA AND TECHNOLOGY ​ Our business is increasingly dependent on information technology systems that are complex and vital to continuing operations, resulting in an expansion of our technological presence and corresponding risk exposure.  If we were to experience difficulties maintaining or operating existing systems or implementing new systems, we could incur significant losses due to disruptions in our operations.  As we modernize legacy systems, if we are unable to successfully implement those systems in a coordinated manner across internal and external stakeholders, we could be subject to business interruption or reputation risk with our customers, suppliers or associates. ​ Through our sales and marketing activities, we collect and store some personal information that our customers provide to us. We also gather and retain information about our associates in the normal course of business. Under certain circumstances, we may share information with vendors that assist us in conducting our business, as required by law, or otherwise in accordance with our privacy policy. ​ Our technology systems have been, and may be in the future, disrupted from circumstances beyond our control, as we regularly defend against and respond to data security incidents.  Cyber-attackers have targeted and accessed, and may in the future again target and, if successful, access, information stored in our or our vendors’ systems in order to misappropriate confidential customer or business information.  Due to the ongoing war between Russia and Ukraine, there is an increased possibility of cyberattacks that could either directly or indirectly affect our operations.  Although we have implemented procedures to protect our information, and require our vendors to do the same, we cannot be certain that our security systems will successfully defend against, or be able to effectively respond to, rapidly evolving, increasingly sophisticated cyber-attacks as they become more difficult to detect and defend against.  Further, a Kroger associate, a contractor or other third party with whom we do business may in the future circumvent our security measures in order to obtain information or may inadvertently cause a breach involving information.  In addition, hardware, software or applications we may use may have inherent defects, vulnerabilities, or could be inadvertently or intentionally applied or used in a way that could compromise our information security. ​ 14 Our cybersecurity program, continued investment in our information technology systems, and our processes to evaluate and select vendors with reasonable information security controls may not effectively insulate us from potential attacks, data breaches or disruptions to our business operations, which could result in a loss of customers or business information, negative publicity, damage to our reputation, and exposure to claims from customers, financial institutions, regulatory authorities, payment card associations, associates and other persons.  Any such events could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows and may not be covered by our insurance. In addition, compliance with privacy and information security laws and standards may result in significant expense due to increased investment in technology and the development of new operational processes and may require us to devote significant management resources to address these issues.  The costs of attempting to protect against the foregoing risks and the costs of responding to cyber-attacks are significant. Following a cyber-attack, our and/or our vendors’ remediation efforts may not be successful, and a cyber-attack could result in interruptions, delays or cessation of service, and loss of existing or potential customers.  In addition, breaches of our and/or our vendors’ security measures and the unauthorized dissemination of sensitive personal information or confidential information about us or our customers could expose our customers’ private information and our customers to the risk of financial or medical identity theft, or expose us or other third parties to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, and result in investigations, regulatory enforcement actions, material fines and penalties, loss of customers and business relationships, litigation or other actions which could have a material adverse effect on our brands, reputation, business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. ​ Data governance failures can adversely affect our reputation and business. Our business depends on our customers’ willingness to entrust us with their personal information. Events that adversely affect that trust, including inadequate disclosure to our customers of our uses of their information, failures to honor new and evolving data privacy rights, failing to keep our information technology systems and our customers’ sensitive information secure from significant attack, theft, damage, loss or unauthorized disclosure or access, whether as a result of our action or inaction (including human error) or that of our business associates, vendors or other third parties, could adversely affect our brand and reputation and operating results and also could expose and/or has exposed us to mandatory disclosure to the media, litigation (including class action litigation), governmental investigations and enforcement proceedings, material fines, penalties and/or remediation costs, and compensatory, special, punitive and statutory damages, consent orders, and/or injunctive relief, any of which could adversely affect our businesses, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Large scale data breaches at other entities, including supply chain security vulnerabilities, increase the challenge we and our vendors face in maintaining the security of our information technology systems and proprietary information and of our customers’ information. There can be no assurance that such failures will not occur, or if any do occur, that we will detect them or that they can be sufficiently remediated. ​ The use of data by our business and our business associates is highly regulated.  Privacy and information-security laws and regulations change, and compliance with them may result in cost increases due to, among other things, systems changes and the development of new processes. If we, our third party service providers, or those with whom we share information fail to comply with laws and regulations, or self-regulatory regimes, that apply to all or parts of our business, such as section 5 of the FTC Act, the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA), the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), or applicable international laws such as the EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), our reputation could be damaged, possibly resulting in lost business, and we could be subjected to additional legal risk or financial losses as a result of non-compliance. ​ 15 PAYMENT SYSTEMS ​ We accept payments using a variety of methods, including cash and checks, select credit and debit cards, and Kroger Pay, a mobile payment solution.  As we offer new payment options to our customers, we may be subject to additional rules, regulations, compliance requirements, and higher fraud losses. For certain payment methods, we pay interchange and other related acceptance fees, along with additional transaction processing fees. We rely on third parties to provide payment transaction processing services for credit and debit cards. It could disrupt our business if these companies become unwilling or unable to provide these services to us, including due to short term disruption of service. We are also subject to evolving payment card association and network operating rules, including data security rules, certification requirements and rules governing electronic funds transfers. For example, we are subject to Payment Card Industry Data Security Standards (“PCI DSS”), which contain compliance guidelines and standards with regard to our security surrounding the physical and electronic storage, processing and transmission of individual cardholder data. If our payment card terminals or internal systems are breached or compromised, we may be liable for card re-issuance costs and other costs, subject to fines and higher transaction fees, and lose our ability to accept card payments from our members, or if our third-party service providers’ systems are breached or compromised, our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected. ​ INDEBTEDNESS ​ Our indebtedness could reduce our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, mergers and acquisitions or other purposes and could make us vulnerable to future economic downturns as well as competitive pressures.  If debt markets do not permit us to refinance certain maturing debt, we may be required to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our indebtedness.  Changes in our credit ratings, or in the interest rate environment, could have an adverse effect on our financing costs and structure. ​ LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND INSURANCE ​ From time to time, we are a party to legal proceedings, including matters involving personnel and employment issues, personal injury, contract disputes, regulatory claims and other proceedings.  Other legal proceedings purport to be brought as class actions on behalf of similarly situated parties.  Some of these proceedings could result in a substantial loss to Kroger.  We estimate our exposure to these legal proceedings and establish accruals for the estimated liabilities, where it is reasonably possible to estimate and where an adverse outcome is probable.  Assessing and predicting the outcome of these matters involves substantial uncertainties.  Adverse outcomes in these legal proceedings, or changes in our evaluations or predictions about the proceedings, could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.  Please also refer to the “Litigation” section in Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. ​ We use a combination of insurance and self-insurance to provide for potential liability for workers’ compensation, automobile and general liability, property, director and officers’ liability, cyber risk exposure and associate health care benefits.  Any actuarial projection of losses is subject to a high degree of variability. With respect to insured matters, we are liable for retention amounts that vary by the nature of the claim, and some losses may not be covered by insurance. Changes in legal claims, trends and interpretations, variability in inflation rates, changes in the nature and method of claims settlement, benefit level changes due to changes in applicable laws, insolvency of insurance carriers, and changes in discount rates could all affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. ​ 16 MULTI-EMPLOYER PENSION OBLIGATIONS ​ As discussed in more detail below in “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Critical Accounting Policies-Multi-Employer Pension Plans,” Kroger contributes to several multi-employer pension plans based on obligations arising under collective bargaining agreements with unions representing associates covered by those agreements.  We believe the present value of actuarially accrued liabilities in most of these multi-employer plans exceeds the value of the assets held in trust to pay benefits, and we expect that Kroger’s contributions to most of these funds will increase over the next few years.  A significant increase to those funding requirements could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.  Despite the fact that the pension obligations of these funds are not the liability or responsibility of the Company, except as noted below, there is a risk that the agencies that rate our outstanding debt instruments could view the underfunded nature of these plans unfavorably, or adjust their current views unfavorably, when determining their ratings on our debt securities.  Any downgrading of our debt ratings likely would adversely affect our cost of borrowing and access to capital. ​ We also currently bear the investment risk of two multi-employer pension plans in which we participate.  In addition, we have been designated as the named fiduciary of these funds with sole investment authority of the assets of these funds.  If investment results fail to meet our expectations, we could be required to make additional contributions to fund a portion of or the entire shortfall, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. ​ FUEL ​ We sell a significant amount of fuel in our 1,637 fuel centers, which could face increased regulation, including due to climate change or other environmental concerns, and demand could be affected by concerns about the effect of emissions on the environment as well as retail price increases.  We are unable to predict future regulations, environmental effects, political unrest, acts of war or terrorism, disruptions to the economy, including but not limited to the COVID-19 pandemic, the war between Russia and Ukraine, and other matters that affect the cost and availability of fuel, and how our customers will react to such factors, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. ​ ECONOMIC CONDITIONS ​ Our operating results could be materially affected by changes in overall economic conditions and other economic factors that impact consumer confidence and spending, including discretionary spending.  Future economic conditions affecting disposable consumer income such as employment levels, business conditions, overall economic slowdown or recession, changes in housing market conditions, changes in government benefits such as SNAP/EBT or child care credits, the availability of credit, interest rates, inflation or deflation, tax rates and other matters could reduce consumer spending.  Inflation could materially affect our operating results through increases to our cost of goods, supply chain costs and labor costs.  In addition, the economic factors listed above, or any other economic factors or circumstances resulting in higher transportation, labor, insurance or healthcare costs or commodity prices, and other economic factors can increase our merchandise costs and operating, general and administrative expenses and otherwise adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.  Increased fuel prices also have an effect on consumer spending and on our costs of producing and procuring products that we sell.  A deterioration in overall economic conditions, including the uncertainty caused by inflation rate volatility, could adversely affect our business in many ways, including slowing sales growth, reducing overall sales and reducing gross margins.  We regularly maintain cash balances at third-party financial institutions in excess of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”) insurance limit and are therefore reliant on banks and other financial institutions to safeguard and allow ready access to these assets.  If banks or financial institutions enter receivership or become insolvent in the future in response to financial conditions affecting the banking system and financial markets, our ability to access our existing cash, cash equivalents and investments may be threatened.  We are unable to predict how the global economy and financial markets will perform.  If the global economy and financial markets do not perform as we expect, it could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. ​ 17 COVID-19 ​ COVID-19 has impacted and may continue to impact our business, including our supply chain, store operations and merchandising functions, as well as our associates. While our operations have generally stabilized since the peak of the pandemic, we cannot predict with certainty the extent that our operations may continue to be impacted by any continuing effects of COVID-19 on us or on our customers, suppliers, vendors, and other business partners, and each of their financial conditions; however, any adverse effect on these parties could materially and adversely impact us.  To the extent that COVID-19 continues to affect the U.S. and global economy and our business, it may also heighten other risks described in this section, including but not limited to those related to consumer behavior and expectations, competition, implementation of strategic initiatives, cybersecurity threats, payment-related risks, supply chain disruptions, labor availability and cost, litigation and operational risk as a result of regulatory requirements. ​ LEGAL AND GOVERNMENT REGULATION ​ We are subject to various laws, regulations, and administrative practices that affect our business, including laws and regulations involving antitrust and competition, privacy, data protection, environmental, healthcare, anti-bribery, anti-corruption, tax, accounting, and financial reporting or other matters.  These and other rapidly changing laws, regulations, policies and related interpretations, as well as increased enforcement actions by various governmental and regulatory agencies, create challenges for the Company, may alter the environment in which we do business and may increase the ongoing costs of compliance, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. If we are unable to continue to meet these challenges and comply with all laws, regulations, policies and related interpretations, it could negatively affect our reputation and our business results. Additionally, we are currently, and in the future may be, subject to a number of inquiries, investigations, claims, proceeding, and requests for information from governmental agencies or private parties, the adverse outcomes of which could harm our business. Failure to successfully manage these new or pending regulatory and legal matters and resolve such matters without significant liability or damage to our reputation may adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Furthermore, if new or pending legal or regulatory matters result in fines or costs in excess of the amounts accrued to date, that may also materially affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. ​ In addition, increasing governmental and societal attention to environmental, social, and governance (ESG) matters, including expanding voluntary reporting, diligence, and disclosure on topics such as climate change, waste production, water usage, human capital, labor, and risk oversight, could expand the nature, scope, and complexity of matters that we are required to control, assess, and report and could negatively affect the Company’s reputation. ​ Additionally, we must comply with numerous provisions regulating, among other things, health and sanitation standards, food labeling and safety, equal employment opportunity, minimum wages and licensing for the sale of food, drugs, and alcoholic beverages. We cannot predict future laws, regulations, interpretations, administrative orders, or applications, or the effect they will have on our operations. They could, however, significantly increase the cost of doing business.  They also could require the reformulation of some of the products that we sell (or manufacture for sale to third parties) to meet new standards.  We also could be required to recall or discontinue the sale of products that cannot be reformulated.  These changes could result in additional record keeping, expanded documentation of the properties of certain products, expanded or different labeling, or scientific substantiation. Any or all of these requirements could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. ​ WEATHER, NATURAL DISASTERS AND OTHER EVENTS ​ A large number of our stores, distribution facilities and fulfillment centers are geographically located in areas that are susceptible to hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, droughts, ice and snow storms and earthquakes.  Weather conditions and natural disasters have, and may again in the future, disrupt our operations at one or more of our facilities, interrupt the delivery of products to our stores, substantially increase the cost of products, including supplies and materials and substantially increase the cost of energy needed to operate our facilities or deliver products to our facilities.  Moreover, the effects of climate change, including those associated with extreme weather events, may affect our ability to procure needed commodities at costs and in quantities that are optimal for us or at all.  Adverse weather, natural disasters, geopolitical and catastrophic events, such as war, civil unrest, acts of terrorism or other acts of violence, including active shooter situations (which have occurred in the past at our locations), or pandemics, such as the spread of COVID-19, or other future pandemics and other matters that could reduce consumer spending, could materially affect our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 18 CLIMATE IMPACT ​ The long-term effects of global climate change present both physical risks, such as extreme weather conditions or rising sea levels, and transition risks, such as regulatory or technology changes, which are expected to be widespread and unpredictable. These changes could over time affect, for example, the availability and cost of products, commodities and energy including utilities, which in turn may impact our ability to procure goods or services required for the operation of our business at the quantities and levels we require. In addition, many of our operations and facilities are in locations that may be affected by the physical risks of climate change, and we face the risk of losses incurred as a result of physical damage to stores, distribution or fulfillment centers, loss or spoilage of inventory and business interruption caused by such events. We also use natural gas, diesel fuel, gasoline and electricity in our operations, all of which could face increased regulation and cost increases as a result of climate change or other environmental concerns. Transitioning to alternative energy sources, such as renewable electricity or electric vehicles, and investments in new technologies, could incur higher costs.  Regulations limiting greenhouse gas emissions and energy inputs will also increase in coming years, which may increase our costs associated with compliance, tracking, reporting, and sourcing. These events and their impacts could otherwise disrupt and adversely affect our operations and could have an adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. ​ SUPPLY CHAIN ​ Disruption in our global supply chain could negatively affect our business. The products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international vendors, and any future disruption in our supply chain or inability to find qualified vendors and access products that meet requisite quality and safety standards in a timely and efficient manner could adversely affect our business. The loss or disruption of such supply arrangements for any reason, labor disputes, loss or impairment of key manufacturing sites, acts of war or terrorism, disruptive global political events, such as the ongoing war between Russia and Ukraine, quality control issues, a supplier’s financial distress, natural disasters or health crises, including the COVID-19 pandemic, regulatory actions or ethical sourcing issues, trade sanctions or other external factors over which we have no control, could interrupt product supply and, if not effectively managed and remedied, have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. ​

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

​ The following discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations of The Kroger Co. should be read in conjunction with the “Forward-looking Statements” section set forth in Part I and the “Risk Factors” section set forth in Item 1A of Part I.  MD&A is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying notes thereto contained in Item 8 of this report, as well as Part II, Item 7 “Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” of our Form 10-K for the year ended January 29, 2022, which provides additional information on comparisons of fiscal years 2021 and 2020.  Kroger is unable to provide a full reconciliation of forward-looking GAAP and non-GAAP measures used in this Annual Report on Form 10-K without unreasonable effort because it is not possible to predict certain of our adjustment items with a reasonable degree of certainty. This information is dependent upon future events and may be outside of our control and its unavailability could have a significant effect on future financial results. ​ OUR VALUE CREATION MODEL – DELIVERING CONSISTENT AND ATTRACTIVE TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN ​ Kroger’s proven value creation model is allowing us to deliver today and invest for the future. The foundation of our value creation model is our omnichannel food retail business, which is built on Kroger’s strategic assets: our stores, digital ecosystem, Our Brands and our data. These assets, when combined with our go-to-market strategy, deliver a compelling value proposition for our customers. We continue to build long-term customer loyalty through Fresh, Our Brands , Personalization and our seamless shopping experience to drive sustainable sales growth in our retail supermarket business, including fuel and health and wellness. This, in turn, generates the data and traffic that enables our fast growing, high operating margin alternative profit businesses. We are evolving from a traditional food retailer into a more diverse, food first business that we expect will consistently deliver net earnings growth in the future. This will be achieved by: ​ ​ ​ We expect to continue to generate strong free cash flow and are committed to being disciplined with capital deployment in support of our value creation model and stated capital allocation priorities. Our first priority is to invest in the business through attractive high return opportunities that drive long-term sustainable net earnings growth. We are committed to maintaining our current investment grade debt rating and our net total debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio target range of 2.30 to 2.50. We also expect to continue to grow our dividend over time and return excess cash to shareholders via stock repurchases, subject to Board approval. During the third quarter of 2022, we paused our share repurchase program to prioritize de-leveraging following the proposed merger with Albertsons. ​ We expect our value creation model will result in total shareholder return within our target range of 8% to 11% over time, which does not contemplate the effect of the proposed merger with Albertsons. ​ 23 2022 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY ​ We achieved exceptional results in 2022 as we executed on our Leading with Fresh and Accelerating with Digital strategy, building on record years in 2020 and 2021. These results were driven by positive identical sales without fuel of 5.6%, disciplined margin management and strong fuel profitability.  Our proven go-to-market strategy enables us to successfully navigate many operating environments, which has allowed us to effectively manage product cost inflation through strong sourcing practices while maintaining competitive prices and helping customers manage their budgets. ​ Our value proposition, which includes providing great quality, fresh products at affordable prices, data-driven promotions, trusted Our Brands products and our fuel rewards program, is resonating with shoppers and driving total household growth and enhanced customer loyalty.  During the year, we continued to invest in wages and the associate experience and in creating zero hunger, zero waste communities, as we believe these components of our strategy are critical to achieving long term sustainable growth.  In 2022, our average hourly rates increased by more than 6% and we have now invested an incremental $1.9 billion in associate wages since 2018. Our average hourly rate is now more than $18 and more than $23, when comprehensive benefits are included. ​ In 2023, we expect to build on this momentum and deliver revenue and adjusted net earnings per diluted share growth on top of the record results achieved over the past three years.  We expect to grow revenue by continuing to invest in our customers through competitive pricing and personalization, fresh products and a better shopping experience. Building on our significant investments over the past four years, we will also continue to increase associate wages. We will fund these investments through product mix improvements, cost saving initiatives and growth in our alternative profit businesses.  Looking forward, we believe we are well positioned to successfully operate in an evolving economic environment and continue to deliver attractive and sustainable total shareholder return within our target range of 8% to 11% over time, which does not contemplate the effect of the proposed merger with Albertsons. ​ The following table provides highlights of our financial performance: ​ Financial Performance Data ($ in millions, except per share amounts) ​ ​ ​ 24 OVERVIEW Notable items for 2022 are: ​ Shareholder Return ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ Other Financial Results ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ Significant Events ​ ​ ​ 25 ​ ​ OUR BUSINESS ​ The Kroger Co. (the “Company” or “Kroger”) was founded in 1883 and incorporated in 1902.  Our Company is built on the foundation of our food retail business, which includes the added convenience of our retail pharmacies and fuel centers.  Our strategy is focused on growing customer loyalty by delivering great value and convenience, and investing in four strategic pillars: Fresh, Our Brands , Data & Personalization and Seamless. ​ We also utilize the data and traffic generated by our retail business to deliver incremental value and services for our customers that generates alternative profit streams. These alternative profit streams would not exist without our core retail business. ​ Our revenues are predominately earned and cash is generated as consumer products are sold to customers in our stores, fuel centers and via our online platforms.  We earn income predominately by selling products at price levels that produce revenues in excess of the costs we incur to make these products available to our customers.  Such costs include procurement and distribution costs, facility occupancy and operational costs, and overhead expenses.  Our retail operations, which represent 97% of our consolidated sales, is our only reportable segment. ​ Kroger is diversified across brands, product categories, channels of distribution, geographies and consumer demographics.  Our combination of assets include the following: ​ Stores ​ As of January 28, 2023, Kroger operates supermarkets under a variety of local banner names in 35 states and the District of Columbia.  As of January 28, 2023, Kroger operated, either directly or through its subsidiaries, 2,719 supermarkets, of which 2,252 had pharmacies and 1,637 had fuel centers.  We connect with customers through our expanding seamless ecosystem and the consistent delivery of a full, fresh, and friendly customer experience. Fuel sales are an important part of our revenue, net earnings and loyalty offering. Our fuel strategy is to include a fuel center at each of our supermarket locations when it is feasible and it is expected to be profitable. ​ 26 Seamless Digital Ecosystem ​ We offer a convenient shopping experience for our customers regardless of how they choose to shop with us, including Pickup, Delivery and Ship.  We offer Pickup and Harris Teeter ExpressLane™ — personalized, order online, pick up at the store services — at 2,274 of our supermarkets and provide Delivery, which allows us to offer digital solutions to substantially all of our customers.  Our Delivery solutions include orders delivered to customers from retail store locations and customer fulfillment centers powered by Ocado. These channels allow us to serve customers anything, anytime, and anywhere with zero compromise on selection, convenience, and price.  We also provide relevant customer-facing apps and interfaces that have the features customers want that are also reliable, easy to use and deliver a seamless customer experience across our store and digital channels. ​ Merchandising and Manufacturing ​ Our Brands products play an important role in our merchandising strategy and represented over $30 billion of our sales in 2022.  We operate 33 food production plants, primarily bakeries and dairies, which supply approximately 30% of Our Brands units and 42% of the grocery category Our Brands units sold in our supermarkets; the remaining Our Brands items are produced to our strict specifications by outside manufacturers. ​ Our Data ​ We are evolving from a traditional food retailer into a more diverse, food first business.  The traffic and data generated by our retail supermarket business, including pharmacies and fuel centers, is enabling this transformation. Kroger serves approximately 60 million households annually and because of our rewards program, over 90% of customer transactions are tethered to a Kroger loyalty card.  Our 20 years of investment in data science capabilities is allowing us to utilize this data to create personalized experiences and value for our customers and is also enabling our fast-growing, high operating margin alternative profit businesses, including data analytic services and third party media revenue.  Our retail media business – Kroger Precision Marketing – provides best in class media capabilities for our consumer packaged goods partners and is a key driver of our digital profitability and alternative profit. ​ Proposed Merger with Albertsons ​ As previously disclosed, on October 13, 2022, we entered into a merger agreement with Albertsons.  The proposed merger is expected to accelerate our go-to-market strategy that includes Fresh, Our Brands , Personalization and Seamless, and continue our track record of investments across lowering prices, enhancing the customer experience, and increasing associate wages and benefits.  For additional information about the proposed merger with Albertsons, see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. ​ USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements, including the related notes, are presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (“GAAP”). We provide non-GAAP measures, including First-In, First-Out (“FIFO”) gross margin, FIFO operating profit, adjusted FIFO operating profit, adjusted net earnings and adjusted net earnings per diluted share because management believes these metrics are useful to investors and analysts. These non- GAAP financial measures should not be considered as an alternative to gross margin, operating profit, net earnings and net earnings per diluted share or any other GAAP measure of performance. These measures should not be reviewed in isolation or considered as a substitute for our financial results as reported in accordance with GAAP. ​ We calculate FIFO gross margin as FIFO gross profit divided by sales. FIFO gross profit is calculated as sales less merchandise costs, including advertising, warehousing, and transportation expenses, but excluding the Last-In, First-Out (“LIFO”) charge. Merchandise costs exclude depreciation and rent expenses. FIFO gross margin is an important measure used by management and management believes FIFO gross margin is a useful metric to investors and analysts because it measures the merchandising and operational effectiveness of our go-to-market strategy. ​ We calculate FIFO operating profit as operating profit excluding the LIFO charge. FIFO operating profit is an important measure used by management and management believes FIFO operating profit is a useful metric to investors and analysts because it measures the operational effectiveness of our financial model. ​ 27 The adjusted net earnings, adjusted net earnings per diluted share and adjusted FIFO operating profit metrics are important measures used by management to compare the performance of core operating results between periods. We believe adjusted net earnings, adjusted net earnings per diluted share and adjusted FIFO operating profit are useful metrics to investors and analysts because they present more accurate year-over-year comparisons of our net earnings, net earnings per diluted share and FIFO operating profit because adjusted items are not the result of our normal operations . Net earnings for 2022 include the following, which we define as the “2022 Adjusted Items:” ​ ​ ​ Net earnings for 2021 include the following, which we define as the “2021 Adjusted Items:” ​ ​ ​ ​ Net earnings for 2020 include the following, which we define as the “2020 Adjusted Items:” ​ ​ ​ The table below provides a reconciliation of net earnings attributable to The Kroger Co. to adjusted net earnings attributable to The Kroger Co. and a reconciliation of net earnings attributable to The Kroger Co. per diluted common share to adjusted net earnings attributable to The Kroger Co. per diluted common share excluding the 2022, 2021 and 2020 Adjusted Items: ​ 28 Net Earnings per Diluted Share excluding the Adjusted Items ($ in millions, except per share amounts) ​ ​ 29 Key Performance Indicators ​ We evaluate our results of operations and cash flows using a variety of key performance indicators, such as sales, identical sales, excluding fuel, FIFO gross margin, adjusted FIFO operating profit, adjusted net earnings, adjusted net earnings per diluted share and return on invested capital.  We use these financial metrics and related computations to evaluate our operational effectiveness and our results of operations from period to period and to plan for near and long-term operating and strategic decisions.  These key performance indicators should not be reviewed in isolation or considered as a substitute for our financial results as reported in accordance with GAAP. These measures, which are described in more detail in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, may not be comparable to similarly-titled performance indicators used by other companies. ​ RESULTS OF OPERATIONS ​ Sales ​ Total Sales ($ in millions) ​ Total sales increased in 2022, compared to 2021, by 7.5%. The increase was primarily due to increases in supermarket fuel sales and total sales to retail customers without fuel. Total sales, excluding fuel, increased 5.2% in 2022, compared to 2021, which was primarily due to our identical sales increase, excluding fuel, of 5.6%, partially offset by discontinued patient therapies at Kroger Specialty Pharmacy. Identical sales, excluding fuel, for 2022, compared to 2021, increased primarily due to an increase in the number of households shopping with us and an increase in basket value due to retail inflation, partially offset by a reduction in the number of items in basket and the termination of our agreement with Express Scripts.  Identical sales without fuel would have grown 5.8% in 2022 if not for the reduction in pharmacy sales from our termination of our agreement with Express Scripts effective December 31, 2022. Total supermarket fuel sales increased 26.9% in 2022, compared to 2021, primarily due to an increase in the average retail fuel price of 28.5%, partially offset by a decrease in fuel gallons sold of 1.2%, which was less than the national average decline. The increase in the average retail fuel price was caused by an increase in the product cost of fuel. ​ 30 Total sales increased in 2021, compared to 2020, by 4.1%.  The increase was primarily due to an increase in supermarket fuel sales. Total sales, excluding fuel, increased 0.2% in 2021, compared to 2020, which was primarily due to our identical sales increase, excluding fuel, of 0.2%. Identical sales, excluding fuel, increased in 2021 on top of record sales results in 2020, which was primarily caused by unprecedented demand due to the COVID-19 pandemic during 2020.  Total supermarket fuel sales increased 54.7% in 2021, compared to 2020, primarily due to an increase in fuel gallons sold of 7.9% and an increase in the average retail fuel price of 43.6%. The increase in the average retail fuel price was caused by an increase in the product cost of fuel. ​ We calculate identical sales, excluding fuel, as sales to retail customers, including sales from all departments at identical supermarket locations, Kroger Specialty Pharmacy businesses and Delivery and Ship solutions. We define a supermarket as identical when it has been in operation without expansion or relocation for five full quarters. We define Kroger Specialty Pharmacy businesses as identical when physical locations have been in operation continuously for five full quarters; discontinued patient therapies are excluded from the identical sales calculation starting in the quarter of transfer or termination. We define Kroger Delivery identical sales powered by Ocado based on geography. We include Kroger Delivery sales powered by Ocado as identical if the delivery occurs in an existing Kroger supermarket geography. If the Kroger Delivery sales powered by Ocado occur in a new geography, these sales are included as identical when deliveries have occurred to the new geography for five full quarters. Although identical sales is a relatively standard term, numerous methods exist for calculating identical sales growth. As a result, the method used by our management to calculate identical sales may differ from methods other companies use to calculate identical sales. It is important to understand the methods used by other companies to calculate identical sales before comparing our identical sales to those of other such companies. Our identical sales, excluding fuel, results are summarized in the following table. We used the identical sales, excluding fuel, dollar figures presented below to calculate percentage changes for 2022 and 2021. ​ Identical Sales ($ in millions) ​ ​ Gross Margin, LIFO and FIFO Gross Margin ​ We define gross margin as sales minus merchandise costs, including advertising, warehousing, and transportation. Rent expense, depreciation and amortization expense, and interest expense are not included in gross margin. ​ Our gross margin rates, as a percentage of sales, were 21.43% in 2022 and 22.01% in 2021.  The decrease in rate in 2022, compared to 2021, resulted primarily from increased fuel sales, which have a lower gross margin rate, a decrease in our fuel gross margin, increased shrink, as a percentage of sales, and a higher LIFO charge, partially offset by our ability to effectively manage product cost inflation through strong sourcing practices while maintaining competitive prices and helping customers manage their budgets and the cycling of a write down related to a donation of personal protective equipment inventory from the prior year. ​ Our LIFO charge was $626 million in 2022 and $197 million in 2021. The increase in our LIFO charge was attributable to higher product cost inflation primarily in grocery. ​ Our FIFO gross margin rate, which excludes the LIFO charge, was 21.86% in 2022, compared to 22.15% in 2021.  Our fuel sales lower our FIFO gross margin rate due to the very low FIFO gross margin rate, as a percentage of sales, of fuel sales compared to non-fuel sales.  Excluding the effect of fuel, our FIFO gross margin rate decreased 9 basis points in 2022, compared to 2021. This decrease resulted primarily from increased shrink, as a percentage of sales, partially offset by our ability to effectively manage product cost inflation through strong sourcing practices while maintaining competitive prices and helping customers manage their budgets and the cycling of a write down related to a donation of personal protective equipment inventory from the prior year. ​ 31 Operating, General and Administrative Expenses ​ OG&A expenses consist primarily of employee-related costs such as wages, healthcare benefit costs, retirement plan costs, utilities, and credit card fees. Rent expense, depreciation and amortization expense, and interest expense are not included in OG&A. ​ OG&A expenses, as a percentage of sales, were 16.09% in 2022 and 16.83% in 2021. The decrease in 2022, compared to 2021, resulted primarily from the effect of sales leverage across fuel and supermarkets, which decreases our OG&A rate, as a percentage of sales, lower contributions to multi-employer pension plans, decreased healthcare costs, the 2021 OG&A Adjusted Items and broad-based improvement from cost savings initiatives that drive administrative efficiencies, store productivity and sourcing cost reductions, partially offset by investments in our associates, costs related to strategic investments in various margin expansion initiatives that will drive future growth and the 2022 OG&A Adjusted Items. ​ Our fuel sales lower our OG&A rate, as a percentage of sales, due to the very low OG&A rate, as a percentage of sales, of fuel sales compared to non-fuel sales.  Excluding the effect of fuel, the 2022 OG&A Adjusted Items and the 2021 OG&A Adjusted Items, our OG&A rate decreased 19 basis points in 2022, compared to 2021. This decrease resulted primarily from the effect of supermarket sales leverage, which decreases our OG&A rate, as a percentage of sales, lower contributions to multi-employer pension plans, decreased healthcare costs and broad-based improvement from cost savings initiatives that drive administrative efficiencies, store productivity and sourcing cost reductions, partially offset by investments in our associates and costs related to strategic investments in various margin expansion initiatives that will drive future growth. ​ Rent Expense ​ Rent expense was $839 million, or 0.57% of sales, for 2022, compared to $845 million, or 0.61% of sales, for 2021.  Rent expense, as a percentage of sales, decreased 4 basis points in 2022, compared to 2021, primarily due to sales leverage and the completion of a property transaction during the first quarter of 2021 related to 28 previously leased properties that we are now accounting for as owned locations and therefore recognizing depreciation and amortization expense over their useful life. For additional information about this transaction, see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. ​ Depreciation and Amortization Expense ​ Depreciation and amortization expense was $3.0 billion, or 2.00% of sales, for 2022, compared to $2.8 billion, or 2.05% of sales, for 2021. Depreciation and amortization expense, as a percentage of sales, decreased 5 basis points in 2022, compared to 2021, primarily due to sales leverage. ​ Operating Profit and FIFO Operating Profit ​ Operating profit was $4.1 billion, or 2.78% of sales, for 2022, compared to $3.5 billion, or 2.52% of sales, for 2021.  Operating profit, as a percentage of sales, increased 26 basis points in 2022, compared to 2021, due to decreased OG&A expense, as a percentage of sales, partially offset by an increased LIFO charge and a lower FIFO gross margin rate. Fuel earnings also contributed to our operating profit growth for 2022, compared to 2021. ​ FIFO operating profit was $4.8 billion, or 3.21% of sales, for 2022, compared to $3.7 billion, or 2.66% of sales, for 2021.  FIFO operating profit, as a percentage of sales, excluding the 2022 and 2021 Adjusted Items, increased 30 basis points in 2022, compared to 2021, due to decreased OG&A expense, as a percentage of sales, partially offset by a lower FIFO gross margin rate.  Fuel earnings also contributed to our FIFO operating profit growth for 2022, compared to 2021. ​ Specific factors contributing to the trends driving operating profit and FIFO operating profit identified above are discussed earlier in this section. ​ 32 The following table provides a reconciliation of operating profit to FIFO operating profit, and to Adjusted FIFO operating profit , excluding the 2022 and 2021 Adjusted Items: ​ Operating Profit excluding the Adjusted Items ($ in millions) ​ ​ Interest Expense ​ Interest expense totaled $535 million in 2022 and $571 million in 2021. The decrease in interest expense in 2022, compared to 2021, was primarily due to decreased average total outstanding debt throughout 2022, compared to 2021, including both the current and long-term portions of obligations under finance leases, and increased interest income earned on our cash and temporary cash investments due to rising interest rates throughout 2022, compared to 2021. ​ Income Taxes ​ Our effective income tax rate was 22.5% in 2022 and 18.8% in 2021.  The 2022 tax rate differed from the federal statutory rate due to the effect of state income taxes and non-deductible goodwill impairment charges related to Vitacost.com, partially offset by the benefit from share-based payments and the utilization of tax credits.  The 2021 tax rate differed from the federal statutory rate due to a discrete benefit of $47 million which was primarily from the favorable outcome of income tax audit examinations covering multiple years, the benefit from share-based payments and the utilization of tax credits, partially offset by the effect of state income taxes. ​ Net Earnings and Net Earnings Per Diluted Share ​ Our net earnings are based on the factors discussed in the Results of Operations section. ​ Net earnings of $3.06 per diluted share for 2022 represented an increase of 41.0% compared to net earnings of $2.17 per diluted share for 2021.  Adjusted net earnings of $4.23 per diluted share for 2022 represented an increase of 14.9% compared to adjusted net earnings of $3.68 per diluted share for 2021. The increase in adjusted net earnings per diluted share resulted primarily from increased FIFO operating profit, excluding fuel, increased fuel earnings and lower weighted average common shares outstanding due to common share repurchases, partially offset by a higher LIFO charge and higher income tax expense. ​ 33 RETURN ON INVESTED CAPITAL ​ We calculate return on invested capital (“ROIC”) by dividing adjusted ROIC operating profit for the prior four quarters by the average invested capital.  Adjusted operating profit for ROIC purposes is calculated by excluding certain items included in operating profit, and adding back our LIFO charge, depreciation and amortization and rent to our U.S. GAAP operating profit of the prior four quarters.  Average invested capital is calculated as the sum of (i) the average of our total assets, (ii) the average LIFO reserve and (iii) the average accumulated depreciation and amortization; minus (i) the average taxes receivable, (ii) the average trade accounts payable, (iii) the average accrued salaries and wages and (iv) the average other current liabilities, excluding accrued income taxes.  Averages are calculated for ROIC by adding the beginning balance of the first quarter and the ending balance of the fourth quarter, of the last four quarters, and dividing by two.  ROIC is a non-GAAP financial measure of performance.  ROIC should not be reviewed in isolation or considered as a substitute for our financial results as reported in accordance with GAAP.  ROIC is an important measure used by management to evaluate our investment returns on capital.  Management believes ROIC is a useful metric to investors and analysts because it measures how effectively we are deploying our assets. ​ Although ROIC is a relatively standard financial term, numerous methods exist for calculating a company’s ROIC.  As a result, the method used by our management to calculate ROIC may differ from methods other companies use to calculate their ROIC.  We urge you to understand the methods used by other companies to calculate their ROIC before comparing our ROIC to that of such other companies. ​ The following table provides a calculation of ROIC for 2022 and 2021 on a 52 week basis ($ in millions): ​ (1) Taxes receivable were $231 as of January 28, 2023, $42 as of January 29, 2022 and $66 as of January 30, 2021. (2) Accumulated depreciation and amortization includes depreciation for property, plant and equipment and amortization for definite-lived intangible assets. (3) Other current liabilities included accrued income taxes of $9 as of January 30, 2021.  We did not have any accrued income taxes as of January 28, 2023 or January 29, 2022. Accrued income taxes are removed from other current liabilities in the calculation of average invested capital. ​ 34 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES ​ We have chosen accounting policies that we believe are appropriate to report accurately and fairly our operating results and financial position, and we apply those accounting policies in a consistent manner.  Our significant accounting policies are summarized in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. ​ The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities.  We base our estimates on historical experience and other factors we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.  Actual results could differ from those estimates. ​ We believe the following accounting estimates are the most critical in the preparation of our financial statements because they involve the most difficult, subjective or complex judgments about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. ​ Impairments of Long-Lived Assets ​ We monitor the carrying value of long-lived assets for potential impairment each quarter based on whether certain triggering events have occurred.  These events include current period losses combined with a history of losses or a projection of continuing losses or a significant decrease in the market value of an asset.  When a triggering event occurs, we perform an impairment calculation, comparing projected undiscounted cash flows, utilizing current cash flow information and expected growth rates related to specific stores, to the carrying value for those stores.  If we identify impairment for long-lived assets to be held and used, we compare the assets’ current carrying value to the assets’ fair value.  Fair value is determined based on market values or discounted future cash flows.  We record impairment when the carrying value exceeds fair market value.  With respect to owned property and equipment held for disposal, we adjust the value of the property and equipment to reflect recoverable values based on our previous efforts to dispose of similar assets and current economic conditions.  We recognize impairment for the excess of the carrying value over the estimated fair market value, reduced by estimated direct costs of disposal.  We recorded asset impairments in the normal course of business totaling $68 million in 2022 and $64 million in 2021.  We record costs to reduce the carrying value of long-lived assets in the Consolidated Statements of Operations as OG&A expense. ​ The factors that most significantly affect the impairment calculation are our estimates of future cash flows.  Our cash flow projections look several years into the future and include assumptions on variables such as inflation, the economy and market competition.  Application of alternative assumptions and definitions, such as reviewing long-lived assets for impairment at a different level, could produce significantly different results. ​ Business Combinations ​ We account for business combinations using the acquisition method of accounting.  All the assets acquired, liabilities assumed and amounts attributable to noncontrolling interests are recorded at their respective fair values at the date of acquisition once we obtain control of an entity. The determination of fair values of identifiable assets and liabilities involves estimates and the use of valuation techniques when market value is not readily available.  We use various techniques to determine fair value in such instances, including the income approach.  Significant estimates used in determining fair value include, but are not limited to, the amount and timing of future cash flows, growth rates, discount rates and useful lives. The excess of the purchase price over fair values of identifiable assets and liabilities is recorded as goodwill.  See Note 2 for further information about goodwill. ​ 35 Goodwill ​ Our goodwill totaled $2.9 billion as of January 28, 2023.  We review goodwill for impairment in the fourth quarter of each year, and also upon the occurrence of triggering events.  We perform reviews of each of our operating divisions and other consolidated entities (collectively, “reporting units”) that have goodwill balances.  Generally, fair value is determined using a multiple of earnings, or discounted projected future cash flows, and we compare fair value to the carrying value of a reporting unit for purposes of identifying potential impairment.  We base projected future cash flows on management’s knowledge of the current operating environment and expectations for the future.  We recognize goodwill impairment for any excess of a reporting unit's carrying value over its fair value, not to exceed the total amount of goodwill allocated to the reporting unit. ​ In 2022, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge for Vitacost.com totaling $160 million.  The talent and capabilities gained through the merger with Vitacost in 2014 have been key to advancing Kroger’s digital platform and growing our digital business to more than $10 billion in annual sales. As our digital strategy has evolved, our primary focus looking forward will be to effectively utilize our Pickup and Delivery capabilities.  This reprioritization resulted in reduced long-term profitability expectations and a decline in the market value for one underlying channel of business and led to the impairment charge. Vitacost.com will continue to operate as an online platform providing great value natural, organic, and eco-friendly products for customers. ​ The annual evaluation of goodwill performed in 2022, 2021 and 2020 did not result in impairment for any of our reporting units other than Vitacost.com described above.  Based on current and future expected cash flows, we believe additional goodwill impairments are not reasonably likely.  A 10% reduction in fair value of our reporting units would not indicate a potential for impairment of our goodwill balance. ​ The 2022 fair value of our Kroger Specialty Pharmacy (“KSP”) reporting unit was estimated using multiple valuation techniques: a discounted cash flow model (income approach), a market multiple model and a comparable mergers and acquisition model (market approaches), with each method weighted in the calculation. The income approach relies on management’s projected future cash flows, estimates of revenue growth rates, margin assumptions and an appropriate discount rate. The market approaches require the determination of an appropriate peer group, which is utilized to derive estimated fair values based on selected market multiples.  Our KSP reporting unit has a goodwill balance of $243 million. ​ For additional information relating to our results of the goodwill impairment reviews performed during 2022, 2021 and 2020, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. ​ The impairment review requires the extensive use of management judgment and financial estimates.  Application of alternative estimates and assumptions could produce significantly different results.  The cash flow projections embedded in our goodwill impairment reviews can be affected by several factors such as inflation, business valuations in the market, the economy, market competition and our ability to successfully integrate recently acquired businesses. ​ Multi-Employer Pension Plans ​ We contribute to various multi-employer pension plans based on obligations arising from collective bargaining agreements.  These multi-employer pension plans provide retirement benefits to participants based on their service to contributing employers.  The benefits are paid from assets held in trust for that purpose.  Trustees are appointed in equal number by employers and unions.  The trustees typically are responsible for determining the level of benefits to be provided to participants as well as for such matters as the investment of the assets and the administration of the plans. ​ We recognize expense in connection with these plans as contributions are funded or when commitments are probable and reasonably estimable, in accordance with GAAP.  We made cash contributions to these plans of $620 million in 2022, $1.1 billion in 2021 and $619 million in 2020.  The decrease in 2022, compared to 2021, and the increase in 2021, compared to 2020, are due to the contractual payments we made in 2021 related to our commitments established for the restructuring of certain multi-employer pension plan agreements. ​ 36 We continue to evaluate and address our potential exposure to under-funded multi-employer pension plans as it relates to our associates who are beneficiaries of these plans.  These under-fundings are not our liability.  When an opportunity arises that is economically feasible and beneficial to us and our associates, we may negotiate the restructuring of under-funded multi-employer pension plan obligations to help stabilize associates’ future benefits and become the fiduciary of the restructured multi-employer pension plan.  The commitments from these restructurings do not change our debt profile as it relates to our credit rating since these off-balance sheet commitments are typically considered in our investment grade debt rating.  We are currently designated as the named fiduciary of the UFCW Consolidated Pension Plan and the International Brotherhood of Teamsters (“IBT”) Consolidated Pension Fund and have sole investment authority over these assets.  Significant effects of these restructuring agreements recorded in our Consolidated Financial Statements are: ​ ​ ​ ​ As we continue to work to find solutions to under-funded multi-employer pension plans, it is possible we could incur withdrawal liabilities for certain funds. ​ Based on the most recent information available to us, we believe the present value of actuarially accrued liabilities in most of these multi-employer plans exceeds the value of the assets held in trust to pay benefits, and we expect that our contributions to most of these funds will increase over the next few years .  We have attempted to estimate the amount by which these liabilities exceed the assets, (i.e., the amount of underfunding), as of December 31, 2022.  Because we are only one of a number of employers contributing to these plans, we also have attempted to estimate the ratio of our contributions to the total of all contributions to these plans in a year as a way of assessing our “share” of the underfunding. Nonetheless, the underfunding is not a direct obligation or liability of ours or of any employer. ​ As of December 31, 2022, we estimate our share of the underfunding of multi-employer pension plans to which we contribute was approximately $2.5 billion, $1.9 billion net of tax.  This represents an increase in the estimated amount of underfunding of approximately $1.4 billion, $1.1 billion net of tax, as of December 31, 2022, compared to December 31, 2021.  The increase in the amount of underfunding is primarily attributable to lower than expected returns on assets in the funds during 2022.  Our estimate is based on the most current information available to us including actuarial evaluations and other data (that include the estimates of others), and such information may be outdated or otherwise unreliable. ​ We have made and disclosed this estimate not because, except as noted above, this underfunding is a direct liability of ours.  Rather, we believe the underfunding is likely to have important consequences.  In the event we were to exit certain markets or otherwise cease making contributions to these plans, we could trigger a substantial withdrawal liability. Any adjustment for withdrawal liability will be recorded when it is probable that a liability exists and can be reasonably estimated, in accordance with GAAP. ​ The amount of underfunding described above is an estimate and could change based on contract negotiations, returns on the assets held in the multi-employer pension plans, benefit payments or future restructuring agreements.  The amount could decline, and our future expense would be favorably affected, if the values of the assets held in the trust significantly increase or if further changes occur through collective bargaining, trustee action or favorable legislation.  On the other hand, our share of the underfunding could increase and our future expense could be adversely affected if the asset values decline, if employers currently contributing to these funds cease participation or if changes occur through collective bargaining, trustee action or adverse legislation.  We continue to evaluate our potential exposure to under-funded multi-employer pension plans.  Although these liabilities are not a direct obligation or liability of ours, any commitments to fund certain multi-employer pension plans will be expensed when our commitment is probable and an estimate can be made. ​ 37 The American Rescue Plan Act ("ARP Act"), which was signed into law on March 11, 2021, established a special financial assistance program for financially troubled multi-employer pension plans. Under the ARP Act, eligible multi-employer plans can apply to receive a cash payment in an amount projected by the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation to pay pension benefits through the plan year ending 2051. At the end of 2022, we expect certain multi-employer pension plans in which we participate, for which our estimated share of underfunding is approximately $1.0 billion, $750 million net of tax, to apply for funding in 2023, which may reduce a portion of our share of unfunded multi-employer pension plan liabilities. ​ See Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information relating to our participation in these multi-employer pension plans. ​ NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS ​ Refer to Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for recently issued accounting standards not yet adopted as of January 28, 2023. ​ LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES ​ Cash Flow Information ​ The following table summarizes our net (decrease) increase in cash and temporary cash investments for 2022 and 2021: ​ ​ Net cash provided by operating activities ​ We generated $4.5 billion of cash from operations in 2022, compared to $6.2 billion in 2021. Net earnings including noncontrolling interests, adjusted for non-cash items, generated approximately $7.7 billion of operating cash flow in 2022 compared to $6.4 billion in 2021. Cash used by operating activities for changes in operating assets and liabilities, including working capital, was $3.2 billion in 2022 compared to $229 million in 2021.  The increase in cash used by operating activities for changes in operating assets and liabilities, including working capital, in 2022 compared to 2021, and compared to management’s expectations, was primarily due to a variety of factors, including the effect of higher inflation on inventory balances, some forward buying of inventory to protect margins, and the timing of payments related to certain trade accounts payable and receivables.  Specifically: ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ 38 ​ ​ ​ ​ Cash paid for taxes increased in 2022, compared to 2021, primarily due to higher taxable income in 2022, compared to 2021 . ​ Net cash used by investing activities ​ Investing activities used cash of $3.0 billion in 2022, compared to $2.6 billion in 2021. The amount of cash used by investing activities increased in 2022, compared to 2021, primarily due to increased payments for property and equipment in 2022. ​ Net cash used by financing activities ​ We used $2.3 billion of cash for financing activities in 2022, compared to $3.4 billion in 2021. The amount of cash used for financing activities decreased in 2022, compared to 2021, primarily due to the following: ​ ​ ​ ​ Capital Investments ​ Capital investments, including changes in construction-in-progress payables and excluding the purchase of leased facilities, totaled $3.3 billion in 2022 and $3.2 billion in 2021.  Capital investments for the purchase of leased facilities totaled $21 million in 2022.  We did not purchase any leased facilities in 2021.  Our capital priorities align directly with our value creation model and our target to consistently grow net earnings. Our capital program includes initiatives to enhance the customer experience in stores, improve our process efficiency and enhance our digital capabilities through technology developments.  As such, we increased our allocation of capital investments related to digital and technology compared to prior years. These investments are expected to drive digital sales growth and improve operating efficiency by removing cost and waste from our business. ​ 39 The table below shows our supermarket storing activity and our total supermarket square footage for 2022, 2021 and 2020: ​ Supermarket Storing Activity ​ ​ Debt Management ​ Total debt, including both the current and long-term portions of obligations under finance leases, increased $14 million to $13.4 billion as of year-end 2022 compared to 2021. This increase resulted primarily from a net increase in obligations under finance leases of $466 million primarily related to our four additional Kroger Delivery customer fulfillment center openings during 2022, partially offset by the payment of $400 million of senior notes bearing an interest rate of 2.80%. ​ Common Share Repurchase Programs ​ We maintain share repurchase programs that comply with Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the “Exchange Act”) and allow for the orderly repurchase of our common shares, from time to time.  The share repurchase programs do not have an expiration date but may be suspended or terminated by our Board of Directors at any time.  We made open market purchases of our common shares totaling $821 million in 2022 and $1.4 billion in 2021.  During the third quarter of 2022, we paused our share repurchase program to prioritize de-leveraging following the proposed merger with Albertsons. ​ In addition to these repurchase programs, we also repurchase common shares to reduce dilution resulting from our employee stock option plans.  This program is solely funded by proceeds from stock option exercises, and the tax benefit from these exercises.  We repurchased approximately $172 million in 2022 and $225 million in 2021 of our common shares under the stock option program. ​ On December 30, 2021, our Board of Directors approved a $1.0 billion share repurchase program to reacquire shares via open market purchase or privately negotiated transactions, block trades, or pursuant to trades intending to comply with Rule 10b5-1 under the Exchange Act (the “December 2021 Repurchase Program”). The December 2021 Repurchase Program was exhausted during the third quarter of 2022. On September 9, 2022, our Board of Directors approved a $1.0 billion share repurchase program to reacquire shares via open market purchase or privately negotiated transactions, block trades, or pursuant to trades intending to comply with Rule 10b5-1 under the Exchange Act (the “September 2022 Repurchase Program”).  No shares have been repurchased under the September 2022 authorization.  During the third quarter of 2022, we paused our share repurchase program to prioritize de-leveraging following the proposed merger with Albertsons. ​ The shares we repurchased in 2022 were reacquired under the following share repurchase programs: ​ ​ ​ As of January 28, 2023, there was $1.0 billion remaining under the September 2022 Repurchase Program. ​ 40 Dividends ​ The following table provides dividend information for 2022 and 2021 ($ in millions, except per share amounts): ​ ​ Liquidity Needs ​ We held cash and temporary cash investments of $1.0 billion, as of the end of 2022, which reflects our elevated operating performance over the last few years. We actively manage our cash and temporary cash investments in order to internally fund operating activities, support and invest in our core businesses, make scheduled interest and principal payments on our borrowings and return cash to shareholders through cash dividend payments and share repurchases. Our current levels of cash, borrowing capacity and balance sheet leverage provide us with the operational flexibility to adjust to changes in economic and market conditions. We remain committed to our dividend, and growing our dividend over time, subject to board approval, as well as share repurchase programs and we will evaluate the optimal use of any excess free cash flow, consistent with our capital allocation strategy. During the third quarter of 2022, we paused our share repurchase program to prioritize de-leveraging following the proposed merger with Albertsons . ​ 41 The table below summarizes our short-term and long-term material cash requirements, based on year of maturity or settlement, as of January 28, 2023 (in millions of dollars): ​ ​ We expect to meet our short-term and long-term liquidity needs with cash and temporary cash investments on hand as of January 28, 2023, cash flows from our operating activities and other sources of liquidity, including borrowings under our commercial paper program and bank credit facility. Our short-term and long-term liquidity needs include anticipated requirements for working capital to maintain our operations, pension plan commitments, interest payments and scheduled principal payments of debt and commercial paper, settlement of interest rate swap liabilities, servicing our lease obligations, self-insurance liabilities, capital investments and other purchase obligations. We may also require additional capital in the future to fund organic growth opportunities, additional customer fulfillment centers, joint ventures or other business partnerships, property development, acquisitions, dividends and share repurchases. In addition, we generally operate with a working capital deficit due to our efficient use of cash in funding operations and because we have consistent access to the capital markets. We believe we have adequate coverage of our debt covenants to continue to maintain our current investment grade debt ratings and to respond effectively to competitive conditions. ​ 42 As previously disclosed, on October 13, 2022, we entered into a merger agreement with Albertsons. We expect to meet our liquidity needs for the proposed merger with cash and temporary cash investments on hand as of the merger closing date, cash flows from our operating activities and other sources of liquidity, including borrowings under our commercial paper program, senior notes issuances, bank credit facility and other sources of financing. In connection with the proposed merger, we entered into a commitment letter for a bridge term loan facility and executed a term loan credit agreement. During the third quarter of 2022, we paused our share repurchase program to prioritize de-leveraging following the proposed merger with Albertsons. For additional information about the proposed merger with Albertsons, see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. ​ For additional information about our debt activity in 2022, see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. ​ Factors Affecting Liquidity ​ We can currently borrow on a daily basis approximately $2.75 billion under our commercial paper program.  At January 28, 2023, we had no outstanding commercial paper.  Commercial paper borrowings are backed by our credit facility and reduce the amount we can borrow under the credit facility.  If our short-term credit ratings fall, the ability to borrow under our current commercial paper program could be adversely affected for a period of time and increase our interest cost on daily borrowings under our commercial paper program.  This could require us to borrow additional funds under the credit facility, under which we believe we have sufficient capacity.  However, in the event of a ratings decline, we do not anticipate that our borrowing capacity under our commercial paper program would be any lower than $500 million on a daily basis.  Factors that could affect our credit rating include changes in our operating performance and financial position, the state of the economy, the current inflationary environment, conditions in the food retail industry and changes in our business model.  Further information on the risks and uncertainties that can affect our business can be found in the “Risk Factors” section set forth in Item 1A of Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Although our ability to borrow under the credit facility is not affected by our credit rating, the interest cost and applicable margin on borrowings under the credit facility could be affected by a downgrade in our Public Debt Rating.  “Public Debt Rating” means, as of any date, the rating that has been most recently announced by either S&P or Moody’s, as the case may be, for any class of non-credit enhanced long-term senior unsecured debt issued by the Company. As of March 22, 2023, we had no commercial paper borrowings outstanding. ​ Our credit facility requires the maintenance of a Leverage Ratio (our “financial covenant”).  A failure to maintain our financial covenant would impair our ability to borrow under the credit facility. This financial covenant is described below: ​ ​ Our credit facility is more fully described in Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  We were in compliance with our financial covenant at January 28, 2023. ​ As of January 28, 2023, we maintained a $2.75 billion (with the ability to increase by $1.25 billion), unsecured revolving credit facility that, unless extended, terminates on July 6, 2026. Outstanding borrowings under the credit facility, commercial paper borrowings, and some outstanding letters of credit reduce funds available under the credit facility. As of January 28, 2023, we had no outstanding commercial paper and no borrowings under our revolving credit facility. The outstanding letters of credit that reduce funds available under our credit facility totaled $2 million as of January 28, 2023. ​ In connection with the proposed merger with Albertsons, on October 13, 2022, we entered into a commitment letter with certain lenders pursuant to which the lenders have committed to provide a 364-day $17.4 billion senior unsecured bridge term loan facility. The commitments are intended to be drawn to finance the proposed merger with Albertsons only to the extent we do not arrange for alternative financing prior to closing. As alternative financing for the proposed merger is secured, the commitments with respect to the bridge term loan facility under the commitment letter will be reduced. ​ 43 On November 9, 2022, we executed a term loan credit agreement with certain lenders pursuant to which the lenders committed to provide, contingent upon the completion of the proposed merger with Albertsons and certain other customary conditions to funding, (1) senior unsecured term loans in an aggregate principal amount of $3.0 billion maturing on the third anniversary of the proposed merger closing date and (2) senior unsecured term loans in an aggregate principal amount of $1.75 billion maturing on the date that is 18 months after the proposed merger closing date (collectively, the “Term Loan Facilities”). Borrowings under the Term Loan Facilities will be used to pay a portion of the consideration and other amounts payable in connection with the proposed merger with Albertsons. The duration of the Term Loan Facilities will allow us to achieve our net total debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio target range of 2.30 to 2.50 within the first 18 to 24 months after the proposed merger closing date. The entry into the term loan credit agreement reduced the commitments under our bridge facility commitment letter from $17.4 billion to $12.65 billion. Borrowings under the Term Loan Facilities will bear interest at rates that vary based on the type of loan and our debt rating. ​ In addition to the available credit mentioned above, as of January 28, 2023, we had authorized for issuance $3.3 billion of securities remaining under a shelf registration statement filed with the SEC and effective on May 20, 2022. ​ We maintain surety bonds related primarily to our self-insured workers’ compensation claims.  These bonds are required by most states in which we are self-insured for workers’ compensation and are placed with predominately third-party insurance providers to insure payment of our obligations in the event we are unable to meet our claim payment obligations up to our self-insured retention levels.  These bonds do not represent liabilities of ours, as we already have reserves on our books for the claims costs.  Market changes may make the surety bonds more costly and, in some instances, availability of these bonds may become more limited, which could affect our costs of, or access to, such bonds.  Although we do not believe increased costs or decreased availability would significantly affect our ability to access these surety bonds, if this does become an issue, we would issue letters of credit, in states where allowed, to meet the state bonding requirements.  This could increase our cost or decrease the funds available under our credit facility if the letters of credit were issued against our credit facility.  We had $467 million of outstanding surety bonds as of January 28, 2023.  These surety bonds expire during fiscal year 2023 and are expected to be renewed. ​ We have standby letters of credit outstanding as part of our insurance program and for other business purposes. The letters of credit for our insurance program collateralize obligations to our insurance carriers in connection with the settlement of potential claims. We have also provided a letter of credit which supports our commitment to build a certain number of fulfillment centers.  The balance of this letter of credit reduces primarily upon the construction of each fulfillment center.  If we do not reach our total purchase commitment, we will be responsible for the balance remaining on the letter of credit.  We had $310 million of outstanding standby letters of credit as of January 28, 2023.  These standby letters of credit expire during fiscal year 2023 and are expected to be renewed.  Letters of credit do not represent liabilities of ours and are not reflected in the Company’s Consolidated B alance Sheets. ​ We also are contingently liable for leases that have been assigned to various third parties in connection with facility closings and dispositions.  We could be required to satisfy obligations under the leases if any of the assignees are unable to fulfill their lease obligations.  Due to the wide distribution of our assignments among third parties, and various other remedies available to us, we believe the likelihood that we will be required to assume a material amount of these obligations is remote.  We have agreed to indemnify certain third-party logistics operators for certain expenses, including multi-employer pension plan obligations and withdrawal liabilities. ​ In addition to the above, we enter into various indemnification agreements and take on indemnification obligations in the ordinary course of business.  Such arrangements include indemnities against third-party claims arising out of agreements to provide services to us; indemnities related to the sale of our securities; indemnities of directors, officers and employees in connection with the performance of their work; and indemnities of individuals serving as fiduciaries on benefit plans.  While our aggregate indemnification obligation could result in a material liability, we are not aware of any current matter that could result in a material liability. ​ 44