********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

In your evaluation of our company and business, you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with information disclosed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including our consolidated financial statements and the related notes and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" in Part II of this Annual Report, and other documents we file with the SEC. The risks and uncertainties described below are those that we have identified as material but are not the only risks and uncertainties facing us. If any of these risks or uncertainties actually occurs, our business, financial condition or operating results could be materially harmed and our stock price could decline. Our business is also subject to general risks and uncertainties that affect many other companies, such as our ability to collect receivables, overall U.S. and global economic and industry conditions, geopolitical events, changes in laws or accounting rules, fluctuations in interest, exchange rates and inflation, terrorism, international conflicts, major health concerns, climate change or other disruptions of expected economic and business conditions. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently believe are immaterial also may materially harm our business, financial condition or operating results and result in a decline in our stock price. Industry and Economic Risks We depend on government agencies as our primary customers and if our reputation or relationships with these agencies were harmed, our future revenues and growth prospects could be adversely affected. We generated approximately 87% of our total revenues during fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019 from contracts with the U.S. government (including all branches of the U.S. military), either as a prime contractor or a subcontractor to other contractors engaged in work for the U.S. government. We expect to continue to derive most of our revenues from work performed under U.S. government contracts. Our reputation and relationship with the U.S. government, particularly with the agencies of the DoD and the U.S. Intelligence Community, are key factors in maintaining and growing our revenues. Negative publicity, including reports from the press or social media coverage, regardless of accuracy or completeness, and which could pertain to employee or subcontractor misconduct, conflicts of interest, poor contract performance, deficiencies in services, reports, products or other deliverables, information security breaches or other aspects of our business, could harm our reputation, particularly with these agencies. Due to the sensitive nature of our work and our confidentiality obligations to our customers, and despite our ongoing efforts to provide transparency, we may be unable to or limited in our ability to respond to such negative publicity, which could also harm our reputation and our business. If our reputation is negatively affected, certain customers could cease to do business with us. In addition, our ability to hire or retain employees and our standing in professional communities, to which we contribute and receive expert knowledge, could be diminished. If any of the foregoing occurs, the amount of business with the U.S. government and other customers could decrease, and our business, future revenues, financial condition and growth prospects could be adversely affected. A decline in the U.S. government budget, changes in spending or budgetary priorities or delays in contract awards may significantly and adversely affect our future revenues and limit our growth prospects. Revenues under contracts with the DoD and U.S. Intelligence Community, either as a prime contractor or subcontractor to other contractors, represented approximately 44% of our total revenues for fiscal 2021, 49% of our total revenues for fiscal 2020 and 48% of our total revenues for fiscal 2019. Levels of U.S. government and DoD spending are difficult to predict and subject to significant risk. Laws and plans adopted by the U.S. government relating to, along with pressures on and uncertainty surrounding the U.S. federal budget, potential changes in budgetary priorities and defense spending levels, the appropriations process and the permissible federal debt limit, could adversely affect the funding for individual programs and delay purchasing or payment decisions by our customers. Considerable uncertainty exists regarding how future budget and program decisions will unfold, including the defense spending priorities of the U.S. Presidential Administration and Congress and what challenges budget reductions will present for us and our industry generally. Current U.S. government spending levels for defense-related or other programs may not be sustained and future spending and program authorizations may not increase or may decrease or shift to programs in areas where we do not provide services or are less likely to be awarded contracts. Such changes in spending authorizations and budgetary priorities may occur as a result of uncertainty surrounding the federal budget, increasing political pressure and legislation, shifts in spending priorities from defense-related or other programs as a result of competing demands for federal funds, the number and intensity of military conflicts or other factors. If government funding relating to our contracts with the U.S. government or DoD becomes unavailable, or is reduced or delayed, or planned orders are reduced, our contract or subcontract under such programs may be terminated or adjusted by the U.S. government or Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 16 PART I the prime contractor. Our operating results could also be adversely affected by spending caps or changes in the budgetary priorities of the U.S. government or the DoD, as well as delays in program starts or the award of contracts or task orders under contracts. The U.S. government also conducts periodic reviews of U.S. defense strategies and priorities, which may shift DoD or other budgetary priorities, reduce overall U.S. government spending or delay contract or task order awards for defense-related or other programs from which we would otherwise expect to derive a significant portion of our future revenues. In addition, changes to the federal or DoD acquisition system and contracting models could affect whether and how we pursue certain opportunities and the terms under which we are able to do so. A significant decline in overall U.S. government spending, including in the areas of national security, intelligence and homeland security, a significant shift in its spending priorities, the substantial reduction or elimination of particular defense-related programs or significant delays in contract or task order awards for large programs could adversely affect our future revenues and results of operations and limit our growth prospects. Because we depend on U.S. government contracts, a delay in the completion of the U.S. government's budget and appropriation process could delay procurement of the products, services and solutions we provide and adversely affect our future revenues. The funding of U.S. government programs is subject to an annual congressional budget authorization and appropriations process. In years when the U.S. government does not complete its appropriations before the beginning of the new fiscal year on October 1, government operations are typically funded pursuant to a "continuing resolution," which allows federal government agencies to operate at spending levels approved in the previous appropriations cycle, but does not authorize new spending initiatives. When the U.S. government operates under a continuing resolution, delays can occur in the procurement of the products, services and solutions that we provide and may result in new initiatives being canceled. From time to time, we have experienced a decline in revenues in our fourth quarter as a result of this annual appropriations cycle, and we could experience similar declines in revenues from future delays in the appropriations process. When the U.S. government fails to complete its appropriations process or provide for a continuing resolution, a full or partial federal government shutdown may result. A federal government shutdown could, in turn, result in our incurrence of substantial labor or other costs without reimbursement under customer contracts, the delay or cancellation of key programs or the delay of contract payments, which could have a negative effect on our cash flows and adversely affect our future results of operations. Congress appropriates funds on an annual fiscal year basis for many programs, even though the program performance period may extend over several years. Consequently, programs are often partially funded initially and additional funds are committed only as Congress makes further appropriations. If we incur costs in excess of funds obligated on a contract, we may be at risk for reimbursement of those costs unless or until additional funds are obligated to the contract. In addition, when supplemental appropriations are required to operate the U.S. government or fund specific programs and passage of legislation needed to approve any supplemental appropriations bill is delayed, the overall funding environment for our business could be adversely affected. Due to the competitive process to obtain contracts and the likelihood of bid protests, we may be unable to achieve or sustain revenue growth and profitability. We expect that a majority of the business that we seek in the foreseeable future will be awarded through a competitive bidding process. The U.S. government has increasingly relied on contracts that are subject to a continuing competitive bidding process, including GSA Schedule and other multi-award contracts, which has resulted in greater competition and increased pricing pressure. The competitive bidding process involves substantial costs, including significant cost and managerial time to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us, may be split among competitors or that may be awarded but for which we do not receive meaningful task orders, and several risks, including the risk of inaccurately estimating the resources and costs that will be required to fulfill any contract we win. Following contract award, we may encounter significant expense, delay, contract modifications or even contract loss as a result of our competitors protesting the award of contracts to us in competitive bidding. Any resulting loss or delay of start-up and funding of work under protested contract awards may adversely affect our revenues and profitability. In addition, multi-award contracts require that we make sustained post-award efforts to obtain task orders under the contract. As a result, we may not be able to obtain these task orders or recognize revenues under these multi-award contracts. We are also experiencing increased competition generally, which impacts our ability to obtain contracts; see the risk factor “We face intense competition that can impact our ability to obtain contracts and therefore affect our future revenues and growth prospects.” Our failure to compete effectively in this procurement environment would adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 17 PART I The U.S. government may terminate, cancel, modify or curtail our contracts at any time prior to their completion and, if we do not replace them, this may adversely affect our future revenues and profitability. Many of the U.S. government programs in which we participate as a contractor or subcontractor extend for several years and include one or more base years and one or more option years. These programs are typically funded on an annual basis. Under our contracts, the U.S. government generally has the right not to exercise options to extend or expand our contracts and may otherwise terminate, cancel, modify or curtail our contracts at its convenience. Any decisions by the U.S. government to not exercise contract options or to terminate, cancel, modify or curtail our major programs or contracts would adversely affect our revenues, revenue growth and profitability. We have experienced and continue to experience periodic performance issues under certain of our contracts. Some of our contracts involve developing complex systems and products to achieve challenging customer goals in a competitive procurement environment. As a result, we sometimes experience technological or other performance difficulties, which have in the past and may in the future result in delays, cost overruns and failures in our performance of these contracts. If a government customer terminates a contract for default, we may be exposed to liability, including for excess costs incurred by the customer in procuring undelivered services and products from another source. Depending on the nature and value of the contract, a performance issue or termination for default could cause our actual results to differ from those anticipated and could harm our reputation. We face intense competition that can impact our ability to obtain contracts and therefore affect our future revenues and growth prospects. Our business is highly competitive and we compete with larger companies with greater name recognition, financial resources and a larger technical staff. We also compete with smaller, more specialized companies that can concentrate their resources on particular areas. Additionally, we compete with the U.S. government’s own capabilities and federal non-profit contract research centers. For example, some customers, including the DoD, are turning to commercial contractors, rather than traditional defense contractors, for some products and services, and may utilize small business contractors or determine to source work internally rather than hiring a contractor . The markets in which we operate are characterized by rapidly changing customer needs and technology and our success depends on our ability to invest in and develop services and products that address such needs. To remain competitive, we must consistently provide superior service, technology and performance on a cost-effective basis to our customers while understanding customer priorities and maintaining customer relationships. Our competitors may be able to provide our customers with different or greater capabilities or technologies or better contract terms than we can provide, including technical qualifications, past contract experience, geographic presence, price and the availability of qualified professional personnel, or be willing to accept more risk or lower profitability in competing for contracts. Some of our competitors have made or could make acquisitions of businesses, or establish teaming or other agreements among themselves or third parties, which allow them to offer more competitive and comprehensive solutions. As a result of such acquisitions or arrangements, our current or potential competitors may be able to accelerate the adoption of new technologies that better address customer needs, devote more significant resources to bring these products and services to market, initiate or withstand substantial price competition, develop and expand their product and service offerings more quickly than we do or limit our access to certain suppliers. These competitive pressures in our market or our failure to compete effectively may result in fewer orders, reduced revenue and margins and loss of market share. Further industry consolidation may also impact customers’ perceptions of the viability of smaller or even mid-size software firms and consequently customers’ willingness to purchase from such firms. Legal and Regulatory Risks Our failure to comply with various complex procurement rules and regulations could result in our being liable for penalties, including termination of our U.S. government contracts, disqualification from bidding on future U.S. government contracts and suspension or debarment from U.S. government contracting. We must comply with laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of U.S. government contracts, which affect how we do business with our customers. Such laws and regulations may potentially impose added costs on our business and our failure to comply with them may lead to civil or criminal penalties, termination of our U.S. government contracts, or suspension or debarment from contracting with federal agencies. For additional background on the regulations that apply to our business and the related compliance risks, see “Regulation” within Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the risk factor “Our business is subject to governmental review and investigation, which could adversely affect our financial position, operating results and growth prospects ." The FAR and Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 18 PART I many of our U.S. government contracts contain organizational conflict of interest clauses that may limit our ability to compete for or perform certain other contracts or other types of services for particular customers. Organizational conflicts of interest arise when we engage in activities that may make us unable to render impartial assistance or advice to the U.S. government, impair our objectivity in performing contract work or provide us with an unfair competitive advantage. A conflict of interest issue that precludes our competition for or performance on a significant program or contract could harm our prospects. The U.S. government may adopt new contract rules and regulations or revise its procurement practices in a manner adverse to us at any time. Our industry has experienced, and we expect it will continue to experience, significant changes to business practices as a result of an increased focus on affordability, efficiencies and recovery of costs, among other items. U.S. government agencies may face restrictions or pressure regarding the type and amount of services that they may obtain from private contractors. Legislation, regulations and initiatives dealing with procurement reform, mitigation of potential conflicts of interest and environmental responsibility or sustainability, as well as any resulting shifts in the buying practices of U.S. government agencies, such as increased usage of fixed-price contracts, multiple-award contracts and small business set-aside contracts, could have adverse effects on government contractors, including us. Any of these changes could impair our ability to obtain new contracts or renew our existing contracts when customers recompete those contracts. Any new contracting requirements or procurement methods could be costly or administratively difficult to implement and could adversely affect our future revenues, profitability and prospects. As a U.S. government contractor, our partners and we are subject to reviews, audits and cost adjustments by the U.S. government, which could adversely affect our profitability, cash position or growth prospects if resolved unfavorably to us. U.S. government contractors (including their subcontractors and others with whom they do business) operate in a highly regulated environment and are routinely audited and reviewed by the U.S. government and its agencies, including the DCAA, DCMA, the DoD Inspector General and others. These agencies review a contractor's performance on government contracts, cost structure, indirect rates and pricing practices, compliance with applicable contracting and procurement laws, regulations, terms and standards, and the adequacy of our systems and processes in meeting government requirements. They also review the adequacy of the contractor’s compliance with government standards for its business systems, including a contractor's accounting system, earned value management system, estimating system, materials management and accounting system, property management system and purchasing system. As a result of increased scrutiny on contractors and U.S. government agencies, audits and reviews are conducted rigorously and the applicable standards are strictly interpreted, increasing the likelihood of an audit or review resulting in an adverse outcome. A finding of significant control deficiencies in our system audits or other reviews can result in decremented billing rates to our U.S. government customers until the control deficiencies are corrected and the DCMA accepts our remediations. Government audits and reviews may conclude that our practices are not consistent with applicable laws and regulations and result in adjustments to contract costs and mandatory customer refunds. Such adjustments can be applied retroactively, which could result in significant customer refunds. Our receipt of adverse audit findings or the failure to obtain an "approved" determination of our various business systems from the responsible U.S. government agency could significantly and adversely affect our business, including our ability to bid on new contracts and our competitive position in the bidding process. A determination of noncompliance could also result in the U.S. government imposing penalties and sanctions against us, including reductions of the value of contracts, contract modifications or termination, withholding of payments, the loss of export/import privileges, administrative or civil judgments and liabilities, criminal judgments or convictions, liabilities and consent or other voluntary decrees or agreements, other sanctions, the assessment of penalties, fines or compensatory, treble or other damages or non-monetary relief or actions, suspension or debarment, suspension of payments and increased government scrutiny that could negatively impact our reputation, delay or adversely affect our ability to invoice and receive timely payment on contracts, perform contracts or compete for contracts with the U.S. government. As of December 31, 2021, indirect cost audits by the DCAA remain open for fiscal 2016 and subsequent fiscal years. Although we have recorded contract revenues based upon our estimate of costs that we believe will be approved upon final audit or review, we cannot predict the outcome of any ongoing or future audits or reviews and adjustments and, if future adjustments exceed our estimates, our profitability may be adversely affected. Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 19 PART I Our business is subject to governmental review and investigation, which could adversely affect our financial position, operating results and growth prospects. We are routinely subject to governmental investigations relating to compliance with various laws and regulations with respect to our role as a contractor to federal, state and local government customers and in connection with performing services in countries outside the U.S. If a review or investigation identifies improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to disgorgement of profits, fines, damages, litigation, civil or criminal penalties, exclusion from sales channels or sales opportunities, injunctions or administrative sanctions, including the termination of contracts, the triggering of price reduction clauses, suspension of payments, suspension or debarment from doing business with governmental agencies or other consequences. We may suffer harm to our reputation if allegations of impropriety are made against us, which would impair our ability to win new contract awards or receive contract renewals. Penalties and sanctions are not uncommon in our industry. If we incur a material penalty or administrative sanction or otherwise suffer harm to our reputation, our revenues, profitability, cash position and future prospects could be adversely affected. More generally, increases in scrutiny and investigations from government organizations, legislative bodies or agencies into business practices and major programs supported by contractors may lead to increased legal costs and may harm our reputation, revenues, profitability and growth prospects. Investigations, audits, claims, disputes, enforcement actions, litigation, arbitration or other legal proceedings could require us to pay potentially large damage awards and could be costly to defend, which would adversely affect our cash balances and profitability, and could damage our reputation. We are subject to and may become a party to various other litigation, claims, investigations, audits, enforcement actions, arbitrations or other legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of our business. Adverse judgments or settlements in some or all of these legal disputes may result in significant monetary damages, penalties or injunctive relief against us. Any claims or litigation could be costly to defend, and even if we are successful or fully indemnified or insured, they could damage our reputation and make it more difficult to compete effectively or obtain adequate insurance in the future, and responding to any action may result in a significant diversion of management's attention and resources. Litigation and other claims are subject to inherent uncertainties and management’s view of these matters may change in the future. For a description of our current legal proceedings, see "Item 3. Legal Proceedings " along with "Note 21—Commitments and Contingencies" of the notes to the consolidated financial statements contained within this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our business and operations expose us to numerous legal and regulatory requirements, and any violation of these requirements could harm our business. We are subject to numerous state, federal and international laws and directives and regulations in the U.S. and abroad that involve matters central to our business, including data privacy and protection, employment and labor relations, immigration, taxation, anti-corruption, anti-bribery, import-export controls, trade restrictions, internal and disclosure control obligations, securities regulation and anti-competition. Compliance with legal requirements is costly, time-consuming and requires significant resources. We also conduct business in certain identified growth areas, such as health information technology, energy and environmental services, which are highly regulated and may expose us to increased compliance risk. Violations of one or more of these legal requirements in the conduct of our business could result in significant fines and other damages, criminal sanctions against us or our officers, prohibitions on doing business and damage to our reputation. Violations of these regulations or contractual obligations related to regulatory compliance in connection with the performance of customer contracts could also result in liability for significant monetary damages, fines and criminal prosecution, unfavorable publicity and other reputational damage, restrictions on our ability to compete for certain work and allegations by our customers that we have not performed our contractual obligations. Our business is subject to complex and evolving laws and regulations regarding privacy and data security which could subject us to investigations, claims or monetary penalties against us, require us to change our business practices or otherwise adversely affect our revenues and profitability. We are subject to a variety of laws and regulations in the U.S. and abroad relating to data privacy and security. These laws and regulations are complex, constantly evolving, and may be subject to significant change in the future. In addition, the application, interpretation and enforcement of these laws and regulations are often uncertain, particularly in new and rapidly evolving areas of technology, and may differ in material respects among jurisdictions, interpreted and Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 20 PART I applied inconsistently among jurisdictions or in a manner that is inconsistent with our current policies and practices, all of which can make compliance challenging and costly, and expose us to related risks and liabilities. As a contractor supporting defense, health care, and national security clients, we are also subject to certain additional, specific regulatory compliance requirements relating to data privacy and security. Under DFARS and other federal regulations, we are required to implement the security and privacy controls in National Institute of Standards and Technology Special Publications on certain of our networks and information technology systems. To the extent that we do not comply with the applicable security and control requirements, and there is unauthorized access or disclosure of sensitive information, this could potentially result in a contract termination or information security issues, which could materially and adversely affect our business and financial results and lead to reputational harm. We will also be subject to the DoD Cybersecurity Maturity Model Certification (“CMMC”) requirements, which will require contractors processing critical national security information on their IT systems to receive specific third-party certifications relating to specified cybersecurity standards to be eligible for contract awards. In addition, our subcontractors, and in some cases our vendors, also may be required to adhere to the CMMC program requirements and, potentially, to achieve certification. Should our supply chain fail to meet compliance requirements or achieve certification, this may adversely affect our ability to receive awards or execute on relevant government programs. We are in the process of evaluating our readiness and preparing for the CMMC, but to the extent we are unable to achieve certification in advance of contract awards that specify the requirement in the future, we will be unable to bid on such contract awards or follow-on awards for existing work with the DoD, depending on the level of standard as required for each solicitation, which could adversely impact our revenue and profitability. In addition, any obligations that may be imposed on us under the CMMC may be different from or in addition to those otherwise required by applicable laws and regulations, which may cause additional expense for compliance. The overarching complexity of data privacy and security laws and regulations around the world pose a compliance challenge that could manifest in costs, damages or liability in other forms as a result of failure to implement proper programmatic controls, failure to adhere to those controls, or the breach of applicable data privacy and security requirements by us, our employees, our business partners (including our service providers, suppliers or subcontractors) or our customers. We also expect that there will continue to be new proposed laws, regulations and industry standards concerning data privacy and security, and we cannot yet determine the impact such future laws, regulations and standards, or amendments to or re-interpretations of existing laws, regulations or standards, may have on our business. Any failure or perceived failure by us, our service providers, suppliers, subcontractors or other business partners to comply with applicable laws, regulations and other obligations in these areas could result in regulatory actions or lawsuits against us, legal liability, fines, damages and other costs. We may also incur substantial expenses in implementing and maintaining compliance with such laws, regulations and other obligations. For additional background on the privacy laws that apply to our business and the related compliance risks, see “Regulation” within Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Business and Operational Risks The extent to which our business will be adversely affected by COVID-19 or other health epidemics, pandemics and similar outbreaks is highly uncertain and cannot be predicted. The outbreak and global spread of COVID-19, and the preventative or protective actions that governments, corporations, individuals and we are taking and may continue to take in an effort to limit the impact of COVID-19, have resulted in a period of business disruption and increased economic uncertainty. The spread of COVID-19 has caused us to modify our business practices, including vaccination and testing requirements, employee travel, access to customer sites, employee and contractor remote work and restrictions to physical participation in meetings, events and conferences. Illness, travel restrictions or other workforce disruptions could adversely affect our supply chain and our access to suppliers of important technologies and components, our ability to timely and satisfactorily complete our clients’ projects, our ability to provide services to our clients or our other business processes. We may take further actions that we determine are in the best interests of our employees, customers and business partners or may be required by government authorities. For example, on September 9, 2021, President Biden issued a series of executive orders to combat COVID-19, including an executive order that would have required us, as a federal contractor, to have our employees fully vaccinated unless the employee is legally entitled to a religious or medical exemption. That executive order is currently under a nationwide injunction and its future is uncertain. In any event, there is no certainty that such measures will be sufficient to mitigate the risks posed by COVID-19. In addition, as local conditions and regulations continue to permit the return of employees to business generally, our workforce may not be able to return to work in person immediately, if at all, or may instead choose to pursue competing employment opportunities, including as Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 21 PART I a result of transportation, childcare, and ongoing health issues, which could negatively affect our business. If significant portions of our workforce are unable to work effectively, including because of illness, quarantines, government actions, increased employee attrition, facility closures or other restrictions due to COVID-19, or do not comply with our COVID-19 mitigation efforts or facility access requirements, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely impacted. Government agencies are our primary customers and the long-term impact of increased government spending in response to COVID-19 is uncertain. This could result in a re-evaluation of U.S. government spending levels and priorities, which could impact our business performance. The situation surrounding COVID-19 remains fluid and the likelihood of an impact on us that could be material increases the longer the virus impacts activity levels in the locations in which we operate. In particular, the emergence of new and more transmissible COVID-19 variants, including the efficacy of vaccines against such variants, booster vaccinations, or a lack of public acceptance of vaccines and low vaccination rates in certain parts of the U.S., may delay economic recovery. Further, even if vaccines are widely distributed and accepted, there can be no assurance that vaccines will ultimately be successful in limiting or stopping the spread of COVID-19. The global spread of COVID-19 has resulted in a substantial decline in demand for air travel, which has adversely impacted the demand for products and services related to our airport security detection and automation business. We are not able to predict whether COVID-19 will result in permanent changes to air travel behaviors, including a permanent reduction in business travel as a result of the increased use of teleconferencing products and, more broadly, a general reluctance to travel by consumers, each of which has, and could continue to, impact our business. Further, new contract awards have been and may continue to be delayed and our ability to perform on our existing contracts has been and may continue to be delayed or impaired, which will negatively impact our revenues. In addition, our program costs have increased as a result of COVID-19, and these cost increases may not be fully recoverable or adequately covered by insurance or equitable adjustments to contract prices. Misconduct of employees, subcontractors, agents, suppliers, business partners or joint ventures and others working on our behalf could cause us to lose existing contracts or customers and adversely affect our ability to obtain new contracts and customers and could have a significant adverse impact on our business and reputation. Misconduct could include fraud or other improper activities such as falsifying time or other records and violations of laws, such as the Anti-Kickback Act, and the failure to comply with our policies and procedures or with federal, state or local government procurement regulations, regulations regarding the use and safeguarding of classified or other protected information, legislation regarding the pricing of labor and other costs in government contracts, laws and regulations relating to environmental, health or safety matters, bribery of foreign government officials, import-export control, lobbying or similar activities and any other applicable laws or regulations. Any data loss or information security lapses resulting in the compromise of personal information or the improper use or disclosure of sensitive or classified information could result in claims, remediation costs, regulatory investigations or sanctions against us, corruption or disruption of our systems or those of our customers, impairment of our ability to provide services to our customers, loss of current and future contracts, indemnity obligations, serious harm to our reputation and other potential liabilities. See also the risk factor “Cybersecurity breaches and other information security incidents could negatively impact our business and financial results, impair our ability to effectively provide our services to our clients and cause harm to our reputation or competitive position . ” Although we have implemented policies, procedures, training and other compliance controls to prevent and detect these activities, these precautions may not prevent all misconduct, and as a result, we could face unknown risks or losses. This risk of improper conduct may increase as we continue to expand and do business with new partners. In the ordinary course of our business we form and are members of joint ventures (meaning joint efforts or business arrangements of any type). Our failure to comply with applicable laws or regulations could damage our reputation and subject us to administrative, civil or criminal investigations and enforcement actions, fines and penalties, restitution or other damages, loss of security clearance, loss of current and future customer contracts, loss of privileges and other sanctions, including suspension or debarment from contracting with federal, state or local government agencies, any of which would adversely affect our business, reputation and our future results. Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 22 PART I A failure to attract, train, retain and motivate skilled employees, including our management team, would adversely affect our ability to execute our strategy and may disrupt our operations. Our continued success and ability to compete in a highly competitive environment depend on our ability to recruit and retain highly trained and skilled science, engineering, technical, math and professional personnel. Competition for skilled personnel is intense and many U.S. government programs also require contractors to have security clearances, certain of which can be difficult and time-consuming to obtain and personnel with such security clearances are in great demand. As a result, it is difficult to retain employees and meet all of our needs for employees in a timely manner, which may affect our growth. Although we intend to continue to devote significant resources to recruit, train and retain qualified employees, we may not be able to attract, effectively train and retain these employees. Any failure to do so could impair our ability to perform our contractual obligations efficiently and timely meet our customers’ needs and win new business, which could adversely affect our future results. In addition, certain personnel may be required to receive various security clearances to work on certain customer engagements or to perform certain tasks. Necessary security clearances may be delayed or not obtained, which may negatively impact our ability to perform on such engagements in a timely matter or at all. We believe that our success will also depend on the continued employment of a highly qualified and experienced senior management team and its ability to retain existing business, generate new business, execute on our business plans in an efficient and effective manner, and continually develop new members of senior management. An inability to retain appropriately qualified and experienced senior executives or our failure to continue to develop new members could cause us to lose customers or new business opportunities. We may not realize the full amounts reflected in our backlog as revenues, which could adversely affect our expected future revenues and growth prospects. As of December 31, 2021, our total backlog was $34.5 billion, including $7.4 billion in funded backlog. Due to the U.S. government's ability to not exercise contract options or to terminate, modify or curtail our programs or contracts and the rights of our non-U.S. government customers to cancel contracts and purchase orders in certain circumstances, we may realize less than expected revenues or may never realize revenues from some of the contracts that are included in our backlog. Our unfunded backlog, in particular, contains management’s estimate of amounts expected to be realized on unfunded contract work that may never be realized as revenues. If we fail to realize as revenues amounts included in our backlog, our future revenues, profitability and growth prospects could be adversely affected. Our earnings and profitability may vary based on the mix of our contracts and may be adversely affected by our failure to estimate and manage costs, time and resources accurately. We generate revenues under various types of contracts, including cost-reimbursement, FP-IF, T&M, FP-LOE and FFP contracts. Our earnings and profitability may vary materially depending on changes in the proportionate amount of revenues derived from each type of contract, the nature of services or products provided, as well as the achievement of performance objectives and the stage of performance at which the right to receive fees, particularly under incentive-fee and award-fee contracts, is finally determined. Cost-reimbursement and T&M contracts are generally less profitable than FFP contracts. Our operating results in any period may also be affected, positively or negatively, by customers' variable purchasing patterns of our more profitable proprietary products. Our profitability is adversely affected when we incur contract costs that we cannot bill to our customers. To varying degrees, each of our contract types involves some risk underestimating the costs and resources necessary to fulfill the contract. While FFP contracts allow us to benefit from cost savings, these contracts also increase our exposure to the risk of cost overruns. Revenues from FFP contracts represented approximately 37% of our total revenues for fiscal 2021. When making proposals on these types of contracts, we rely heavily on our estimates of costs and timing to complete the associated projects, as well as assumptions regarding technical issues. In each case, our failure to accurately estimate costs or the resources and technology needed to perform our contracts or to effectively manage and control our costs during performance could result, and in some instances has resulted, in reduced profits or losses. More generally, any increased or unexpected costs or unanticipated delays in the performance of our contracts, including costs and delays caused by contractual disputes or other factors outside of our control, such as performance failures of our subcontractors, rising inflation, natural disasters or other force majeure events, could make our contracts less profitable than expected or unprofitable. We use estimates in recognizing revenues, and if we make changes to estimates used in recognizing revenues, our profitability may be adversely affected. We recognize revenue on our service-based contracts primarily over time as there is a continuous transfer of control to the customer throughout the contract as we perform the promised services, which generally requires estimates of total Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 23 PART I costs at completion, fees earned on the contract, or both. This estimation process, particularly due to the technical nature of the services performed and the long-term nature of certain contracts, is complex and involves significant judgment. Adjustments to original estimates are often required as work progresses, experience is gained and additional information becomes known, even though the scope of the work required under the contract may not change. Any adjustment as a result of a change in estimate is recognized as events become known. Changes in the underlying assumptions, circumstances or estimates could result in adjustments that may adversely affect our future financial results. Cybersecurity breaches and other information security incidents could negatively impact our business and financial results, impair our ability to effectively provide our services to our clients and cause harm to our reputation or competitive position. As a government contractor and a provider of information technology services operating in multiple regulated industries and geographies, we and our service providers, suppliers and subcontractors collect, store, transmit and otherwise process sensitive information, including personally identifiable information, protected health information, personnel information, classified information, contractor unclassified information, intellectual property and financial information, concerning our business, employees and customers. Therefore, we are continuously exposed to unauthorized attempts to compromise such sensitive information through cyber-attacks, insider threats and other information security threats, including physical break-ins and malicious insiders. Any electronic or physical break-in or other security breach or compromise of our information technology systems and networks or facilities, or those of our service providers, suppliers or subcontractors, may jeopardize the security of information stored or transmitted through these systems and networks or stored in those facilities. This could lead to disruptions in mission-critical systems, unauthorized release of confidential or otherwise protected information and corruption of data or systems. We could also be potentially subject to operational downtimes and delays and other detrimental impacts on our operations or ability to provide products and services to our customers. Some of these risks may be heightened due to protocols related to remote work implemented as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic. We are also increasingly subject to customer-driven cybersecurity certification requirements, which are expected to be necessary to win future contracts. Such security incidents also could result in liability or trigger other obligations under such contracts or increase the difficulty of winning future contracts. Many statutory requirements, both in the U.S. and abroad, also include obligations for companies to provide notice of data security incidents involving certain types of data (including obligations to notify affected individuals and regulators in the event of security breaches involving certain personal data), which could result from breaches of our service providers, our suppliers or subcontractors. Although we have implemented policies, procedures and controls to protect against, detect and mitigate these threats and attacks, we and our service providers, suppliers and subcontractors have faced and continue to face advanced and persistent attacks on our information systems. We cannot guarantee that future incidents will not occur, and if an incident does occur, our incident response planning may not prove fully adequate. We may also not be able to mitigate its impacts successfully. Techniques used by others to gain unauthorized access to sensitive information or disrupt systems and networks for economic or strategic gain are constantly evolving, increasingly sophisticated, and increasingly difficult to detect and successfully defend against. These techniques include cyberattacks, phishing and impersonating authorized users, among others, and may be perpetrated by internal bad actors, such as employees or contractors, or by third parties (including traditional computer hackers, persons involved with well-funded organized crime or state-sponsored efforts). We seek to detect and investigate all information security incidents and to prevent their occurrence, prolongation or recurrence. We continue to invest in and improve our threat protection, detection and mitigation policies, procedures and controls. In addition, we work with other companies in the industry and government participants on increased awareness and enhanced protections against information security and malicious insider threats. However, because of the evolving nature and sophistication of these security threats, which can be difficult to detect, there can be no assurance that our policies, procedures and controls, or those of our service providers, suppliers or subcontractors, have protected against, detected, mitigated or will detect, prevent or mitigate, any of these threats and we cannot predict the full impact of any such past or future incident. We may be currently unaware of certain vulnerabilities or lack the capability to detect them, which may allow them to persist in our information technology environment over long periods and, even if discovered, our remediation efforts may not be completely successful. Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 24 PART I We also may experience similar security threats to the information technology systems that we develop, install or maintain under customer contracts. Although we work cooperatively with our customers and other business partners, including our service providers, suppliers and subcontractors, to seek to minimize the potential for and impact of cyberattacks and other security threats, we must rely on the safeguards put in place by those entities. See also the risk factor “Internal system or service failures, or failures in the systems or services of third parties on which we rely, could disrupt our business and impair our ability to effectively provide our services and products to our customers, which could damage our reputation and adversely affect our revenues and profitability . ” The occurrence of any unauthorized access to, attacks on or security breaches of our or our service providers', suppliers' or subcontractors' information technology infrastructure, systems or networks or data, could disrupt our infrastructure, systems, networks or those of our customers, impair our ability to provide services to our customers and may jeopardize the security of data collected, stored, transmitted or otherwise processed through our information technology infrastructure, systems and networks. As a result, we could be exposed to claims, fines, penalties, loss of revenues, product development delays, compromise, corruption or loss of confidential, proprietary or sensitive information (including personal information or technical business information), contract terminations and damages, remediation costs and other costs and expenses, regulatory investigations or sanctions, indemnity obligations and other potential liabilities. Any of the foregoing could adversely affect our reputation, ability to win work on sensitive contracts or loss of current and future contracts (including sensitive U.S. government contracts), business operations and financial results. We have insurance against some cyber-risks and attacks; however, our insurance coverage may not be sufficient to offset the impact of a material loss event, and such insurance may increase in cost or cease to be available on commercial terms in the future. Internal system or service failures, or failures in the systems or services of third parties on which we rely, could disrupt our business and impair our ability to effectively provide our services and products to our customers, which could damage our reputation and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Any system or service disruptions, including those caused by ongoing projects to improve our information technology systems and the delivery of services, whether through our shared services organization or outsourced services, if not anticipated and appropriately mitigated, could materially and adversely affect our business including, among other things, an adverse effect on our ability to perform on contracts, bill our customers for work performed on our contracts, collect the amounts that have been billed and produce accurate financial statements in a timely manner. We, and the service providers, suppliers and subcontractors on which we rely, are also subject to systems failures, including network, software or hardware failures, whether caused by us, third-party service providers, cybersecurity threats, malicious insiders, natural disasters, power shortages, terrorist attacks, pandemics or other events, which could cause loss of data and interruptions or delays in our business, cause us to incur remediation costs, subject us to claims and damage our reputation. In addition, the failure or disruption of our communications, or those of our service providers, suppliers or subcontractors, could cause us to interrupt or suspend our operations or otherwise adversely affect our business. Our property and business interruption insurance may be inadequate to compensate us for all losses that may occur as a result of any system or operational failure or disruption. Our business is subject to disruption caused by natural disasters that could adversely affect our profitability and overall financial position. We have significant operations, including infrastructure, information technology systems, research facilities and centers of excellence, located in regions that may be exposed to physical risks, such as hurricanes, earthquakes, other damaging storms, water levels, wildfires and other natural disasters. Our subcontractors and suppliers are also subject to natural disasters that could affect their ability to deliver or perform under a contract, including as a result of disruptions to their workforce and critical industrial infrastructure needed for normal business operations. Although we maintain crisis management and disaster response plans, such events could make it difficult or impossible for us to deliver our services to our customers, could decrease demand for our services, could make existing customers unable or unwilling to fulfill their contractual requirements to us, including their payment obligations, and could cause us to incur substantial expense, including expenses or liabilities arising from potential litigation. If insurance or other risk transfer mechanisms are unavailable or insufficient to recover all costs or if we experience a significant disruption to our business due to a natural disaster, it could adversely affect our financial position, results of operations and cash flows. There is also an increasing concern over the risks of climate change and related environmental sustainability matters. In addition to physical risks, climate change risk includes longer-term shifts in climate patterns, such as extreme heat, sea level rise, and more frequent and prolonged drought. Such events could disrupt our operations or those of our customers or third parties on which we rely, including through direct damage to assets and indirect impacts from supply chain disruption and market volatility. Additionally, transitioning to a low-carbon economy may entail extensive policy, Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 25 PART I legal, technology and market initiatives. Transition risks, including changes in consumer preferences and additional regulatory requirements or taxes, could increase our expenses and undermine our strategies. In addition, our reputation and client relationships may be damaged as a result of our practices related to climate change, including our involvement, or our clients’ involvement, in certain industries or projects associated with causing or exacerbating climate change, as well as any decisions we make to continue to conduct or change our activities in response to considerations relating to climate change. Customer systems failures could damage our reputation and adversely affect our revenues and profitability. Many of the systems and networks that we develop, install and maintain for our customers involve managing and protecting personal information and information relating to national security and other sensitive government functions. While we have programs designed to comply with relevant privacy and security laws and restrictions, if a system or network that we develop, install or maintain were to fail or experience a security breach or service interruption, whether caused by us, third-party service providers, cybersecurity threats or other events, we may experience loss of revenue, remediation costs or face claims for damages or contract termination. Any such event could cause serious harm to our reputation and prevent us from having access to or being eligible for further work on such systems and networks. Our errors and omissions liability insurance may be inadequate to compensate us for all of the damages that we may incur and, as a result, our future results could be adversely affected. Our success depends, in part, on our ability to work with complex and rapidly changing technologies to meet the needs of our customers. We design and develop technologically advanced and innovative products and services applied by our customers in various environments. The needs of our customers change and evolve regularly and in particular by complex and rapidly evolving technologies. Our success depends upon our ability to identify emerging technological trends, develop technologically advanced, innovative and cost-effective products and services and market these products and services to our customers. Our success also depends on our continued access to suppliers of important technologies and components. Many of our contracts contain performance obligations that require innovative design capabilities, are technologically complex, or depend on factors not wholly within our control. Problems and delays in development or delivery as a result of issues with respect to design, technology, licensing and patent rights, labor, learning curve assumptions or materials and components could prevent us from achieving such contractual requirements. Failure to meet these obligations could adversely affect our profitability and future prospects. In addition, our offerings cannot be tested and proven in all situations and are otherwise subject to unforeseen problems that could negatively affect revenue and profitability, such as problems with quality and workmanship, country of origin, delivery of subcontractor components or services and unplanned degradation of product performance. Among the factors that may affect revenue and profits could be unforeseen costs and expenses not covered by insurance or indemnification from the customer, diversion of management focus in responding to unforeseen problems, loss of follow-on work, and, in the case of certain contracts, repayment to the government customer of contract costs and fee payments we previously received. We have classified contracts with the U.S. government, which may limit investor insight into portions of our business. We derive a portion of our revenues from programs with the U.S. government and its agencies that are subject to security restrictions (e.g., contracts involving classified information and classified programs), which preclude the dissemination of information and technology that is classified for national security purposes under applicable law and regulation. In general, access to classified information, technology, facilities or programs requires appropriate personnel security clearances, is subject to additional contract oversight and potential liability and may also require appropriate facility clearances and other specialized infrastructure. In the event of a security incident involving classified information, technology, facilities, programs or personnel holding clearances, we may be subject to legal, financial, operational and reputational harm. We are limited in our ability to provide information about these classified programs, their risks or any disputes or claims relating to such programs. As a result, investors have less insight into our classified business or our business overall. However, historically the business risks associated with our work on classified programs have not differed materially from those of our other government contracts. Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 26 PART I We have made and continue to make acquisitions, investments, joint ventures and divestitures that involve numerous risks and uncertainties. We selectively pursue strategic acquisitions, investments and joint ventures. These transactions require a significant investment of time and resources and may disrupt our business and distract our management from other responsibilities. Even if successful, these transactions could reduce earnings for a number of reasons, including the amortization of intangible assets, impairment charges, acquired operations that are not yet profitable or the payment of additional consideration under earn-out arrangements if an acquisition performs better than expected. Acquisitions, investments and joint ventures pose many other risks that could adversely affect our reputation, operations or financial results, including that we may not be able to identify, compete effectively for or complete suitable acquisitions and investments at prices we consider attractive; we may not be able to accurately estimate the financial effect of acquisitions and investments on our business or realize anticipated synergies, business growth or profitability and may be unable to recover investments in any such acquisitions and investments; we may not be able to manage the integration process for acquisitions successfully, and the integration process may divert management time and focus from operating our business, including as a result of incompatible accounting, information management or other control systems; acquired technologies, capabilities, products and service offerings, particularly those that are still in development when acquired, may not perform as expected, may have defects or may not be integrated into our business as expected; we may have trouble retaining key employees and customers of an acquired business; we may need to implement or improve controls, procedures and policies at a business that prior to the acquisition may have lacked sufficiently effective controls, procedures and policies, including those relating to financial reporting, revenue recognition or other financial or control deficiencies; we may assume legal or regulatory risks, particularly with respect to smaller businesses that have immature business processes and compliance programs, or we may face litigation or material liabilities that were not identified as part of our due diligence or for which we are unable to receive a purchase price adjustment or reimbursement through indemnification, including claims from terminated employees, customers, former stockholders or other third parties, or there may be other unanticipated write-offs or charges; we may be required to spend a significant amount of cash or to incur debt, resulting in increased fixed payment obligations or covenants or other restrictions on us, or issue shares of our common stock or convertible debt, resulting in dilution of ownership; we may not be able to influence the operations of our joint ventures effectively, or we may be exposed to certain liabilities if our joint venture partners do not fulfill their obligations; and if our acquisitions, investments or joint ventures fail, perform poorly, or their value is otherwise impaired for any reason, including contractions in credit markets and global economic conditions, our business and financial results could be adversely affected. In addition, we periodically divest businesses, including businesses that are no longer a part of our ongoing strategic plan. These divestitures similarly require a significant investment of time and resources, may disrupt our business, distract management from other responsibilities and may result in losses on disposal or continued financial involvement in the divested business, including through indemnification, guarantee or other financial arrangements, for a period of time following the transaction, which would adversely affect our financial results. Goodwill and other intangible assets represent significant assets on our balance sheet and any impairment of these assets could negatively impact our results of operations. As of December 31, 2021, goodwill and intangible assets, net was 60% of our total assets . The amount of our goodwill may substantially increase in the future as a result of any acquisitions that we make. Intangible assets and goodwill are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable and at least annually in the case of intangible assets with indefinite lives. Examples of events or changes in circumstances indicating that the carrying value of intangible assets may not be recoverable could include a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate, an adverse action or assessment by a regulator, unanticipated competition, loss of key personnel, or a more-likely-than-not expectation that a reporting unit or a significant portion of a reporting unit will be sold or otherwise disposed. Adverse changes in fiscal and economic conditions, such as those related to federal budget cuts and the nation’s debt ceiling, deteriorating market conditions for companies in our industry and unfavorable changes in discount rates could result in an impairment of goodwill and other intangibles. Any future impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets would have a negative impact on our results of operations in the period in which they are recognized. We depend on our teaming arrangements and relationships with other contractors and subcontractors. If we are not able to maintain these relationships, or if these parties fail to satisfy their obligations to us or the customer, our revenues, profitability and growth prospects could be adversely affected. Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 27 PART I We rely on our teaming relationships with other prime contractors and subcontractors, who are also often our competitors in other contexts, to submit bids for large procurements or other opportunities where we believe the combination of services and products provided by us and other companies will help us to win and perform the contract. Our future revenues and growth prospects could be adversely affected if other contractors eliminate or reduce their contract relationships with us or if the U.S. government terminates or reduces these other contractors’ programs, does not award them new contracts or refuses to pay under a contract. Companies that do not have access to U.S. government contracts may perform services as our subcontractor, and that exposure could enhance such companies’ prospect of securing a future position as a prime U.S. government contractor, which could increase competition for future contracts and impair our ability to perform on contracts. We may have disputes with our subcontractors arising from, among other things, the quality and timeliness of work performed by the subcontractor, customer concerns about the subcontractor, our failure to extend existing task orders or issue new task orders under a subcontract, our hiring of a subcontractor’s personnel or the subcontractor’s failure to comply with applicable law. If any of our subcontractors fail to timely meet their contractual obligations or have regulatory compliance or other problems, our ability to fulfill our obligations as a prime contractor or higher tier subcontractor may be jeopardized. Significant losses could arise in future periods and subcontractor performance deficiencies could result in our termination for default. A termination for default could eliminate a revenue source, expose us to liability and have an adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and task orders, especially if the customer is an agency of the U.S. government. Our services and operations sometimes involve using, handling or disposing of hazardous substances, which could expose us to potentially significant liabilities. Some of our services and operations involve the assessment or remediation of environmental hazards, and the use, handling or disposal of hazardous substances. These activities and our operations generally subject us to extensive foreign, federal, state and local environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations, which, among other things, require us to incur costs to comply with these regulations and could impose liability on us for handling or disposing of hazardous substances. Failure to comply with these environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations could result in civil, criminal, regulatory, administrative or contractual sanctions, including fines, penalties or suspension or debarment from contracting with the U.S. government. Our current and previous ownership and operation of real property also subject us to environmental protection laws, some of which hold current or previous owners or operators of businesses and real property liable for hazardous substance releases, even if they did not know of and were not responsible for the releases. If we violate or incur liabilities pursuant to these laws or regulations, our financial condition and operating results could be adversely affected. We could incur significant liabilities and suffer negative publicity if our inspection or detection systems fail to detect bombs, explosives, weapons, contraband or other threats. We design, develop, manufacture, sell, service, and maintain various inspection systems and related integration and automation systems designed to assist in detecting bombs, explosives, weapons, contraband or other threats. In some instances, we also train operators of such systems. Such systems utilize software algorithms to interpret data produced by the system and signal to the operator when a dangerous object or substance may be present. Such algorithms are probabilistic in nature and are generally designed to meet requirements established by regulatory agencies. Many of these systems require that an operator interpret an image of suspicious items within a bag, parcel, container, vehicle or other vessel. Others signal to the operator that further investigation is required, and the training, reliability and competence of the customer's operator are crucial to the detection of suspicious items. Nevertheless, if such a system were to fail to signal to an operator when an explosive or other contraband was, in fact, present, resulting in significant damage, we could become the subject of significant product liability claims. There are many factors, some of which are beyond our control, which could result in the failure of our products to help detect the presence of bombs, explosives, weapons, contraband or other threats. Some of these factors could include inherent limitations in our systems and misuse or malfunction of our systems. The failure of our systems to help detect the presence of any of these dangerous materials could lead to injury, death and extensive property damage and may lead to product liability, professional liability or other claims against us. Further, if our security and inspection systems fail to, or are perceived to have failed to, help detect a threat, we could experience negative publicity and reputational harm, which could adversely affect our business. Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 28 PART I Our insurance, customer indemnifications or other liability protections may be insufficient to protect us from product and other liability claims or losses. We maintain insurance coverage with third-party insurers as part of our overall risk management strategy and because some of our contracts require us to maintain specific insurance coverage limits. Not every risk or liability is or can be protected by insurance, and, for those risks we insure, the limits of coverage that are reasonably obtainable may not be sufficient to cover all actual losses or liabilities incurred. We are limited in the amount of insurance we can obtain to cover certain risks, such as cybersecurity risks and natural hazards, such as earthquakes, fires, extreme weather conditions and pandemics. If any of our third-party insurers fail, becomes insolvent, cancel our coverage or otherwise are unable to provide us with adequate insurance coverage, then our overall risk exposure and our operational expenses would increase, and the management of our business operations would be disrupted. Our insurance may be insufficient to protect us from significant product and other liability claims or losses. Moreover, there is a risk that commercially available liability insurance will not continue to be available to us at a reasonable cost, if at all. In some circumstances we are entitled to certain legal protections or indemnifications from our customers through contractual provisions, laws, regulations or otherwise. However, these protections are not always available, can be difficult to obtain, are typically subject to certain terms or limitations, including the availability of funds, and may not be sufficient to cover all losses or liabilities incurred. If liability claims or losses exceed our current or available insurance coverage, customer indemnifications or other legal protections, our business, financial position, operating results and prospects may be harmed. Any significant claim may have an adverse effect on our industry and market reputation, leading to a substantial decrease in demand for our products and services and reduced revenues. We face risks associated with our international business. Our international business operations may be subject to additional and different risks than our U.S. business. These risks and challenges include failure to comply with U.S. government and foreign laws and regulations applicable to international business, including, without limitation, those related to employment, privacy, taxes, data protection, technology transfer, information security, environment, data transfer, import and export controls (including the ITAR and the anti-boycott provisions of the EAR), sanctions, anti-bribery (including the FCPA, the U.K. Bribery Act and similar foreign anti-corruption laws) and other administrative, legislative or regulatory actions that could materially interfere with our ability to offer our products or services in certain countries or have an adverse impact on our business with the U.S. government, and expose us to risks and costs of noncompliance with such laws and regulations, in addition to administrative, civil or criminal penalties; increased financial and legal risks arising, for example, from foreign exchange rate variability, imposition of tariffs or additional taxes, inflation, restrictive trade policies, longer payment cycles, delays or failures to collect amounts due to us and differing legal systems, and which may adversely affect the performance of our services, sale of our products or repatriation of our profits; and political or economic instability in countries where we provide services and products in support of the U.S. government and other customers in countries, which increases the risk of an incident resulting in injury or loss of life, damage or destruction of property or inability to meet our contractual obligations. Our failure to comply with these laws might subject us to civil and criminal penalties that might have a materially adverse impact on our business operations and our financial position or results of operations. Although our international operations have historically generated a small proportion of our revenues, we are seeking to grow our international business, in which case these regulatory, geopolitical and other factors may have a greater impact on our business in the future and could adversely affect our business. We have only a limited ability to protect or exploit intellectual property rights, which are important to our success. Our failure to adequately obtain, maintain, protect and enforce our proprietary information and intellectual property rights could adversely affect our competitive position. We rely principally on trade secrets to protect much of our intellectual property in cases where we do not believe patent protection is appropriate or obtainable. However, trade secrets are generally difficult to protect. Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights, third parties may attempt to obtain, copy, use or disclose our intellectual property or other proprietary information or technology without our authorization. In addition to protection under the law, we rely on confidentiality or license agreements that we generally enter into with our corporate partners, employees, consultants, advisors, service providers, suppliers, subcontractors and customers, and we generally attempt to limit access to and distribution of our proprietary information. Although our employees and contractors are subject to confidentiality obligations and use restrictions, this protection may be inadequate to deter or prevent them from infringing, misappropriating or otherwise violating our confidential information, technology or other intellectual property or proprietary rights, and can be difficult to enforce. We may be unable to detect unauthorized use of our intellectual property or otherwise take appropriate steps to enforce our rights. We may be required to expend significant resources Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 29 PART I and efforts to monitor and protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights, and we may conclude that, in at least some instances, the benefits of protecting our intellectual property or other proprietary rights may be outweighed by the expense or distraction to our management. We may initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement, misappropriation or other violations of our intellectual property or other proprietary rights or to establish the validity of our intellectual property or other proprietary rights, but outcomes in any such litigation can be difficult to predict, and could be time-consuming, result in significant expense to us and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel. If we are unable to detect or prevent third parties from infringing, misappropriating or otherwise violating our rights in our patents, copyrights, trademarks, trade secrets or other proprietary rights or information, our competitive position could be adversely affected. Also, in connection with our performance of services for the U.S. government, the U.S. government has certain rights to inventions, data, software codes and related material that we develop under government-funded contracts and subcontracts, which means that the U.S. government may disclose or license our information to third parties, including, in some instances, our competitors. Any exercise by the U.S. government of such rights could adversely affect our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. We may also, from time to time, inadvertently infringe the intellectual property rights of others, resulting in claims against our customers or us, or we may face allegations that we or our service providers, suppliers, subcontractors, or customers have violated the intellectual property rights of others. If, with respect to any claim against us for violation of third-party intellectual property rights, we are unable to prevail in the litigation, retain or obtain sufficient rights, develop non-infringing solutions or otherwise alter our business practices on a timely or cost-efficient basis, our business and competitive position may be adversely affected. Such claims also could subject us to significant liability for damages, potentially including treble damages if we are found to have willfully infringed a third party's intellectual property rights. In addition, our contracts generally indemnify our customers for third-party claims for intellectual property infringement by the services and products we provide. Besides the expense of defending such claims and the cost of any large indemnity payments, any dispute with a customer with respect to such obligations also could have adverse effects on our relationship with that customer and other existing customers and new customers, any of which could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. Risks Relating to Our Stock We cannot assure you that we will continue to pay or increase dividends on our common stock or to repurchase shares of our common stock at current levels. The timing, declaration, amount and payment of any future dividends fall within the discretion of our Board and depend on many factors, including our available cash, estimated cash needs, cash deployment alternatives, earnings, financial condition, operating results and capital requirements, as well as limitations in our contractual agreements, applicable law, regulatory constraints, industry practice and other business considerations that our Board considers relevant. In addition, the timing and amount of share repurchases under Board-approved share repurchase plans is within the discretion of management and will depend on many factors, including results of operations, capital requirements and applicable law. Our payment of dividends and share repurchases could vary from historical practices or our stated expectations. A change in our dividend or share repurchase programs could have an adverse effect on the market price of our common stock. Provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could delay or prevent transactions that many stockholders may favor. Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying, discouraging or preventing a merger or acquisition that our stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders might receive a premium for their shares. These restrictions, which may also make it more difficult for our stockholders to elect directors not endorsed by our current directors and management, include mergers and certain other business combinations between a related person and us requiring approval by the holders of a majority of the voting power of such securities that are not owned by the related person unless approved by a majority of continuing directors or certain other exceptions; our stockholders may not act by written consent; our Board may issue, without stockholder approval, shares of undesignated preferred stock, the terms of which may be determined by the Board; and we are also subject to certain restrictions on business combinations under Section 203 of the DGCL, which imposes additional requirements for business combinations, and may prevent our stockholders from receiving the benefit from any premium to the market price of our common stock offered by a bidder in a takeover context. Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 30 PART I

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion and analysis of Leidos Holdings, Inc.'s ("Leidos") financial condition, results of operations and quantitative and qualitative disclosures about business environment and trends and market risk should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Some of the information contained in this discussion and analysis or set forth elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including information with respect to our plans and strategy for our business, includes forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including those described under the heading “Forward-Looking Statements.” You should also review the disclosure under Part I, Item 1A, “Risk Factors” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from the results described in or implied by the forward-looking statements contained in the following discussion and analysis. Unless indicated otherwise, references in this report to “we,” “us” and “our” refer collectively to Leidos and its consolidated subsidiaries. In this section, we discuss our financial condition, changes in financial condition and results of our operations for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the year ended January 1, 2021. For a discussion and analysis comparing our results for the year ended January 1, 2021 to the year ended January 3, 2020, see our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended January 1, 2021, filed with the SEC on February 23, 2021, under Part II, Item 7 “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.” Overview We are a FORTUNE 500 ® technology, engineering, and science company that provides services and solutions in the defense, intelligence, civil and health markets, both domestically and internationally. We bring domain-specific capabilities and innovations to customers in each of these markets by leveraging five technical capabilities: digital modernization, cyber operations, mission software systems, integrated systems and mission operations. Our customers include the U.S. Department of Defense ("DoD"), the U.S. Intelligence Community, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, the Federal Aviation Administration, the Department of Veterans Affairs and many other U.S. civilian, state and local government agencies, foreign government agencies and commercial businesses. Less than 8% of our revenues and tangible long-lived assets are generated by or owned by entities located outside of the United States. We operate in three reportable segments: Defense Solutions, Civil and Health. Additionally, we separately present the unallocable costs associated with corporate functions as Corporate. Effective July 3, 2021, certain contracts were reassigned from the Defense Solutions reportable segment to the Civil reportable segment. Impact on prior year segment results were determined to be immaterial and have not been recast to reflect this change. For additional information regarding our reportable segments, see “Business” in Part I and "Note 20—Business Segments" of the notes to the consolidated financial statements contained within this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our significant initiatives include the following: • achieving annual revenue growth through internal collaboration and better leveraging of key differentiators across our company and the deployment of resources and investments into higher growth markets; • increasing headcount and internal direct labor content on our contract portfolio; • continued improvement in our back office infrastructure and related business processes for greater effectiveness and efficiency across all business functions; and • disciplined deployment of our cash resources and use of our capital structure to enhance shareholder value while retaining an appropriate amount of financial leverage. Sales Trend. For fiscal 2021, revenues increased $1.4 billion, or 12%, compared to fiscal 2020, primarily due to program wins and a net increase in volumes on certain programs, partially offset with the completion of certain contracts. In addition, revenue had a positive impact from business acquisitions in the Defense Solutions segment and a reduction of the negative impacts from COVID-19 experienced during the prior year. Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 36 PART II Operating Expenses and Income Trend. For fiscal 2021, operating expenses increased by $1.3 billion, or 11%, compared to fiscal 2020. Operating margin for fiscal 2021 was 8.4% compared to 8.1% for fiscal 2020. Operating income was $1,152 million, a $154 million increase compared to fiscal 2020. The increase in operating income was primarily attributable to a net increase in volumes on certain programs, a reduction of the negative impacts from COVID-19 experienced during the prior year and program wins, partially offset by the completion of certain contracts. From a macroeconomic perspective, our industry is under general competitive pressures associated with spending from our largest customer, the U.S. government, and requires a high level of cost management focus to allow us to remain competitive. Although the U.S. Presidential Administration has not indicated a desire to reduce spending in the defense and homeland security sectors, the likelihood, extent and duration of current spending levels in these areas remains unclear. We continue to review our cost structure against our anticipated sales and undertake cost management actions and efficiency initiatives where necessary. COVID-19 The COVID-19 pandemic is affecting major economic and financial markets, and effectively all industries and governments are facing challenges, which has resulted in a period of business disruption, the length and severity of which cannot be predicted. The pandemic has resulted in travel restrictions, government orders to “shelter-in-place”, quarantine restrictions and disruption of the financial markets. We have acted to protect the health and safety of our employees, comply with workplace health and safety regulations and work with our customers to minimize disruptions. For fiscal 2021, while we continue to navigate impacts associated with COVID-19, primarily relating to supply chain matters, we believe that COVID-19 did not have a material impact to revenues and operating income as compared to prior year results. The full extent of the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our operational and financial performance, including our ability to execute on programs in the expected timeframe, will depend on future developments, including the duration and spread of the pandemic and the distribution of vaccines, all of which are uncertain and cannot be predicted. Section 3610 of the CARES Act, a $2 trillion coronavirus response bill providing widespread emergency relief, authorized the government to reimburse qualifying contractors for the cost of certain impacts of COVID-19. While a portion of the recoveries that we have made are a result of Section 3610 of the CARES Act, the Act expired on September 30, 2021. On September 9, 2021, President Biden issued a series of executive orders to combat COVID-19, one of which requires us, as a federal contractor, to have our employees fully vaccinated unless the employee is legally entitled to a religious or medical exemption. This vaccine mandate is currently under a nationwide injunction, while courts adjudicate constitutional challenges to the executive order. We are prepared to comply with the executive order in the event the injunction is lifted. Business Environment and Trends U.S. Government Markets In fiscal 2021, we generated approximately 87% of our total revenues from contracts with the U.S. government, either as a prime contractor or a subcontractor to other contractors engaged in work for the U.S. government. Revenues under contracts with the DoD and U.S. Intelligence Community, including subcontracts under which the DoD or the U.S. Intelligence Community is the ultimate purchaser, represented approximately 44% of our total revenues for fiscal 2021. Accordingly, our business performance is affected by the overall level of U.S. government spending, especially national security, homeland security and intelligence spending, and the alignment of our service and product offerings and capabilities with current and future budget priorities of the U.S. government. Congress received the GFY 2022 President’s Budget Request on May 28, 2021 and passed a Continuing Resolution ("CR") before the GFY deadline of September 30, 2021. The CR fully funded the federal government at current levels through December 3, 2021 and provides $28.6 billion in disaster relief and $6.3 billion to support Afghanistan evacuees. On December 2, 2021, Congress passed a second continuing resolution to fund the federal government at GFY 2021 levels until February 18, 2022. The Senate plans to vote on a House-passed continuing resolution the week of February 14, 2022, that would extend government funding through March 11, 2022. Congressional negotiations continue on defense and non-defense spending levels and controversial policy riders in the GFY 2022 appropriations bills. President Biden is expected to release the GFY 2023 President’s Budget Request this spring. Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 37 PART II Trends in the U.S. government contracting process, including a shift towards multiple-awards contracts, in which certain contractors are preapproved using IDIQ and U.S. General Services Administration ("GSA") contract vehicles, have increased competition for U.S. government contracts, reduced backlogs by shortening periods of performance on contracts and increased pricing pressure. We expect that a majority of the business that we seek in the foreseeable future will be awarded through a competitive bidding process. For more information on these risks and uncertainties, see “Risk Factors” in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. International Markets Sales to customers in international markets represented approximately 8% of total revenues for fiscal 2021. Our international customers include foreign governments and their agencies. Our international business increases our exposure to international markets and the associated international regulatory, foreign currency exchange rate and geopolitical risks. Changes in international trade policies, including higher tariffs on imported goods and materials, may increase our procurement costs of certain IT hardware used both on our contracts and for internal use. However, we expect to recover certain portions of these higher tariffs through our cost-plus contracts. While we evaluate the impact of higher tariffs, currently, we do not expect tariffs to have a significant impact to our business. Key Performance Measures The primary financial performance measures we use to manage our business and monitor results of operations are revenue, operating income, cash flows from operations and diluted earnings per share. Bookings and backlog are also useful measures for management and investors to evaluate our performance and potential future revenues. In addition, we consider business performance by contract type to be useful to management and investors when evaluating our operating income and margin performance. Results of Operations Our results of operations for the periods presented were as follows: NM - Not meaningful Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 38 PART II Segment and Corporate Results The increase in revenues for fiscal 2021 as compared to fiscal 2020 was primarily attributable to program wins, a net increase in volumes on certain programs, $149 million of revenues from new business acquisitions and a reduction of the negative impacts from COVID-19 experienced during the prior year. The increase was partially offset by the completion of certain contracts and contracts that were reassigned from the Defense Solutions reportable segment to the Civil reportable segment during the third quarter. In addition, in fiscal 2021, there was a $67 million benefit in exchange rate movements. The increase in operating income for fiscal 2021 as compared to fiscal 2020 was primarily attributable to program wins, a net increase in program volumes on certain contracts, $18 million of operating income from new business acquisitions and a reduction of the negative impacts from COVID-19 experienced during the prior year, partially offset by the completion of certain contracts and an increase in amortization expense. The increase in revenues for fiscal 2021 as compared to fiscal 2020 was primarily attributable to a net increase of $48 million of revenues related to L3 Harris Technologies' security and detection businesses (the "SD&A Businesses") acquired in the prior year, a net increase in program volumes, program wins and a reduction of the negative impacts from COVID-19 experienced during the prior year. The revenue growth was also attributable to certain contracts that were reassigned from the Defense Solutions reportable segment to the Civil reportable segment during the third quarter. The decrease in operating income for fiscal 2021 as compared to fiscal 2020 was primarily attributable to a net decrease in volumes on certain products and product deliveries, partially offset by a $26 million benefit from an adjustment to legal reserves related to the Mission Support Alliance joint venture during the first quarter of fiscal 2021. The increase in revenues for fiscal 2021 as compared to fiscal 2020 was primarily attributable to a net increase in volumes on certain programs, including a reduction of the negative impacts from COVID-19 experienced during the prior year and program wins, partially offset by the completion of certain contracts. The increase in operating income for fiscal 2021 as compared to fiscal 2020 was primarily attributable to a net increase in volumes on higher margin programs, including a reduction of the negative impacts from COVID-19 experienced during the prior year, program wins and a net decrease in asset impairment charges. Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 39 PART II NM - Not Meaningful The increase in operating loss for fiscal 2021 as compared to fiscal 2020 was primarily attributable to an $81 million net gain recognized during the second quarter of fiscal 2020 upon receipt of proceeds related to the VirnetX, Inc. legal matter and higher indirect expenses, partially offset by a decrease in acquisition, integration and restructuring costs. Equity earnings of non-consolidated subsidiaries We have certain non-controlling ownership interests in equity method investments. For fiscal 2021 we recorded earnings of $20 million from our equity method investments. For fiscal 2020 we recorded $16 million, partially offset by amortization of $2 million. Non-Operating Expense, Net Non-operating expense, net decreased $32 million for fiscal 2021 as compared to fiscal 2020, primarily due to $36 million of debt discount and deferred financing costs written off related to refinancing activities in the prior year, partially offset by higher interest expenses. Provision for Income Taxes Our effective tax rate was 21.5%, and 19.5% in fiscal 2021 and 2020, respectively. The effective tax rate for fiscal 2021 was favorably impacted primarily by federal research tax credits and excess tax benefits related to employee stock-based payment transactions. The effective tax rate for fiscal 2020 was favorably impacted primarily by federal research tax credits and excess tax benefits related to employee stock-based payment transactions, partially offset by taxes related to foreign operations. Beginning in 2022, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 eliminates the option to currently deduct research and development costs for tax purposes and requires taxpayers to capitalize and amortize research costs over five years. Although it is possible that Congress may defer, modify, or repeal this provision, potentially with retroactive effect, we have no assurance that Congress will take any action with respect to this provision. If the 2022 effective date remains in place, based on the law as currently enacted, our initial assessment is that our cash from operations will decrease by approximately $150 million in fiscal 2022 and our net deferred tax assets will increase by a similar amount. The actual impact on fiscal 2022 cash from operations will depend on the amount of research and development costs the Company will incur, on whether Congress modifies or repeals this provision and on whether new guidance and interpretive rules are issued by the US Treasury, among other factors. Non-controlling Interest We have an 88% controlling interest in Mission Support Alliance, LLC ("MSA"), a joint venture with Centerra Group, LLC, which includes 41% purchased from Jacobs Group, LLC on January 26, 2018. MSA’s contract ended on January 24, 2021. We also have a 53% controlling interest in Hanford Mission Integration Solutions, LLC ("HMIS"), the legal entity for the follow-on contract to MSA's contract and a joint venture with Centerra Group, LLC and Parsons Government Services, Inc. We include the financial results for MSA and HMIS in our consolidated financial statements. Net income attributable to non-controlling interest was $6 million and $1 million for fiscal 2021 and 2020, respectively. Bookings and Backlog We had net bookings of $15.5 billion and $17.8 billion during fiscal 2021 and 2020, respectively. Net bookings represent the estimated amount of revenue to be earned in the future from funded and unfunded contract awards that were received during the year, net of any adjustments to previously awarded backlog amounts. We calculate net bookings as the year’s ending backlog, plus the year’s revenues, less the prior year’s ending backlog and any impacts from foreign currency or acquisitions and divestitures. Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 40 PART II Backlog represents the estimated amount of future revenues to be recognized under negotiated contracts. We segregate our backlog into two categories as follows: • Funded Backlog. Funded backlog for contracts with the U.S. government represents the value on contracts for which funding is appropriated less revenues previously recognized on these contracts. Funded backlog for contracts with non-U.S. government entities and commercial customers represents the estimated value on contracts, which may cover multiple future years, under which we are obligated to perform, less revenues previously recognized on the contracts. • Negotiated Unfunded Backlog. Negotiated unfunded backlog represents estimated amounts of revenue to be earned in the future from contracts for which funding has not been appropriated and unexercised priced contract options. Negotiated unfunded backlog does not include unexercised option periods and future potential task orders expected to be awarded under IDIQ, GSA Schedule or other master agreement contract vehicles, with the exception of certain IDIQ contracts where task orders are not competitively awarded and separately priced but instead are used as a funding mechanism, and where there is a basis for estimating future revenues and funding on future anticipated task orders. The estimated value of our total backlog for the periods presented was as follows: The increase in backlog includes $800 million of backlog acquired in fiscal 2021 through business combinations in our Defense Solutions reportable segment. Total backlog included an unfavorable impact of $52 million at December 31, 2021, and favorable impact of $119 million at January 1, 2021, primarily due to the movements in the British pound and Australian dollar when compared to the U.S dollar. Bookings and backlog fluctuate from period to period depending on our success rate in winning contracts and the timing of contract awards, renewals, modifications and cancellations, as well as foreign currency movements. Contract awards may be negatively impacted by ongoing industry-wide delays in procurement decisions and budget cuts by the U.S. government as discussed in “Business Environment and Trends” in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We expect to recognize a substantial portion of our funded backlog as revenues within the next 12 months. However, the U.S. government may cancel any contract at any time through a termination for the convenience of the U.S. government. In addition, certain contracts with commercial or non-U.S. government customers may include provisions that allow the customer to cancel at any time. Most of our contracts have cancellation terms that would permit us to recover all or a portion of our incurred costs and fees for work performed. Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 41 PART II Contract Types Our earnings and profitability may vary materially depending on changes in the proportionate amount of revenues derived from each type of contract. For a discussion of the types of contracts under which we generate revenues, see “Business—Contract Types” in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Revenues by contract type as a percentage of our total revenues for the periods presented were as follows: Liquidity and Capital Resources Overview of Liquidity As of December 31, 2021, we had $727 million in cash and cash equivalents. Additionally, we have an unsecured revolving credit facility which can provide up to $750 million in additional borrowing, if required. During fiscal 2021 and 2020, there were no borrowings outstanding under the credit facilities and we were in compliance with the related financial covenants. At December 31, 2021 and January 1, 2021, we had outstanding debt of $5.1 billion and $4.7 billion, respectively. On May 7, 2021, we entered into a Credit Agreement which provided for a senior unsecured term loan facility in an aggregate principal amount of $380 million. Additionally, on July 12, 2021, Leidos, Inc. established a commercial paper program in which we may issue short-term unsecured commercial paper notes not to exceed $750 million and have maturities of up to 397 days from the date of issuance (see "Note 13—Debt"). As of December 31, 2021, we did not have any Commercial Paper Notes outstanding. We made principal payments on our long-term debt of $106 million, $731 million, and $80 million during fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. This activity included required principal payments on our term loans of $96 million, $72 million and $69 million during fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. During fiscal year 2020, we made $4,925 million of principal repayments for outstanding debt and retired the $450 million senior notes.The notes outstanding as of December 31, 2021, contain financial covenants and customary restrictive covenants. We were in compliance with all covenants as of December 31, 2021. Interest on our Credit Facilities and 2021 Credit Agreement are calculated based on the London Interbank Offered Rate (“LIBOR”). On July 27, 2017, the U.K.’s Financial Conduct Authority announced that LIBOR would be discontinued or become unavailable as a reference rate by the end of 2021 and LIBOR will be fully discontinued or become unavailable as a benchmark rate by June 2023. Although our Credit Facilities and the 2021 Credit Agreement include mechanics to facilitate the adoption by us and our lenders of an alternative benchmark rate for use in place of LIBOR, no assurance can be made that such alternative benchmark rate will perform in a manner similar to LIBOR or result in interest rates that are at least as favorable to us as those that would have resulted had LIBOR remained in effect, which could result in an increase in our interest expense and other debt service obligations. In addition, the overall credit market may be disrupted as a result of the replacement of LIBOR or in the anticipation thereof, which could have an adverse impact on our ability to refinance, reprice, or amend our existing indebtedness or incur additional indebtedness on favorable terms. We paid dividends of $199 million, $196 million and $198 million for fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. During the first and second quarter of fiscal 2021, we sold $693 million of accounts receivable under accounts receivable purchase agreements and received proceeds of $693 million (see "Note 6—Receivables"). There were no sales of accounts receivable in the second half of fiscal 2021. Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 42 PART II We may from time to time seek to retire or purchase our outstanding debt through cash purchases in the open market, privately negotiated transactions or otherwise. Such repurchases, if any, will depend on prevailing market conditions, our liquidity requirements, contractual restrictions and other factors. The amounts involved may be material. Stock repurchases of Leidos common stock may be made on the open market or in privately negotiated transactions with third parties including through accelerated share repurchase ("ASR") agreements. Whether repurchases are made and the timing and actual number of shares repurchased depends on a variety of factors including price, corporate capital requirements, other market conditions and regulatory requirements. The repurchase program may be accelerated, suspended, delayed or discontinued at any time. During fiscal 2021, 2020 and 2019, we made open market repurchases of our common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $237 million, $67 million and $25 million, respectively. Additionally, during fiscal 2019, we entered into ASR agreements with financial institutions, whereby we paid an aggregate of $400 million and received approximately 5.6 million shares of Leidos outstanding shares (see "Note 16—Earnings Per Share" of the notes to the consolidated financial statements contained within this Annual Report on Form 10-K). The purchases were recorded to "Additional paid-in capital" in the consolidated balance sheets. All shares delivered were immediately retired. Beginning in 2022, a provision in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (“TCJA”) which eliminates the option to currently deduct research and development costs for tax purposes and requires taxpayers to capitalize and amortize the costs over five years becomes effective. Congress may defer, modify or repeal the provision, but the ultimate outcome is uncertain. The uncertainty surrounding the TCJA provision and the potential for COVID-19 to affect the financial markets may impact our liquidity. If the 2022 effective date of the TCJA research cost capitalization provision remains in place, our initial assessment indicates we will have a negative impact to cash of approximately $150 million in fiscal 2022 and our net deferred tax assets will increase by a similar amount. We will continue to assess our liquidity needs as the tax legislation and pandemic evolve. For the next 12 months, we anticipate that we will be able to meet our liquidity needs, including servicing our debt, through cash generated from operations, available cash balances, sales of accounts receivable and, if needed, borrowings from our revolving credit facility and commercial paper program. Summary of Cash Flows The following table summarizes cash flow information for the periods presented: Net cash provided by operating activities decreased $303 million for fiscal 2021 as compared to fiscal 2020. The decrease was primarily due to the timing of customer advance payments, $62 million of deferral for employer payroll tax payments in the prior year and the receipt of $85 million of proceeds related to the VirnetX legal matter in the prior year, partially offset with improved collections on trade accounts receivable. Net cash used in investing activities decreased $2,085 million for fiscal 2021 as compared to fiscal 2020. The decrease was primarily due to larger acquisitions made in the prior year for Dynetics and the SD&A Businesses compared to our current year acquisitions (see "Note 5–Acquisitions and Divestitures") and lower capital expenditures in the current year. Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 43 PART II Net cash used in financing activities increased $1,564 million for fiscal 2021 as compared to fiscal 2020. The increase was primarily due to a decrease of approximately $1,444 million from the net change of proceeds received from the issuance of debt, principal payments and payments for debt issuance costs, an increase of $170 million of open market stock repurchases, partially offset by a net $34 million increase in capital contributions received from our non-controlling interest. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We have outstanding performance guarantees and cross-indemnity agreements in connection with certain aspects of our business. We also have letters of credit outstanding principally related to performance guarantees on contracts and surety bonds outstanding principally related to performance and subcontractor payment bonds as described in "Note 21—Commitments and Contingencies" of the notes to the consolidated financial statements contained within this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These arrangements have not had, and management does not believe it is likely that they will in the future have, a material effect on our liquidity, capital resources, operations or financial condition. Contractual Obligations The following table summarizes our obligations to make future payments pursuant to certain contracts or arrangements as of December 31, 2021: The table above excludes purchase orders for services or products to be delivered pursuant to U.S. government contracts for which we are entitled to full recourse under normal contract termination clauses. Interest payments relate to our outstanding debt and finance leases. The total interest payments on our outstanding term loan debt are calculated based on the stated variable rates of the notes as of December 31, 2021. For more information on the Company’s debt and interest payments, see "Note 13—Debt " of the notes to the consolidated financial statements contained within this Annual Report on Form 10-K. For more information on our finance and operating lease commitments, see "Note 10—Leases" of the notes to the consolidated financial statements contained within this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Other long-term liabilities include liabilities under deferred compensation arrangements and purchase obligations for long-term purchases and service agreements. There is no obligation included for our foreign defined benefit pension plan, as the plan is overfunded as of December 31, 2021. For a discussion of potential changes in these pension obligations, see "Note 19—Retirement Plans" of the notes to the consolidated financial statements contained within this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 44 PART II Guarantors and Issuers of Guaranteed Securities Leidos Holdings, Inc. has fully and unconditionally guaranteed the obligations of its subsidiary, Leidos, Inc., under its $500 million notes due May 2023, $500 million notes due May 2025, $750 million due May 2030 and $1,000 million notes due February 2031 (collectively, "the Notes"). The underlying subsidiaries of Leidos, Inc. do not guarantee these obligations and have been excluded from the financial information presented below. We have entered into registration rights agreements, pursuant to which we agreed to use reasonable best efforts to file registration statements to permit the exchange of the Notes and related guarantees for registered notes having terms substantially identical thereto, or in the alternative, the registered resale of the Notes and related guarantees under certain circumstances. Pursuant to these registration rights agreements, we filed a Registration Statement on Form S-4 with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 6, 2021, which was declared effective on May 19, 2021. Summarized financial information for Leidos and Leidos Inc., net of eliminations, for the year ended December 31, 2021 was as follows (in millions): Balance Sheet Income Statement Commitments and Contingencies We are subject to a number of reviews, investigations, claims, lawsuits, other uncertainties and future obligations related to our business. For a discussion of these items, see "Note 10—Leases" and "Note 21—Commitments and Contingencies" of the notes to the consolidated financial statements contained within this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 45 PART II Critical Accounting Policies Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("GAAP"). The preparation of these financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingencies at the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. Management evaluates these estimates and assumptions on an ongoing basis. Our estimates and assumptions have been prepared by management on the basis of the most current and best available information. The results of these estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results could differ from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions. We have identified the following accounting policies as critical because they require significant judgments and assumptions about highly complex and inherently uncertain matters and the use of reasonably different estimates and assumptions could have a material impact on our results of operations or financial condition. • Revenue Recognition • Goodwill and Intangible Assets Revenue Recognition We perform under various types of contracts, which include firm-fixed-price ("FFP"), time-and-materials ("T&M"), fixed-price-level-of-effort ("FP-LOE"), cost-plus-fixed-fee ("CPFF"), cost-plus-award-fee, cost-plus-incentive-fee and fixed-price-incentive-fee contracts. To determine the proper revenue recognition, we first evaluate whether we have a duly approved and enforceable contract with a customer, in which the rights of the parties and payment terms are identified, and collectability is probable. We also evaluate whether two or more contracts should be combined and accounted for as a single contract, including the task orders issued under an IDIQ award. In addition, we assess contract modifications to determine whether changes to existing contracts should be accounted for as part of the original contract or as a separate contract. If contract modifications add distinct goods or services and increase the contract value by an amount that reflects the standalone selling price, those modifications are accounted for as separate contracts. In cases where our contracts contain multiple promises, we assess if the multiple promises should be accounted for as separate performance obligations or combined into a single performance obligation. We generally separate multiple promises in a contract as separate performance obligations if those promises are distinct, both individually and in the context of the contract. If multiple promises in a contract are highly interrelated or require significant integration or customization within a group, they are combined and accounted for as a single performance obligation. Our contracts with the U.S. government often contain options to renew existing contracts for an additional period of time (generally a year at a time) under the same terms and conditions as the original contract, and generally do not provide the customer any material rights under the contract. We account for renewal options as separate contracts when they include distinct goods or services at standalone selling prices. Contracts with the U.S. government are subject to the FAR and priced on estimated or actual costs of providing the goods or services. The FAR provides guidance on types of costs that are allowable in establishing prices for goods and services provided to the U.S. government and its agencies. Each contract is competitively priced and bid separately. Pricing for non-U.S. government agencies and commercial customers is based on specific negotiations with each customer. In circumstances where the standalone selling price is not directly observable, we estimate the standalone selling price using the expected cost-plus margin approach. Any taxes collected or imposed when determining the transaction price are excluded. Certain cost-plus and fixed-price contracts contain award fees, incentive fees or other provisions that may either increase or decrease the transaction price. These variable amounts generally are awarded upon achievement of certain performance metrics, program milestones or cost targets and can be based upon customer discretion. We estimate variable consideration at the most probable amount that we expect to be entitled to, based on the assessment of the contractual variable fee criteria, complexity of work and related risks, extent of customer discretion, amount of variable consideration received historically and the potential of significant reversal of revenue. Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 46 PART II We allocate the transaction price of a contract to its performance obligations in the proportion of its respective standalone selling prices. The standalone selling price of the performance obligations is generally based on an expected cost-plus margin approach, in accordance with the FAR. For certain product sales, prices from other standalone sales are used. We recognize revenue on our service-based contracts primarily over time as there is continuous transfer of control to the customer over the duration of the contract as the promised services are performed. For U.S. government contracts, continuous transfer of control to the customer is evidenced by clauses in the contract that allow the customer to unilaterally terminate the contract for convenience, pay for costs incurred plus a reasonable profit and take control of any work-in-process. Similarly, for non-U.S. government contracts, the customer typically controls the work-in-process as evidenced by rights to payment for work performed to date plus a reasonable profit to deliver products or services for which we do not have an alternate use. Anticipated losses on service-based contracts are recognized when incurred (generally on a straight-line basis) over the contract term. In certain product sales, where the products have an alternate use, revenue is recognized at a point in time when the customer takes control of the asset usually denoted by possession, transfer of legal title and acceptance by the customer. On FFP contracts requiring system integration and cost-plus contracts with variable consideration, revenue is recognized over time generally using a method that measures the extent of progress towards completion of a performance obligation, principally using a cost-input method (referred to as the cost-to-cost method). Under the cost-to-cost method, revenue is recognized based on the proportion of total costs incurred to estimated total costs-at-completion ("EAC"). A performance obligation's EAC includes all direct costs such as materials, labor, subcontract costs, overhead and a ratable portion of general and administrative costs. In addition, an EAC of a performance obligation includes future losses estimated to be incurred on onerous contracts, as and when known. On certain other contracts, principally T&M, FP-LOE and CPFF, revenue is recognized using the right-to-invoice practical expedient as we are contractually able to invoice the customer based on the control transferred to the customer. Additionally, on maintenance (generally FFP) performance obligations, revenue is recognized over time using a straight-line method as the control of the services is provided to the customer evenly over the period of performance. For certain performance obligations where we are not primarily responsible for fulfilling the promise to provide the goods or service to the customer, do not have inventory risk and do not have discretion in establishing the price for the goods or service, we recognize revenue on a net basis. Goodwill and Intangible Assets Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of consideration transferred, plus the fair value of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree, over the fair value of the net assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the acquisition date. We recognize purchased intangible assets in connection with our business acquisitions at fair value on the acquisition date. Goodwill and intangible assets, net collectively represent 60% of our total assets as of December 31, 2021 and January 1, 2021. Goodwill is not amortized, but instead is tested annually for impairment at the reporting unit level and tested more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Our policy is to perform our annual goodwill impairment evaluation as of the first day of the fourth quarter of our fiscal year using either a qualitative or quantitative approach. During both fiscal 2021 and 2020, we had seven reporting units. In our qualitative assessment, we determine whether it is more likely than not that an impairment exists based on qualitative factors. Qualitative factors include macroeconomic, industry and market considerations, overall financial performance, industry, legal and other relevant events and factors affecting the reporting unit. Leidos Holdings, Inc. Annual Report - 47 PART II Additionally, as part of this assessment, we may perform a quantitative analysis to support the qualitative factors above by applying sensitivities to assumptions and inputs used in measuring a reporting unit’s fair value. If the qualitative assessment indicates that it is more likely than not that an impairment exists, then a quantitative assessment is performed. We use discounted cash flow analyses and market multiple analyses in order to estimate reporting unit fair values. Discounted cash flow analyses rely on significant judgement and assumptions about expected future cash flows, weighted-average cost of capital, discount rates, expected long-term growth rates and operating margins. These assumptions are based on estimates of future sales and earnings after considering such factors as general market conditions, customer budgets, existing firm and future orders, changes in working capital, long term business plans and recent operating performance. Market multiple analyses incorporate significant judgments and assumptions related to the selection of guideline public companies, our forecast earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (“EBITDA”), forecast EBITDA of guideline public companies and control premium estimates. A significant change to these estimates and assumptions could cause the estimated fair values of our reporting units and intangible assets to decline and increase the risk of an impairment charge to earnings. Intangible assets with finite lives are assessed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. We performed our annual test for impairment as of October 2, 2021, which resulted in no impairments being identified. However, through this analysis we determined that our Security Products reporting unit within the Civil reportable segment, which holds goodwill in the amount of $926 million as of December 31, 2021, was at risk of future impairment. The estimated fair value of the Security Products reporting unit exceeded the carrying value by approximately 6%. Operations of the reporting unit rely heavily on the sales and servicing of security and detection products, which have been negatively impacted by COVID-19. The forecasts utilized to estimate the fair value of the Security Products reporting unit assume a gradual improvement in the global aviation security product and related service sales, reaching pre-COVID-19 levels by fiscal 2025. In the event that there are significant unfavorable changes to the forecasted cash flows of the reporting unit (including if the impact of COVID-19 on passenger travel levels is more prolonged or severe than what is incorporated into our forecast), terminal growth rates or the cost of capital used in the fair value estimates, we may be required to record a material impairment of goodwill at a future date. Intangible assets with indefinite lives are not amortized but are assessed for impairment at the beginning of the fourth quarter and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. Each quarter, we evaluate impairment indicators to determine whether there is a triggering event warranting a goodwill and intangible asset impairment analysis. Recently Adopted and Issued Accounting Pronouncements For a discussion of these items, see "Note 2—Accounting Standards" of the notes to the consolidated financial statements contained within this Annual Report on Form 10-K.