********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Forward-Looking Statements This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Exchange Act that are based on information currently available to management as well as management’s assumptions and beliefs as of the date hereof. All statements, other than statements of historical fact, included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the words “may,” “will,” “should,” “plan,” “predict,” “anticipate,” “believe,” “intend,” “estimate” and “expect” and similar expressions. Statements that are not historical should also be considered forward-looking statements. Such statements reflect our current views with respect to future events. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements. We believe these statements are based on reasonable assumptions; however, such statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to the specific uncertainties discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and the risk factors set forth in Item 1A. Risk Factors in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. These risks and uncertainties may affect our performance and results of operations. Should one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results may differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. We disclaim any intention or obligation to update or review any forward-looking statements or information, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise unless required by law. Risk Factors The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. We believe these are the principal material risks currently facing our business; however, additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we presently deem less significant may also impair our business operations. If any of the following risks or those disclosed in our other SEC filings occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. Business and Operational Risks We May Not be Able to Compete Favorably in the Competitive HVACR Business. Substantially all of the markets in which we operate are competitive. The most significant competitive factors we face are product reliability, product performance, reputation of our company and brands, service and price and global supply chain constraints resulting from the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, with the relative importance of these factors varying among our product lines. Other factors that affect competition in the HVACR market include the development and application of new technologies, an increasing emphasis on the development of more efficient HVACR products and new product introductions. We may not be able to adapt to market changes as quickly or effectively as our current and future competitors. Also, the establishment of manufacturing operations in low-cost countries could provide cost advantages to existing and emerging competitors. Some of our competitors may have greater financial resources than we have, allowing them to invest in more extensive research and development and/or marketing activity and making them better able to withstand adverse HVACR market conditions. Current and future competitive pressures may cause us to reduce our prices or lose market share, or could negatively affect our cash flow, all of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. If We Cannot Successfully Execute our Business Strategy, Our Results of Operations Could be Adversely Impacted. Our future success depends on our continued investment in research and new product development as well as our ability to commercialize new HVACR technological advances in domestic and global markets. If we are unable to continue to timely and successfully develop and market new products, achieve technological advances, or extend our business model and technological advances into international markets, our business and results of operations could be adversely impacted. We are engaged in various manufacturing rationalization actions designed to achieve our strategic priorities of manufacturing, sourcing, and distribution excellence and of lowering our cost structure. For example, we are continuing to reorganize our North American distribution network in order to better serve our customers’ needs by deploying parts and equipment inventory closer to them and are expanding our sourcing activities outside of the U.S.  In such case, our results of operations and profitability may be negatively impacted, making us less competitive and potentially causing us to lose market share. 9 Our Ability to Meet Customer Demand may be Limited by Our Single-Location Production Facilities, Reliance on Certain Key Suppliers and Unanticipated Significant Shifts in Customer Demand. We manufacture many of our products at single-location production facilities. In certain instances, we heavily rely on suppliers who also may concentrate production in single locations or source unique, necessary products from only one supplier. Any significant interruptions in production at one or more of our facilities, or at a facility of one of our key suppliers, could negatively impact our ability to deliver our products to our customers. We experienced such an event in July 2018, when our manufacturing facility in Marshalltown, Iowa was severely damaged by a tornado, and we continue to experience disruptions in supply due to COVID-19. Further, even with all of our facilities running at full production, we could potentially be unable to fully meet demand during an unanticipated period of exceptionally high demand. Our inability to meet our customers’ demand for our products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Our Results of Operations May Suffer if We Cannot Continue to License or Enforce the Intellectual Property Rights on Which Our Businesses Depend or if Third Parties Assert That We Violate Their Intellectual Property Rights. We rely upon patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws and agreements to establish and maintain intellectual property rights in the products we sell. Our intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated, infringed, circumvented, or be insufficient to permit us to take advantage of current market trends or to otherwise provide competitive advantages. Further, the laws of certain countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. Third parties may also claim that we are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. If we do not license infringed intellectual property or if we are required to substitute similar technology from another source, our operations could be adversely affected. Even if we believe that intellectual property claims are without merit, they can be time consuming, require significant resources and be costly to defend. Claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to redesign affected products, pay costly damage awards, or face injunction prohibiting us from manufacturing, importing, marketing, or selling certain of our products. Even if we have agreements to indemnify us, indemnifying parties may be unable or unwilling to do so. Our Operations Can Be Adversely Affected By Our Ability to Attract, Motivate, Develop, and Retain Our Employees, Labor Shortages and Work Stoppages, Turnover, Labor Cost Increases and Other Labor Relations Problems. We are committed to attracting, motivating, developing, and retaining our employees to ensure we remain an employer of choice.  Despite our efforts, we have experienced, and could continue to experience, higher employee turnover and absenteeism, particularly in manufacturing and distribution locations, as a result of COVID-19 related concerns and other factors.  A number of factors may adversely affect the labor force available or increase labor costs, including high employment levels, related competition, and federal unemployment subsidies, such as unemployment benefits offered in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. These concerns have decreased the pool of available qualified talent for certain functions.  In addition, as of December 31, 2021, approximately 24% of our workforce, including international locations, was unionized. Our Marshalltown, Iowa-based union ratified a five-year labor agreement on November 1, 2021; however, the results of future negotiations with unions are uncertain.  If we are unsuccessful in meeting these challenges, our results of operations could be materially impacted. Volatility in Capital Markets Could Necessitate Increased Cash Contributions by Us to Our Pension Plans to Maintain Required Levels of Funding. Volatility in the capital markets may have a significant impact on the funding status of our defined benefit pension plans. If the performance of the capital markets depresses the value of our defined benefit pension plan assets or increases the liabilities, we would be required to make additional contributions to the pension plans. The amount of contributions we may be required to make to our pension plans in the future is uncertain and could be significant, which may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. Industry Risks Our Financial Performance Is Affected by the Conditions and Performance of the U.S. Construction Industry. 10 Our business is affected by the performance of the U.S. construction industry. Our sales in the residential and commercial new construction markets correlate to the number of new homes and buildings that are built, which in turn is influenced by cyclical factors such as interest rates, inflation, availability of financing, consumer spending habits and confidence, employment rates and other macroeconomic factors over which we have no control. Our sales may not improve, or improvement may be limited or lower than expected. Cooler than Normal Summers and Warmer than Normal Winters May Depress Our Sales. Demand for our products and for our services is seasonal and strongly affected by the weather. Cooler than normal summers depress our sales of replacement air conditioning and refrigeration products and services. Similarly, warmer than normal winters have the same effect on our heating products and services.  The effects of climate change, such as extreme weather conditions and events and water scarcity, may exacerbate fluctuations in typical weather patterns, creating financial risks to our business. Price Volatility for Commodities and Components We Purchase or Significant Supply Interruptions Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Cash Flow or Results of Operations. We depend on raw materials, such as steel, copper and aluminum, and components purchased from third parties to manufacture our products. Some of these third-party suppliers are located outside of the United States. We generally concentrate purchases for a given raw material or component with a small number of suppliers. If a supplier is unable or unwilling to meet our supply requirements, including suffering any disruptions at its facilities or in its supply chain, we could experience supply interruptions or cost increases, either of which could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. Similarly, suppliers of components that we purchase for use in our products may be affected by rising material costs and pass these increased costs on to us. Although we regularly pre-purchase a portion of our raw materials at fixed prices each year to hedge against price increases, an increase in raw materials prices not covered by our fixed price arrangements could significantly increase our cost of goods sold and negatively impact our margins if we are unable to effectively pass such price increases on to our customers. Alternatively, if we increase our prices in response to increases in the prices or quantities of raw materials or components or if we encounter significant supply interruptions, our competitive position could be adversely affected, which may result in depressed sales and profitability. The ongoing COVID-19 pandemic has resulted in increased global supply chain constraints and disruption to the operations of certain of our suppliers and we cannot predict the duration or severity of current supply-chain issues, including increased input material costs and component shortages, delivery disruptions and delays, and inflation.  Additionally, the effects of climate change, including extreme weather events, long-term changes in temperature levels, water availability, increased cost for decarbonizing process heating, supply costs impacted by increasing energy costs, or energy costs impacted by carbon prices or offsets may exacerbate supply chain constraints and disruption.  Resulting supply chain constraints have required, and may continue to require, in certain instances, alternative delivery arrangements and increased costs and could have a material adverse effect on our business and operations. In addition, we use derivatives to hedge price risk associated with forecasted purchases of certain raw materials. Our hedged prices could result in paying higher or lower prices for commodities as compared to the market prices for those commodities when purchased. Legal, Tax and Regulatory Risks Changes in Environmental and Climate-Related Legislation, Government Regulations, or Policies Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Results of Operations. The sales, gross margins, and profitability for each of our segments could be directly impacted by changes in legislation, government regulations, or policies (collectively, “LRPs”) relating to global climate change and other environmental initiatives and concerns.  These LRPs, implemented under global, national, and sub-national climate objectives or policies, can include changes in environmental and energy efficiency standards and tend to target the global warming potential of refrigerants and hydrofluorocarbons, equipment energy efficiency, and combustion of fossil fuels as a heating source.  Many of our products consume energy and use refrigerants and hydroflurocarbons.  LRPs that seek to reduce greenhouse gas emissions may require us to make increased capital expenditures to develop or market new products to meet new LRPs.  Further, our customers and the markets we serve may impose emissions or other environmental standards through LRPs or consumer preferences that may 11 require additional time, capital investment, or technological advancement. Our inability or delay in developing or marketing products that match customer demand while also meeting applicable LRPs may negatively impact our results. There continues to be a lack of consistent climate legislation and regulations, which creates economic and regulatory uncertainty.  Such regulatory uncertainty could adversely impact the demand for energy efficient buildings and could increase costs of compliance.  Additionally, the extensive and ever-changing legislation and regulations could impose increased liability for remediation costs and civil or criminal penalties in cases of non-compliance. Because these laws are subject to frequent change, we are unable to predict the future costs resulting from environmental compliance. Changes in U.S. Trade Policy, Including the Imposition of Tariffs and the Resulting Consequences, Could Have an Adverse Effect on our Results of Operations. The U.S. government has made changes in U.S. trade policy over the past several years. These changes include renegotiating and terminating certain existing bilateral or multi-lateral trade agreements, such as the North American Free Trade Agreement, and initiating tariffs on certain foreign goods from a variety of countries and regions, most notably China. These changes in U.S. trade policy have resulted in, and may continue to result in, one or more foreign governments adopting responsive trade policies that make it more difficult or costly for us to do business in or import our products or components from those countries. The sales, gross margins, and profitability for each of our segments could be directly impacted by changes in tariffs and trade agreements. We cannot predict the extent to which the U.S. or other countries will impose new or additional quotas, duties, tariffs, taxes or other similar restrictions upon the import or export of our products in the future, nor can we predict future trade policy or the terms of any renegotiated trade agreements and their impact on our business. The continuing adoption or expansion of trade restrictions, the occurrence of a trade war, or other governmental action related to tariffs or trade agreements or policies has the potential to adversely impact demand for our products, our costs, our customers, our suppliers, and the U.S. economy, which in turn could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. We May Incur Substantial Costs as a Result of Claims Which Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Results of Operations. The development, manufacture, sale and use of our products involve warranty, intellectual property infringement, and  product liability claims, and other liabilities and risks for the installation and service of our products. Our product liability insurance policies have limits that, if exceeded, may result in substantial costs that could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. In addition, warranty claims are not covered by our product liability insurance and certain product liability claims may also not be covered by our product liability insurance. For some of our HVAC products, we provide warranty terms ranging from one to 20 years to customers for certain components such as compressors or heat exchangers. For certain limited products, we provided lifetime warranties. Warranties of such extended lengths pose a risk to us as actual future costs may exceed our current estimates of those costs. Warranty expense is recorded on the date that revenue is recognized and requires significant assumptions about what costs will be incurred in the future. We may be required to record material adjustments to accruals and expense in the future if actual costs for these warranties are different from our assumptions. We are Subject to Claims, Lawsuits, and Other Litigation That Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Results of Operations. We are involved in various claims and lawsuits incidental to our business, including those involving product liability, labor relations, alleged exposure to asbestos-containing materials and environmental matters, some of which claim significant damages. Estimates related to our claims and lawsuits, including estimates for asbestos-related claims and related insurance recoveries, involve numerous uncertainties. Given the inherent uncertainty of litigation and estimates, we cannot be certain that existing claims or litigation or any future adverse legal developments will not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition. General Risk Factors The COVID-19 Pandemic Has Disrupted Our Business Operations and Results of Operations. A novel strain of coronavirus or, COVID-19, surfaced in late 2019 and has spread around the world. Since 2020, the spread of COVID-19 and the developments surrounding the global pandemic disrupted our business operations and affected our results 12 of operations. In 2021, the COVID-19 pandemic continued to create supply chain disruptions and higher employee absenteeism in our factories and distribution locations. As the COVID-19 pandemic continues, health concern risks remain. We cannot predict whether any of our manufacturing, operational, or distribution facilities will experience any future disruptions, or how long such disruptions would last. In 2021, various forms of a vaccine for COVID-19 were approved and began to be distributed. However, the large scale and challenging logistics of distributing the vaccines, as well as uncertainty over the efficacy of the vaccines against new variants of the virus, may impact the economy as well as our operations in the future. While we are experiencing positive results despite the COVID-19 pandemic, there remains uncertainty regarding how COVID-19 will impact our results in the future. The effects of the COVID-19 pandemic may continue for a significant period of time and may adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition even after the COVID-19 pandemic has subsided. The extent to which the COVID-19 pandemic impacts us will depend on numerous evolving factors and future developments that we are not able to predict, including the duration and scope of the pandemic; governmental, business, and individuals’ actions in response to the pandemic; our ability to maintain sufficient qualified personnel due to employee illness, quarantine, willingness to return to work, vaccine and/or testing mandates, face-coverings and other safety requirements, general scarcity of employees, or travel and other restrictions; current global supply chain disruptions caused by the COVID-19 pandemic; and the impact on economic activity, including financial market instability. Global General Business, Economic and Market Conditions Could Adversely Affect Our Financial Performance and Limit our Access to the Capital Markets. Future disruptions in U.S. or global financial and credit markets or increases in the costs of capital might have an adverse impact on our business. The tightening, unavailability or increased costs of credit adversely affects the ability of our customers to obtain financing for significant purchases and operations, which could result in a decrease in sales of our products and services and may impact the ability of our customers to make payments to us. Similarly, tightening of credit may adversely affect our supplier base and increase the potential for one or more of our suppliers to experience financial distress or bankruptcy. Our business may also be adversely affected by future decreases in the general level of economic activity and increases in borrowing costs, which may cause our customers to cancel, decrease or delay their purchases of our products and services. If financial markets were to deteriorate, or costs of capital were to increase significantly due to a lowering of our credit ratings, prevailing industry conditions, the volatility of the capital markets or other factors, we may be unable to obtain new financing on acceptable terms, or at all. A deterioration in our financial performance could also limit our future ability to access amounts currently available under our domestic credit facility. In addition, availability under our asset securitization agreement may be adversely impacted by credit quality and performance of our customer accounts receivable. The availability under our asset securitization agreement is based on the amount of accounts receivable that meet the eligibility criteria of the asset securitization agreement. If receivable losses increase or credit quality deteriorates, the amount of eligible receivables could decline and, in turn, lower the availability under the asset securitization. We cannot predict the likelihood, duration, or severity of any future disruption in financial markets or any adverse economic conditions in the U.S. and other countries. Our International Operations Subject Us to Risks Including Foreign Currency Fluctuations, Regulations and Other Risks. We earn revenue, pay expenses, own assets, and incur liabilities in countries using currencies other than the U.S. dollar. Our Consolidated Financial Statements are presented in U.S. dollars and we translate revenue, income, expenses, assets, and liabilities into U.S. dollars at exchange rates in effect during or at the end of each reporting period. Therefore, increases or decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies may affect our net operating revenues, operating income and the value of balance sheet items denominated in foreign currencies. Because of the geographic diversity of our operations, weaknesses in some currencies might be offset by strengths in others over time. However, we cannot assure that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, particularly the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against major currencies, would not materially affect our financial results. In addition to the currency exchange risks inherent in operating in foreign countries, our international sales, and operations, including purchases of raw materials from international suppliers, are subject to risks associated with local government laws, regulations, and policies (including those related to tariffs and trade barriers, investments, taxation, exchange controls, employment regulations and changes in laws and regulations). Our international sales and operations are also sensitive to 13 changes in foreign national priorities, including government budgets, as well as to geopolitical and economic instability. International transactions may involve increased financial and legal risks due to differing legal systems and customs in foreign countries, as well as compliance with anti-corruption laws such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act. The ability to manage these risks could be difficult and may limit our operations and make the manufacture and sale of our products internationally more difficult, which could negatively affect our business and results of operations. Conflicts, wars, natural disasters, climate change, infectious disease outbreaks or terrorist acts could also cause significant damage or disruption to our operations, employees, facilities, systems, suppliers, supply chain, distributors, resellers, or customers in the United States and internationally for extended periods of time and could also affect demand for our products. Net sales outside of the United States comprised approximately 13% of our total net sales in 2021. Security Breaches and Other Disruptions or Misuse of Information Systems We Rely Upon Could Affect Our Ability to Conduct Our Business Effectively. Our information systems and those of our business partners are important to our business activities. We also outsource various information systems, including data management, to third-party service providers. Despite our security measures as well as those of our business partners and third-party service providers, the information systems we rely upon may be vulnerable to interruption or damage from computer hackings, computer viruses, worms or other destructive or disruptive software, process breakdowns, denial of service attacks, malicious social engineering or other malicious activities, or any combination thereof. Attempts have been made to attack our information systems, but we do not believe that material harm has resulted. While we have implemented controls and taken other preventative actions to strengthen these systems against future attacks, we can give no assurance that these controls and preventative actions will be effective. Any breach of data security could result in a disruption of our services or improper disclosure of personal data or confidential information, which could harm our reputation, require us to expend resources to remedy such a security breach or defend against further attacks or subject us to liability under laws that protect personal data, resulting in increased operating costs or loss of revenue. We May Not be Able to Successfully Integrate and Operate Businesses that We May Acquire nor Realize the Anticipated Benefits of Strategic Relationships We May Form. From time to time, we may seek to complement or expand our businesses through strategic acquisitions, joint ventures, and strategic relationships. The success of these transactions will depend, in part, on our ability to timely identify those relationships, negotiate and close the transactions and then integrate, manage, and operate those businesses profitably. If we are unable to successfully do those things, we may not realize the anticipated benefits associated with such transactions, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. Any Future Determination that a Significant Impairment of the Value of Our Goodwill Intangible Asset Occurred Could Have an Adverse Effect on Our Results of Operations. As of December 31, 2021, we had goodwill of $186.6 million on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.  Any future determination that an impairment of the value of goodwill occurred would require a write-down of the impaired portion of goodwill to fair value and would reduce our assets and stockholders’ equity and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the other sections of this report, including the Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8, “Other Financial Statement Details,” of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Business Overview We operate in three reportable business segments of the heating, ventilation, air conditioning and refrigeration (“HVACR”) industry. Our reportable segments are Residential Heating & Cooling, Commercial Heating & Cooling, and Refrigeration.  For more detailed information regarding our reportable segments, see Note 3 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. We sell our products and services through a combination of direct sales, distributors and company-owned stores. The demand for our products and services is seasonal and significantly impacted by the weather.  Warmer than normal summer temperatures generate demand for replacement air conditioning and refrigeration products and services, and colder than normal winter temperatures have a similar effect on heating products and services.  Conversely, cooler than normal summers and warmer than normal winters depress the demand for HVACR products and services.  In addition to weather, demand for our products and services is influenced by national and regional economic and demographic factors, such as interest rates, the availability of financing, regional population and employment trends, new construction, general economic conditions and consumer spending habits and confidence.  A substantial portion of the sales in each of our business segments is attributable to replacement business, with the balance comprised of new construction business. The principal elements of cost of goods sold are components, raw materials, factory overhead, labor, estimated costs of warranty expense and freight and distribution costs.  The principal raw materials used in our manufacturing processes are steel, copper and aluminum.  In recent years, pricing volatility for these commodities and related components has impacted us and the HVACR industry in general.  We seek to mitigate the impact of commodity price volatility through a combination of pricing actions, vendor contracts, improved production efficiency and cost reduction initiatives. We also partially mitigate volatility in the prices of these commodities by entering into futures contracts and fixed forward contracts. Impact of COVID-19 Pandemic A novel strain of coronavirus (“COVID-19”) has surfaced and spread around the world, including to the United States. In March 2020, the World Health Organization declared COVID-19 a pandemic. Currently the COVID-19 pandemic has disrupted 17 our business operations and caused a significant unfavorable impact on our results of operations in 2020. The COVID-19 pandemic is creating supply chain disruptions and higher employee absenteeism in our factories and distribution locations. As the COVID-19 pandemic continues, health concern risks remain. We cannot predict whether any of our manufacturing, operational or distribution facilities will experience any future disruptions, or how long such disruptions would last.  It also remains unclear how various national, state, and local governments will react if the distribution of vaccines is slower than expected or new variants of the virus become more dominant.  If the COVID-19 pandemic worsens or the pandemic continues longer than presently expected, COVID 19 could impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. Financial Highlights • Net sales increased $560 million, or 15%, to $4,194 million in 2021 from $3,634 million in 2020. • Operating income in 2021 was $590 million compared to $479 million in 2020. • Net income in 2021 increased to $464 million from $356 million in 2020. • Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations were $12.39 per share in 2021 compared to $9.26 per share in 2020. • We generated $516 million of cash flow from operating activities in 2021 compared to $612 million in 2020. • In 2021, we returned $127 million to shareholders through dividend payments and we used $600 million to purchase 1.9 million shares of stock under our Share Repurchase Plans. Overview of Results The Residential Heating & Cooling segment performed well in 2021 , with an 18% increase in net sales and a $112 million increase in segment profit compared to 2020 primarily due to higher sales volumes.  Our Commercial Heating & Cooling segment saw an increase in net sales of 8% and a $26 million decrease in segment profit compared to 2020 primarily due to increased combined price and sales mix and increased product costs, respectively.  Sales in our Refrigeration segment increased 17% and segment profit increased $16 million compared to 2020 primarily due to higher sales volumes. Results of Operations The following table provides a summary of our financial results, including information presented as a percentage of net sales (dollars in millions): Year Ended December 31, 2021 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2020 - Consolidated Results Net Sales 18 Net sales increased 15% in 2021 compared to 2020, driven by higher sales volumes of 11% and an improved combined price and mix of 4%. The increase in volume and price and mix was due to strong demand across all three of our business segments. Gross Profit Gross profit margins for 2021 decreased 30 basis points (“bps”) to 28.3% compared to 28.6% in 2020.  Gross profit margin decreased 180 bps from higher commodity costs, 90 bps from other product costs, 20 bps from higher freight and distribution costs, and 10 bps for lower factory efficiency.  Partially offsetting these cost increases was 270 bps from favorable combined price and mix. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses SG&A expenses increased by $43 million in 2021 compared to 2020.  As a percentage of net sales, SG&A expenses decreased 100 bps from 15.3% to 14.3% in the same periods primarily due to lower discretionary expenditures. Losses (Gains) and Other Expenses, Net Losses (gains) and other expenses, net for 2021 and 2020 included the following (in millions): The charges incurred related to the COVID-19 pandemic related primarily to facility cleaning costs and sanitization supplies to ensure the health and safety of our employees.  The net change in unrealized losses on unsettled futures contracts was due to changes in commodity prices relative to the unsettled futures contract prices.  For more information on our derivatives, see Note 10 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Foreign currency exchange gains decreased in 2021 primarily due to weakening in foreign exchange rates in our primary markets.  The special legal contingency charges in 2021 relate to outstanding legal settlements.  The asbestos-related litigation relates to known and estimated future asbestos matters.  The environmental liabilities relate to estimated remediation costs for contamination at some of our facilities.  Refer to Note 5 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on litigation, including the asbestos-related litigation, and the environmental liabilities. Restructuring Charges Restructuring charges were $1.8 million in 2021 compared to $10.8 million in 2020. Charges in 2021 were related to ongoing cost reduction actions taken in prior years.  The charges in 2020 related primarily to several cost reduction actions taken in response to the economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business.  These actions consisted of employee terminations for positions that were no longer needed to support the business, selective facility closures, and cancellations of certain sales and marketing activities.  For more information on our restructuring activities, see Note 8 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Goodwill 19 We performed a qualitative impairment analysis and noted no indicators of goodwill impairment for the year ended December 31, 2021.  We did not record any goodwill impairments in 2021 or 2020.  Refer to Note 10 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on goodwill. Asset Impairments We did not have any impairments of assets related to continuing operations in 2021 or 2020. Pension Settlement We did not have significant pension buyout activity in 2021 and 2020.  Refer to Note 11 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on pensions and employee benefit plans. Income from Equity Method Investments Investments over which we do not exercise control but have significant influence are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.  Income from equity method investments was $12 million in 2021 compared to $16 million in 2020.  The decrease is du e to rising production costs at the joint ventures. Interest Expense, net Net interest expense of $25 million in 2021 decreased from $28 million in 2020 primarily due to lower borrowing and lower borrowing costs. Income Taxes The income tax provision was $96 million in 2021 compared to $88 million in 2020, and the effective tax rate was 17.2% in 2021 compared to 19.8% in 2020.  The 2021 and 2020 effective tax rates differ from the statutory rate of 21% primarily due to state and foreign taxes. Refer to Note 13 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on income taxes. Loss from Discontinued Operations Losses from discontinued operations were immaterial in 2021 and 2020 and relate to changes in retained product liabilities and general liabilities for the Service Experts business sold in 2013 and the Hearth business sold in 2012. Year Ended December 31, 2021 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2020 - Results by Segment Residential Heating & Cooling The following table presents our Residential Heating & Cooling segment’s net sales and profit for 2021 and 2020 (dollars in millions): Residential Heating & Cooling net sales increased 18% in 2021 compared to 2020. Sales volume increased 13%, price increased 5% and favorable foreign currency exchange rates caused an increase of 1%.  Partially offsetting these increases was a 1% reduction due to unfavorable product mix. Segment profit in 2021 increased $112 million compared to 2020 due to $108 million from favorable pricing, $91 million from higher sales volume, $9 million from favorable foreign currency exchange, $5 million from higher factory productivity, and $2 million from sourcing and engineering-led cost reductions.  Partially offsetting these increases were $59 million from 20 commodity costs, $20 million from higher warranty and other product costs, $14 million from higher SG&A, $5 million from unfavorable product mix, and $5 million from lower income from equity method investments. Commercial Heating & Cooling The following table presents our Commercial Heating & Cooling segment’s net sales and profit for 2021 and 2020 (dollars in millions): Commercial Heating & Cooling net sales increased 8% in 2021 compared to 2020.  Price and mix combined increased 4%, sales volume was 3% higher, and foreign currency improved 1%. Segment profit in 2021 decreased $26 million compared to 2020 due to $17 million from higher other product costs, $14 million from factory inefficiencies, $6 million from sourcing and engineering-led cost increases, $6 million from higher commodity costs, $6 million from higher freight and distribution costs, $4 million from higher SG&A costs, and $1 million from unfavorable foreign currency. Partially offsetting these declines was a favorable increase in combined price and mix of $19 million and $9 million from higher sales volume. Refrigeration The following table presents our Refrigeration segment’s net sales and profit for 2021 and 2020 (dollars in millions): Net sales increased 17% in 2021 compared to 2020. Sales volume increased 14%, price increased 3%, and foreign currency improved 1%.  Partially offsetting these increases was a 1% reduction due to unfavorable mix. Segment profit in 2021 increased $16 million compared to 2020 due to $23 million from higher sales volume, $13 million from higher price, $3 million from higher factory productivity, and $1 million from higher income from equity method investments. Partially offsetting these increases were $10 million from higher SG&A, $8 million from higher commodity costs, $2 million from higher other product costs, $2 million from unfavorable product mix, and $2 million from higher freight and distribution costs. Corporate and Other Corporate and other expenses increased by $5 million in 2021 compared to 2020 primarily due to increased headcount and increases in incentive compensation costs. Year Ended December 31, 2020 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2019 - Consolidated Results Net Sales Net sales decreased 5% in 2020 compared to 2019, driven by lower sales volumes of 5% and a 1% decline related to the sale of our Kysor Warren business in the first quarter of 2019, partially offset by improved combined price and mix of 1%.   The decrease in sales volume was primarily due to the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our Commercial and Refrigeration segments. 21 Gross Profit Gross profit margins for 2020 increased 20 basis points (“bps”) to 28.6% compared to 28.4% in 2019.  We saw margin increases of 90 bps from engineering and sourcing led cost reductions, 70 bps from lower commodity costs, and 20 bps from lower freight and distribution costs.  These were partially offset by 120 bps from unfavorable combined price and mix, 30 bps from higher product warranties, and 10 bps from other product costs. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses SG&A expenses decreased by $30 million in 2020 compared to 2019.  As a percentage of net sales, SG&A expenses decreased 10 bps from 15.4% to 15.3% in the same periods primarily due to lower discretionary expenditures. Losses (Gains) and Other Expenses, Net Losses (gains) and other expenses, net for 2020 and 2019 included the following (in millions): The charges incurred related to the COVID-19 pandemic related primarily to facility cleaning costs and sanitization supplies to ensure the health and safety of our employees.  The net change in unrealized losses on unsettled futures contracts was due to changes in commodity prices relative to the unsettled futures contract prices.  For more information on our derivatives, see Note 10 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Foreign currency exchange gains increased in 2020 primarily due to strengthening in foreign exchange rates in our primary markets.  The special legal contingency charges in 2020 relate to outstanding legal settlements.  The asbestos-related litigation relates to known and estimated future asbestos matters.  The environmental liabilities relate to estimated remediation costs for contamination at some of our facilities.  Refer to Note 5 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on litigation, including the asbestos-related litigation, and the environmental liabilities. Restructuring Charges Restructuring charges were $10.8 million in 2020 compared to $10.3 million in 2019. The charges in 2020 related primarily to several cost reduction actions taken in response to the economic impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on our business.  These actions consisted of employee terminations for positions that were no longer needed to support the business, selective facility closures, and cancellations of certain sales and marketing activities. Goodwill We performed a qualitative impairment analysis and noted no indicators of goodwill impairment for the year ended December 31, 2020.  We did not record any goodwill impairments in 2019 or 2020.  Refer to Note 10 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on goodwill. 22 Asset Impairments We did not have any impairments of assets related to continuing operations in 2020 or 2019. Pension Settlement In the second and fourth quarters of 2019, we entered into agreements to purchase group annuity contracts and transfer certain pension assets and related pension benefit obligations to Pacific Life Insurance Company.  We recognized $99.2 million of pension settlement charges related to these transactions.  We did not have significant pension buyout activity in 2020.  Refer to Note 11 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on pensions and employee benefit plans. Income from Equity Method Investments Investments over which we do not exercise control but have significant influence are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.  Income from equity method investments was $16 million in 2020 compared to $13 million in 2019.  The increase is due to improved operating performance at the joint ventures. Interest Expense, net Net interest expense of $28 million in 2020 decreased from $48 million in 2019 primarily due to lower borrowing and lower borrowing costs. Income Taxes The income tax provision was $88 million in 2020 compared to $99 million in 2019, and the effective tax rate was 19.8 % in 2020 compared to 19.5% in 2019.  The 2020 and 2019 effective tax rates differ from the statutory rate of 21% primarily due to state and foreign taxes. Refer to Note 13 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on income taxes. Loss from Discontinued Operations Losses from discontinued operations were $1 million in 2020 which primarily relate to changes in retained product liabilities and general liabilities for the Service Experts business sold in 2013 and the Hearth business sold in 2012. Year Ended December 31, 2020 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2019 - Results by Segment Residential Heating & Cooling The following table presents our Residential Heating & Cooling segment’s net sales and profit for 2020 and 2019 (dollars in millions): Residential Heating & Cooling net sales increased 3% in 2020 compared to 2019. Sales volume increased 2% and price and mix combined increased 1%. Segment profit in 2020 declined $36 million compared to 2019 due to $99 million of non-recurring insurance proceeds for lost profits related to the Marshalltown tornado, $10 million of higher warranty and other product costs, $5 million of higher tariffs, $3 million of combined price and mix, and $1 million of factory inefficiency. Partially offsetting these declines were $25 million of lower SG&A, $25 million of engineering and sourcing led cost reductions, $17 million from lower commodity costs, $8 million of lower freight and distribution expense, $5 million of higher sales volume, and $2 million of higher income from equity method investments. 23 Commercial Heating & Cooling The following table presents our Commercial Heating & Cooling segment’s net sales and profit for 2020 and 2019 (dollars in millions): Commercial Heating & Cooling net sales decreased 15% in 2020 compared to 2019.  Sales volume was 14% lower and price and mix combined decreased 1%. Segment profit in 2020 decreased $29 million compared to 2019 due to $47 million of lower sales volume and $10 million of unfavorable mix.  Partially offsetting these declines were $9 million of lower SG&A, $7 million of engineering and sourcing led cost reductions, $6 million from lower commodity costs, $2 million of factory productivity, $2 million of other product costs, $1 million of lower tariffs on imports, and $1 million of favorable foreign currency exchange rates. Refrigeration The following table presents our Refrigeration segment’s net sales and profit for 2020 and 2019 (dollars in millions): Net sales decreased 17% in 2020 compared to 2019.  Sales volume was 13% lower and the loss of sales from our divested Kysor Warren business contributed 6% which was partially offset by 1% of favorable combined price and mix and 1% from favorable foreign currency exchange rates. Segment profit in 2020 decreased $29 million compared to 2019 due to $26 million of lower sales volumes, $10 million of factory inefficiency, $5 million of other product costs and warranty, $2 million from non-recurring European refrigerant quota sales, $1 million of combined price and mix, and $1 million from lower income from equity method investments.  Partially offsetting these declines were $5 million from lower commodity costs, $4 million of engineering and sourcing led cost reductions, $4 million lower SG&A, $1 million lower freight and distribution expense, $1 million of higher profit due to the divestiture of the Kysor Warren business, and $1 million of favorable foreign currency exchange rates. Corporate and Other Corporate and other expenses increased by $9 million in 2020 compared to 2019 primarily due to short-term and long-term stock-based incentive compensation. 24 Accounting for Futures Contracts Realized gains and losses on settled futures contracts are a component of segment profit (loss). Unrealized gains and losses on unsettled futures contracts are excluded from segment profit (loss) as they are subject to changes in fair value until their settlement date.  Both realized and unrealized gains and losses on futures contracts are a component of Losses (gains) and other expenses, net in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations.  See Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on our derivatives and Note 3 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on our segments and for a reconciliation of segment profit to operating income. Liquidity and Capital Resources Our working capital and capital expenditure requirements are generally met through internally generated funds, bank lines of credit and an asset securitization arrangement.  Working capital needs are generally greater in the first and second quarters due to the seasonal nature of our business cycle. Statement of Cash Flows The following table summarizes our cash flow activity for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019 (in millions): Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities - Net cash provided by operating activities decreased $96 million to $516 million in 2021 compared to $612 million in 2020. The decrease was primarily attributable to increases in working capital partially offset by an increase in net income. Net Cash (Used in) Provided by Investing Activities - Net cash used in investing activities increased $27 million from 2020 to 2021 primarily due to increased capital expenditures. Capital expenditures were $107 million, $79 million and $106 million in 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. Capital expenditures in 2021 were primarily related to the expansion of our manufacturing capacity and equipment and investments in systems and software to support the overall enterprise. Net Cash Used in Financing Activities - Net cash used in financing activities increased to $499 million in 2021 from $442 million in 2020.  The increase is primarily due to an increase in share repurchases in 2021 partially offset by net borrowings and repayments on debt.  During 2021 we repurchased $600 million of shares compared to $100 million of shares in 2020.  We also returned $127 million to shareholders through dividend payments in 2021.  For additional information on share repurchases, refer to Note 6 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 25 Debt Position The following table details our lines of credit and financing arrangements as of December 31, 2021 (in millions): (1) The maximum securitization amount ranges from $300.0 million to $450.0 million, depending on the period. The maximum capacity of the Asset Securitization Program (“ASP”) is the lesser of the maximum securitization amount or 100% of the net pool balance less reserves, as defined under the ASP.  Refer to Note 14 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more details. (2) The total capacity on the facility is $750.0 million.  The amount available future borrowings on our domestic credit facility are $742 million after being reduced by the outstanding borrowings and $2 million in outstanding standby letters of credit as of December 31, 2021. July 2021 Credit Agreement In July 2021, we entered into the Credit Agreement (the “Credit Agreement”) with JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, and the other lenders party thereto, which refinanced and replaced the Prior Credit Agreement, among the Company, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent, and the other lenders party thereto. The Credit Agreement provides for revolving credit commitments of $750 million with sublimits for swingline loans of up to $65 million, letters of credit up to $100 million and revolving loans in certain non-U.S. currencies up to the U.S. dollar equivalent of $40 million. The Credit Agreement will expire and outstanding loans will be required to be repaid in July 2026, unless maturity is extended by the lenders pursuant to two one-year extension options that we may request under the Credit Agreement. At our request and subject to certain conditions, the revolving credit commitments under the Credit Agreement may be increased by up to a total of $350 million to the extent that existing or new lenders agree to provide additional commitments. The Credit Agreement is guaranteed by certain of our subsidiaries and contains customary covenants applicable to us and its subsidiaries including limitations on indebtedness, liens, dividends, stock repurchases, mergers and sales of all or substantially all of its assets. In addition, the Credit Agreement contains a financial covenant requiring us to maintain, as of the last day of each fiscal quarter for the four prior fiscal quarters, a Total Net Leverage Ratio of no more than 3.50 to 1.00 (or, at our election, on up to two occasions following a material acquisition, 4.00 to 1.00). The Credit Agreement is subject to customary events of default, including non-payment of principal or other amounts under the Credit Agreement, material inaccuracy of representations and warranties, breach of covenants, cross-default to other indebtedness in excess of $75 million, judgements in excess of $75 million, certain voluntary and involuntary bankruptcy events, and the occurrence of a change of control.  As of December 31, 2021, we believe we were in compliance with all covenant requirements. 26 Financial Leverage We periodically review our capital structure, including our primary bank facility, to ensure the appropriate levels of liquidity and leverage and to take advantage of favorable interest rate environments or other market conditions.  We consider various other financing alternatives and may, from time to time, access the capital markets. We also evaluate our debt-to-capital and debt-to-EBITDA ratios to determine, among other considerations, the appropriate targets for c apital expenditures and share repurchases under our Share Repurchase Plans.  Our book value of debt-to-total-capital ratio increased to 128% at December 31, 2021 compared to 102% at December 31, 2020. As of December 31, 2021, our senior credit ratings were Baa2 with a stable outlook, and BBB with a stable outlook, by Moody’s Investors Service, Inc. (“Moody’s”) and Standard & Poor’s Rating Group (“S&P”), respectively.  The security ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating agency.  Each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating.  Our goal is to maintain investment grade ratings from Moody’s and S&P to help ensure the capital markets remain available to us. Liquidity We believe our cash and cash equivalents of $31 million, future cash generated from operations and available future borrowings are sufficient to fund our operations, planned capital expenditures, future contractual obligations, share repurchases, anticipated dividends and other needs in the foreseeable future.  Included in our cash and cash equivalents as of December 31, 2021 was $14 million of cash held in foreign locations, although that amount can fluctuate significantly depending on the timing of cash receipts and payments.  Our cash and cash equivalents held in foreign locations is generally available for use in our U.S. operations and could be subject to foreign withholding taxes and U.S. state taxes. No contributions are required to be made to our U.S. defined benefit plans in 2022. We made $2 million in total contributions to pension plans in 2021. Dividend payments were $127 million in 2021 compared to $118 million in 2020. On May 19, 2021, our Board of Directors approved a 19% increase in our quarterly dividend on common stock from $0.77 to $0.92 per share effective with the July 2021 dividend payment. We also continued to increase shareholder value through our Share Repurchase Plans.  We returned $600 million to our investors through share repurchases in 2021.  Our Board of Directors authorized an incremental $1.0 billion of share repurchases in July 2021, and we had $846 million of repurchases available under the Share Repurchase Plans at December 31, 2021. We expect to repurchas e $400 million of shares in 2022. We expect capital expenditures of approximately $125 million in 2022. Financial Covenants related to our Debt Our domestic credit facility is guaranteed by certain of our subsidiaries and contains a financial covenant relating to leverage.  Other covenants contained in the domestic credit facility restrict, among other things, certain mergers, asset dispositions, guarantees, debt, liens, and affiliate transactions.  The financial covenant requires us to maintain a defined Consolidated Indebtedness to Adjusted EBITDA Ratio of no greater than 3.5 : 1.0. Our domestic credit facility contains customary events of default. These events of default include nonpayment of principal or other amounts, material inaccuracy of representations and warranties, breach of covenants, default on certain other indebtedness or receivables securitizations (cross default), certain voluntary and involuntary bankruptcy events and the occurrence of a change in control. A cross default under our credit facility could occur if: • We fail to pay any principal or interest when due on any other indebtedness or receivables securitization exceeding $75.0 million; or • We are in default in the performance of, or compliance with any term of any other indebtedness or receivables securitization in an aggregate principal amount exceeding $75.0 million, or any other condition exists which would give the holders the right to declare such indebtedness due and payable prior to its stated maturity. Each of our major debt agreements contains provisions by which a default under one agreement causes a default in the others (a cross default). If a cross default under our domestic credit facility, our senior unsecured notes, or our ASP were to 27 occur, it could have a wider impact on our liquidity than might otherwise occur from a default of a single debt instrument or lease commitment. If any event of default occurs and is continuing, the administrative agent, or lenders with a majority of the aggregate commitments may require the administrative agent to, terminate our right to borrow under our domestic credit facility and accelerate amounts due under our domestic credit facility (except for a bankruptcy event of default, in which case such amounts will automatically become due and payable and the lenders’ commitments will automatically terminate). In the event of a credit rating downgrade below investment grade resulting from a change of control, holders of our senior unsecured notes will have the right to require us to repurchase all or a portion of the senior unsecured notes at a repurchase price equal to 101% of the principal amount of the notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any. The notes are guaranteed, on a senior unsecured basis, by each of our subsidiaries that guarantee payment by us of any indebtedness under our domestic credit facility.  The indenture governing the notes contains covenants that, among other things, limit our ability and the ability of the subsidiary guarantors to: create or incur certain liens; enter into certain sale and leaseback transactions; enter into certain mergers, consolidations and transfers of substantially all of our assets; and transfer certain properties. The indenture also contains a cross default provision which is triggered if we default on other debt of at least $75 million in principal which is then accelerated, and such acceleration is not rescinded within 30 days of the notice date. As of December 31, 2021, we believe we were in compliance with all covenant requirements. Delaware law limits the ability to pay dividends to surplus or, if there is no surplus, out of net profits for the fiscal year in which the dividend is declared and/or the preceding fiscal year.  In addition, stock repurchases can only be made out of surplus and only if our capital would not be impaired. Leasing Commitments Refer to Note 5 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more details on our leasing commitments. Guarantees related to our Debt Obligations Our senior unsecured notes were issued by Lennox International Inc. (the “Parent”) and are unconditionally guaranteed by certain of our subsidiaries (the “Guarantor Subsidiaries”) and are not secured by our other subsidiaries.  The Guarantor Subsidiaries are 100% owned and consolidated, all guarantees are full and unconditional, and all guarantees are joint and several. In connection with the Credit Agreement, we entered into in July 2021, Heatcraft Technologies Inc., Lennox National Account Services Inc., Lennox Procurement Company Inc. and Lennox Services LLC became additional guarantors of our debt obligations, guaranteeing the payment when due of all monetary obligations under the Credit Agreement and the Notes.  In addition, Lennox Switzerland GmbH was released as a guarantor of all monetary obligations under the Credit Agreement and the Notes.  These changes did not result in a material change to the Parent and Guarantor Subsidiaries financial information. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no off-balance sheet arrangements that we believe may have a material current or future effect on our financial condition, liquidity or results of operations. Contractual Obligations Contractual obligations arise in the normal course of business and include debt and related interest payments, leases, purchase obligations, pension and post-retirement benefits and warranty liabilities.  For additional information regarding our contractual obligations, see Note 5 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  See Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on our pension and post-retirement benefits obligations.  See Note 14 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on our debt obligations. 28 Fair Value Measurements Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or the price paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.  Fair value is based upon the transparency of inputs to the valuation of an asset or liability as of the measurement date and requires consideration of our creditworthiness when valuing certain liabilities.  Our framework for measuring fair value is based on a three-level hierarchy for fair value measurements. The three-level fair value hierarchy for disclosure of fair value measurements is defined as follows: Level 1 -          Quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets at the measurement date. Level 2 - Quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets; quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active; and model-derived valuations in which all significant inputs and significant value drivers are observable in active markets at the measurement date and for the anticipated term of the instrument. Level 3 -     Valuations derived from valuation techniques in which one or more significant inputs or significant value drivers are unobservable inputs that reflect the reporting entity’s own assumptions about the assumptions market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability developed based on the best information available in the circumstances. Where available, the fair values were based upon quoted prices in active markets. However, if quoted prices were not available, then the fair values were based upon quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities or independently sourced market parameters, such as credit default swap spreads, yield curves, reported trades, broker/dealer quotes, interest rates and benchmark securities. For assets and liabilities without observable market activity, if any, the fair values were based upon discounted cash flow methodologies incorporating assumptions that, in our judgment, reflect the assumptions a marketplace participant would use.  Valuation adjustments to reflect either party’s creditworthiness and ability to pay were incorporated into our valuations, where appropriate, as of December 31, 2021 and 2020, the measurement dates.  See Note 17 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the assets and liabilities measured at fair value. Market Risk Commodity Price Risk We enter into commodity futures contracts to stabilize prices expected to be paid for raw materials and parts containing high copper and aluminum content. These contracts are for quantities equal to or less than quantities expected to be consumed in future production.  Fluctuations in metal commodity prices impact the value of the futures contracts that we hold.  When metal commodity prices rise, the fair value of our futures contracts increases.  Conversely, when commodity prices fall, the fair value of our futures contracts decreases.  Information about our exposure to metal commodity price market risks and a sensitivity analysis related to our metal commodity hedges is presented below (in millions): Refer to Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our commodity futures contracts. Interest Rate Risk Our results of operations can be affected by changes in interest rates due to variable rates of interest on our debt facilities, cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments.  A 10% adverse movement in the levels of interest rates across the entire yield curve would have resulted in an increase to pre-tax interest expense of approximately $0.4 million, $1.3 million and $3.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. From time to time, we may use an interest rate swap hedging strategy to eliminate the variability of cash flows in a portion of our interest payments.  This strategy, when employed, allows us to fix a portion of our interest payments while also taking advantage of historically low interest rates.  As of December 31, 2021 and 2020, no interest rate swaps were in effect. 29 Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk Our results of operations are affected by changes in foreign currency exchange rates.  Net sales and expenses in foreign currencies are translated into U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes based on the average exchange rate for the period.  During 2021, 2020 and 2019, net sales from outside the U.S. represented 13.1%, 13.0% and 13.2%, respectively, of our total net sales.  For the years ended December 31, 2021,  2020, and 2019, foreign currency transaction gains and losses di d not have a material impact to our results of operations.  A 10% change in foreign exchange rates would have had an estimated $2.7 million, $0.6 million and $4.2 million impact to net income for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, respectively. We seek to mitigate the impact of currency exchange rate movements on certain short-term transactions by periodically entering into foreign currency forward contracts.  By entering into forward contracts, we lock in exchange rates that would otherwise cause losses should the U.S. dollar appreciate and gains should the U.S. dollar depreciate.  Refer to Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding our foreign currency forward contracts. Critical Accounting Estimates A critical accounting estimate is one that requires difficult, subjective or complex estimates and assessments and is fundamental to our results of operations and financial condition.  The following describes our critical accounting estimate related to product warranties and product-related contingencies and how we develop our judgments, assumptions and estimates about future events and how such policies can impact our financial statements. This discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes in “Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.” Product Warranties and Product-Related Contingencies The estimate of our liability for future warranty costs requires us to make assumptions about the amount, timing and nature of future product-related costs.  Some of the warranties we issue extend 10 years or more in duration and a relatively small adjustment to an assumption may have a significant impact on our overall liability. From time to time, we may also incur costs to repair or replace installed products experiencing quality issues in order to satisfy our customers and protect our brand.  These product-related costs may not be covered under our warranties and are not covered by insurance. We periodically review the assumptions used to determine the liabilities for product warranties and product-related contingencies and we adjust our assumptions based upon factors such as actual failure rates and cost experience.  Numerous factors could affect actual failure rates and cost experience, including the amount and timing of new product introductions, changes in manufacturing techniques or locations, components or suppliers used.  Should actual costs differ from our estimates, we may be required to adjust the liabilities and to record expense in future periods.  See Note 5 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on our product warranties and product-related contingencies. Recent Accounting Pronouncements See Note 2 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for disclosure of recent accounting pronouncements and the potential impact on our financial statements and disclosures.