********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

Due to the size and geographic reach of the company’s operations, a wide range of factors, many of which are outside of the company’s control, could materially affect the company’s future operations and financial performance. Management believes the following risks may significantly impact the company: The COVID-19 global pandemic could materially adversely affect our results of operations. The COVID-19 global pandemic, including resurgences and variants of the virus that causes COVID-19, and efforts to reduce its spread have led, and may continue to lead to, significant changes in levels of economic activity and significant disruption and volatility in global markets. COVID-19 has resulted in authorities implementing numerous measures to try to contain the virus, such as travel bans and restrictions, quarantines, shelter in place orders, and shutdowns. These measures have impacted and may further impact our workforce and operations, the operations of our customers, vendors and suppliers. There is considerable uncertainty regarding such measures and potential future measures, and restrictions on our access to our manufacturing facilities or on our support operations or workforce, or similar limitations for our vendors and suppliers, and restrictions or disruptions of transportation, such as reduced availability of air transport, port closures, and increased border controls or closures, could limit our capacity to meet customer demand and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. These restrictions and disruptions could affect our performance on our contracts. Furthermore, COVID-19 has impacted and may further impact the broader economies of affected countries, including negatively impacting economic growth, the proper functioning of financial and capital markets, foreign currency exchange rates, and interest rates. Risks related to economic conditions are described in our Principal Risks and Uncertainties titled “Weakening economic conditions in markets in which Linde does business may adversely impact its financial results and/or cash flows” and “Macroeconomic factors may impact Linde’s ability to obtain financing or increase the cost of obtaining financing which may adversely impact Linde’s financial results and/or cash flows." Weakening economic conditions in markets in which Linde does business may adversely impact its financial results and/or cash flows. Linde serves a diverse group of industries across more than 100 countries, which generally leads to financial stability through various business cycles. However, a broad decline in general economic or business conditions in the industries served by its customers could adversely affect the demand for Linde’s products and impair the ability of its customers to satisfy their obligations to Linde, resulting in uncollected receivables and/or unanticipated contract terminations or project delays. For example, global political and economic uncertainty could reduce investment activities of Linde’s customers, which could adversely affect Linde’s business. In addition, many of Linde’s customers are in businesses that are cyclical in nature, such as the chemicals, metals and energy industries. Downturns in these industries may adversely impact Linde during these cycles. Additionally, such conditions could impact the utilization of Linde’s manufacturing capacity which may require it to recognize impairment losses on tangible assets such as property, plant and equipment, as well as intangible assets such as goodwill, customer relationships or intellectual property. Increases in the cost of energy and raw materials and/or disruption in the supply of these materials could result in lost sales or reduced profitability. Energy is the single largest cost item in the production and distribution of industrial gases. Most of Linde’s energy requirements are in the form of electricity, natural gas and diesel fuel for distribution. Linde attempts to minimize the financial impact of variability in these costs through the management of customer contracts and reducing demand through operational productivity and energy efficiency. Large customer contracts typically have escalation and pass-through clauses to recover energy and feedstock costs. Such attempts may not successfully mitigate cost variability, which could negatively impact Linde’s financial condition or results of operations. The supply of energy has not been a significant issue in the geographic areas where Linde conducts business. However, regional energy conditions are unpredictable and may pose future risk. For carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, helium, hydrogen and specialty gases, raw materials are largely purchased from outside sources. Where feasible, Linde sources several of these raw materials, including carbon dioxide, hydrogen and calcium carbide, as chemical or industrial byproducts. In addition, Linde has contracts or commitments for, or readily 9 available sources of, most of these raw materials; however, their long-term availability and prices are subject to market conditions. A disruption in supply of such raw materials could impact Linde’s ability to meet contractual supply commitments. Linde’s international operations are subject to the risks of doing business abroad and international events and circumstances may adversely impact its business, financial condition or results of operations. Linde has substantial international operations which are subject to risks including devaluations in currency exchange rates, transportation delays and interruptions, political and economic instability and disruptions, restrictions on the transfer of funds, trade conflicts and the imposition of duties and tariffs, import and export controls, changes in governmental policies, labor unrest, possible nationalization and/or expropriation of assets, changes in U.S. and non-U.S. tax policies and compliance with governmental regulations. These events could have an adverse effect on the international operations of Linde in the future by reducing the demand for its products, decreasing the prices at which it can sell its products, reducing the revenue from international operations or otherwise having an adverse effect on its business. Currency exchange rate fluctuations and other related risks may adversely affect Linde's results. Because a significant portion of Linde's revenue is denominated in currencies other than its reporting currency, the U.S. dollar, changes in exchange rates will produce fluctuations in revenue, costs and earnings and may also affect the book value of assets and liabilities and related equity. Although the company from time to time utilizes foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge these exposures, its efforts to minimize currency exposure through such hedging transactions may not be successful depending on market and business conditions. As a result, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could adversely affect Linde’s financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Macroeconomic factors may impact Linde’s ability to obtain financing or increase the cost of obtaining financing which may adversely impact Linde’s financial results and/or cash flows. Volatility and disruption in the U.S., European and global credit and equity markets, from time to time, could make it more difficult for Linde to obtain financing for its operations and/or could increase the cost of obtaining financing. In addition, Linde’s borrowing costs can be affected by short- and long-term debt ratings assigned by independent rating agencies which are based, in significant part, on its performance as measured by certain criteria such as interest coverage and leverage ratios. A decrease in these debt ratings could increase the cost of borrowing or make it more difficult to obtain financing. An impairment of goodwill or intangible assets could negatively impact the company's financial results. As of December 31, 2021, the net carrying value of goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets was $27 billion and $2 billion, respectively, primarily as a result of the business combination and the related acquisition method of accounting applied to Linde AG. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, the company periodically assesses these assets to determine if they are impaired. Significant negative industry or economic trends, disruptions to business, unexpected significant changes or planned changes in use of the assets, divestitures and sustained market capitalization declines may result in recognition of impairments to goodwill or other indefinite-lived assets. Any charges relating to such impairments could have a material adverse impact on Linde's results of operations in the periods recognized. Catastrophic events could disrupt the operations of Linde and/or its customers and suppliers and may have a significant adverse impact on the results of operations. The occurrence of catastrophic events or natural disasters such as extreme weather, including hurricanes and floods; health epidemics; and acts of war or terrorism, could disrupt or delay Linde’s ability to produce and distribute its products to customers and could potentially expose Linde to third-party liability claims. In addition, such events could impact Linde’s customers and suppliers resulting in temporary or long-term outages and/or the limitation of supply of energy and other raw materials used in normal business operations. Linde evaluates the direct and indirect business risks, consults with vendors, insurance providers and industry experts, makes investments in suitably resilient design and technology, and conducts regular reviews of the business risks with management. Despite these steps, however, these situations are outside Linde’s control and may have a significant adverse impact on its financial results. 10 The inability to attract and retain qualified personnel may adversely impact Linde’s business. If Linde fails to attract, hire and retain qualified personnel, it may not be able to develop, market or sell its products or successfully manage its business. Linde is dependent upon a highly skilled, experienced and efficient workforce to be successful. Much of Linde’s competitive advantage is based on the expertise and experience of key personnel regarding marketing, technology, manufacturing and distribution infrastructure, systems and products. The inability to attract and hire qualified individuals or the loss of key employees in very skilled areas could have a negative effect on Linde’s financial results. If Linde fails to keep pace with technological advances in the industry or if new technology initiatives do not become commercially accepted, customers may not continue to buy Linde’s products and results of operations could be adversely affected. Linde’s research and development is directed toward developing new and improved methods for the production and distribution of industrial gases, the design and construction of plants and toward developing new markets and applications for the use of industrial and process gases. This results in the introduction of new applications and the development of new advanced process technologies. As a result of these efforts, Linde develops new and proprietary technologies and employs necessary measures to protect such technologies within the global geographies in which Linde operates. These technologies help Linde to create a competitive advantage and to provide a platform to grow its business. If Linde’s research and development activities do not keep pace with competitors or if Linde does not create new technologies that benefit customers, future results of operations could be adversely affected. Risks related to pension benefit plans may adversely impact Linde’s results of operations and cash flows. Pension benefits represent significant financial obligations that will be ultimately settled in the future with employees who meet eligibility requirements. Because of the uncertainties involved in estimating the timing and amount of future payments and asset returns, significant estimates are required to calculate pension expense and liabilities related to Linde’s plans. Linde utilizes the services of independent actuaries, whose models are used to facilitate these calculations. Several key assumptions are used in the actuarial models to calculate pension expense and liability amounts recorded in the consolidated financial statements. In particular, significant changes in actual investment returns on pension assets, discount rates, or legislative or regulatory changes could impact future results of operations and required pension contributions. Operational risks may adversely impact Linde’s business or results of operations. Linde’s operating results are dependent on the continued operation of its production facilities and its ability to meet customer contract requirements and other needs. Insufficient or excess capacity threatens Linde’s ability to generate competitive profit margins and may expose Linde to liabilities related to contract commitments. Operating results are also dependent on Linde’s ability to complete new construction projects on time, on budget and in accordance with performance requirements. Failure to do so may expose Linde’s business to loss of revenue, potential litigation and loss of business reputation. Also inherent in the management of Linde’s production facilities and delivery systems, including storage, vehicle transportation and pipelines, are operational risks that require continuous training, oversight and control. Material operating failures at production, storage facilities or pipelines, including fire, toxic release and explosions, or the occurrence of vehicle transportation accidents could result in loss of life, damage to the environment, loss of production and/or extensive property damage, all of which may negatively impact Linde’s financial results. Linde may be subject to information technology system failures, network disruptions and breaches in data security. Linde relies on information technology systems and networks for business and operational activities, and also stores and processes sensitive business and proprietary information in these systems and networks. These systems are susceptible to outages due to fire, flood, power loss, telecommunications failures, viruses, break-ins and similar events, or breaches of security. Linde has taken steps to address these risks and concerns by implementing advanced security technologies, internal controls, network and data center resiliency and recovery process. Despite these steps, however, our information technology systems have in the past been and in the future will likely be subject to increasingly sophisticated cyber attacks. 11 Operational failures and breaches of security from such attempts could lead to the loss or disclosure of confidential information or personal data belonging to Linde or our employees and customers or suppliers. These failures and breaches could result in business interruption or malfunction and lead to legal or regulatory actions that could result in a material adverse impact on Linde’s operations, reputation and financial results.  To date, such attempts have not had any significant impact on Linde's operations or financial results. The inability to effectively integrate acquisitions or collaborate with joint venture partners could adversely impact Linde’s financial position and results of operations. Linde has evaluated and expects to continue to evaluate, a wide array of potential strategic acquisitions and joint ventures. Many of these transactions, if consummated, could be material to its financial condition and results of operations. In addition, the process of integrating an acquired company, business or group of assets may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures. Although historically Linde has been successful with its acquisition strategy and execution, the areas where Linde may face risks include: • the need to implement or remediate controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a larger public company at companies that prior to the acquisition lacked these controls, procedures and policies; • diversion of management time and focus from operating existing business to acquisition integration challenges; • cultural challenges associated with integrating employees from the acquired company into the existing organization; • the need to integrate each company’s accounting, management information, human resources and other administrative systems to permit effective management; • difficulty with the assimilation of acquired operations and products; • failure to achieve targeted synergies and cost reductions; and • inability to retain key employees and business relationships of acquired companies. Foreign acquisitions and joint ventures involve unique risks in addition to those mentioned herein, including those related to integration of operations across different cultures and languages, currency risks and the particular economic, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries. Also, the anticipated benefit of potential future acquisitions may not materialize. Future acquisitions or dispositions could result in the incurrence of debt, contingent liabilities or amortization expenses, or impairments of goodwill, any of which could adversely impact Linde’s financial results. Linde is subject to a variety of international laws and government regulations and changes in, or failure to comply with, these laws or regulations could have an adverse impact on the company’s business, financial position and results of operations. Linde is subject to regulations in the following areas, among others: • environmental protection, including climate change and energy efficiency laws and policies; • U.S. and non-U.S. tax laws and currency controls; • safety; • securities laws applicable in the United States, the European Union, Germany, Ireland, and other jurisdictions; • trade and import/export restrictions, as well as economic sanctions laws; • antitrust matters; • data protection; • global anti-bribery laws, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act; and • healthcare regulations. Changes in these or other regulatory areas may impact Linde’s profitability and may give rise to new or increased compliance risks: it may become more complex and costly to ensure compliance, and the level of sanctions in the event of non-compliance may rise. Noncompliance with such laws and regulations could result in penalties or sanctions, cancellation of marketing rights or restrictions on participation in, or even exclusion from, public tender proceedings, all of which could have a material adverse impact on Linde’s financial results and/or reputation. 12 Such changes may also restrict Linde’s ability to compete effectively in the marketplace.  Changes to regulations in the areas of environmental protection and climate change, for example, may impact customer and competitor behavior driving structural changes in key end markets.  While Linde will work to mitigate these risks through the pursuit of strategic alliances and investment in applications technologies to capture new growth areas, given the uncertainty about the type and scope of new regulations, it is difficult to predict how such changes and their impact on market behavior will ultimately impact Linde’s business.  However, such changes could have a material adverse impact on Linde's results of operations. Doing business globally requires Linde to comply with anti-corruption, trade, compliance and economic sanctions and similar laws, and to implement policies and procedures designed to ensure that its employees and other intermediaries comply with the applicable restrictions. These restrictions include prohibitions on the sale or supply of certain products, services and any other economic resources to embargoed or sanctioned countries, governments, persons and entities. Compliance with these restrictions requires, among other things, screening of business partners. Despite its commitment to legal compliance and corporate ethics, the company cannot ensure that its policies and procedures will always protect it from intentional, reckless or negligent acts committed by employees or agents under the applicable laws. If Linde fails to comply with laws governing the conduct of international operations, Linde may be subject to criminal and civil penalties and other remedial measures, which could materially adversely affect its reputation, business and results of operations. The outcome of litigation or governmental investigations may adversely impact the company’s business or results of operations. Linde’s subsidiaries are party to various lawsuits and governmental investigations arising in the ordinary course of business. Adverse outcomes in some or all of the claims pending may result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that could adversely affect Linde’s ability to conduct business. Linde and its subsidiaries may in the future become subject to further claims and litigation, which is impossible to predict.  The litigation and other claims Linde faces are subject to inherent uncertainties. Legal or regulatory judgments or agreed settlements might give rise to expenses which are not covered, or are not fully covered, by insurance benefits and may also lead to negative publicity and reputational damage. An unfavorable outcome or determination could cause a material adverse impact on the company’s results of operations. Potential product defects or inadequate customer care may adversely impact Linde’s business or results of operations. Risks associated with products and services may result in potential liability claims, the loss of customers or damage to Linde’s reputation. Principal possible causes of risks associated with products and services are product defects or an inadequate level of customer care when Linde is providing services. Linde is exposed to legal risks relating to product liability in the countries where it operates, including countries such as the United States, where legal risks (in particular through class actions) have historically been more significant than in other countries. The outcome of any pending or future products and services proceedings or investigations cannot be predicted and legal or regulatory judgments or agreed settlements may give rise to significant losses, costs and expenses. The manufacturing and sale of products as well as the construction and sale of plants by Linde may give rise to risks associated with the production, filling, storage, handling and transport of raw materials, goods or waste. Industrial gases are potentially hazardous substances and medical gases and the related healthcare services must comply with the relevant specifications in order to not adversely affect the health of patients treated with them. Linde’s products and services, if defective or not handled or performed appropriately, may lead to personal injuries, business interruptions, environmental damages or other significant damages, which may result, among other consequences, in  liability, losses, monetary penalties or compensation payments, environmental clean-up costs or other costs and expenses, exclusion from certain market sectors deemed important for future development of the business and loss of reputation.  All these consequences could have a material adverse effect on Linde’s business and results of operations. U.S. civil liabilities may not be enforceable against Linde. Linde is organized under the laws of Ireland and substantial portions of its assets are located outside of the United States. In addition, certain directors and officers of Linde and its subsidiaries reside outside the United States. As a result, it may be difficult for investors to effect service of process within the United States upon Linde or such persons, or to enforce outside the United States judgments obtained against such persons in U.S. courts in any action, including actions predicated upon the civil liability provisions of the U.S. federal securities laws. In addition, it may be difficult for investors to enforce, in 13 original actions brought in courts in jurisdictions located outside the United States, rights predicated upon the U.S. federal securities laws. A judgment for the payment of money rendered by a court in the United States based on civil liability would not be automatically enforceable in Ireland. There is no treaty between Ireland and the United States providing for the reciprocal enforcement of foreign judgments. The following requirements must be met before the foreign judgment will be deemed to be enforceable in Ireland (i) the judgment must be for a definite sum, (ii) the judgment must be final and conclusive; and (iii) the judgment must be provided by a court of competent jurisdiction. An Irish court will also exercise its right to refuse judgment if the foreign judgment (i) was obtained by fraud; (ii) violated Irish public policy; (iii) is in breach of natural justice; or (iv) if the judgment is irreconcilable with an earlier foreign judgment. In addition, there is doubt as to whether an Irish court would accept jurisdiction and impose civil liability on Linde  or such persons in an original action predicated solely upon the U.S. federal securities laws brought in a court of competent jurisdiction in Ireland against Linde or such member, officer or expert, respectively. Changes in tax laws or policy could adversely impact the company’s financial position or results of operations. Linde and its subsidiaries are subject to the tax rules and regulations in the U.S., Germany, Ireland, the U.K. and other countries in which they operate. Those tax rules and regulations are subject to change on a prospective or retroactive basis. Under current economic and political conditions tax rates and policies in any jurisdiction, including the U.S., the U.K. and the EU, are subject to significant changes which could result in a significant change to Linde's current and deferred income tax. In particular, since Linde is currently treated as U.K. tax resident, any potential changes in the tax rules applying to U.K. tax-resident companies would directly affect Linde. A change in Linde’s tax residency could have a negative effect on the company’s future profitability and may trigger taxes on dividends or exit charges.  If Linde ceases to be resident in the U.K. and becomes resident in another jurisdiction, it may be subject to U.K. exit charges, and/or could become liable for additional tax charges in the other jurisdiction.  If Linde were to be treated as resident in more than one jurisdiction, it could be subject to duplicative taxation. Furthermore, although Linde is incorporated in Ireland and is not expected to be treated as a domestic corporation for U.S. federal income tax purposes, it is possible that the IRS could challenge this result or that changes in U.S. federal income tax law could alter this result.  If the IRS successfully asserted such a position or the law were to change, significant adverse tax consequences may result for Linde, the company and Linde’s shareholders. Changes in tax laws may result in higher tax expense and tax payments. In addition, changes in tax legislation and uncertainty about the tax environment in some regions may restrict Linde's opportunity to enforce its respective rights under the law. Linde also operates in countries with complex tax regulations which could be interpreted in different ways. Linde and its subsidiaries are subject to audits by taxing authorities in various jurisdictions or other review actions by the relevant financial or tax authorities. The ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in Linde’s or its subsidiaries’ financial statements and may materially affect their respective financial results for the period when such determination is made. 14

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion of the company’s financial condition and results of operations should be read together with its consolidated financial statements and notes to the consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. 18 BUSINESS OVERVIEW The company's primary products in its industrial gases business are atmospheric gases (oxygen, nitrogen, argon, rare gases) and process gases (carbon dioxide, helium, hydrogen, electronic gases, specialty gases, acetylene). The company also designs, engineers, and builds equipment that produces industrial gases and offers its customers a wide range of gas production and processing services such as olefin plants, natural gas plants, air separation plants, hydrogen and synthesis gas plants and other types of plants. Linde’s industrial gas operations are managed on a geographical basis and in 2021 84% of sales were generated by Linde's three geographic segments (Americas, EMEA and APAC) and the remaining 16% are related primarily to the Engineering segment, and to a lesser extent Other (see Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements for operating segment details). Linde serves a diverse group of industries including healthcare, chemicals and energy, manufacturing, metals and mining, food and beverage, and electronics. The diversity of end-markets supports financial stability for Linde in varied business cycles. Linde generates most of its revenues and earnings in the following geographies where the company has its strongest market positions and where distribution and production operations allow the company to deliver the highest level of service to its customers at the lowest cost. The company manufactures and distributes its industrial gas products through networks of thousands of production plants, pipeline complexes, distribution centers and delivery vehicles. Major pipeline complexes are primarily located in the United States and China.  These networks are a competitive advantage, providing the foundation of reliable product supply to the company’s customer base. The majority of Linde’s business is conducted through long-term contracts which provide stability in cash flow and the ability to pass through changes in energy and feedstock costs to customers. The company has growth opportunities in all major geographies and in diverse end-markets such as healthcare, chemicals and energy, manufacturing, metals and mining, food and beverage, and electronics. 19 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY – FINANCIAL RESULTS & OUTLOOK 2021 Year in review • Sales of $30,793 million were 13% above 2020 sales of $27,243 million. Volume growth across all end markets and project start-ups increased sales by 8% .  Higher pricing across all geographic segments contributed 3% to sales. Favorable currency translation and higher cost pass-through increased sales by 5%, partially offset by the deconsolidation of a joint venture with operations in APAC which decreased sales by 3% . • Reported operating profit of $4,984 million was 50% above 2020. Adjusted operating profit of $7,176 million was 24% above 2020. The increase in both reported and adjusted operating profit was primarily driven by higher volume and price and the benefit of cost reduction programs and other charges and productivity initiatives, partially offset by the deconsolidation of a joint venture with operations in APAC.* • Income from continuing operations of $3,821 million and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of   $7.32 increased from $2,497 million and $4.70, respectively in 2020.  Adjusted income from continuing operations of $5,579 million and adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $10.69 were 28% and 30%, respectively above 2020 adjusted amounts.* • Cash flow from operations of $9,725 million was 31% above 2020. Capital expenditures were $3,086 million; dividends paid were $2,189 million; net purchases of ordinary shares of $4,562 million; and debt repayments, net were $514 million. *A reconciliation of the adjusted amounts can be found in the "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" section in this MD&A. 2022 Outlook Linde provides quarterly updates on operating results, material trends that may affect financial performance, and financial guidance via earnings releases and investor teleconferences. These materials are available on the company’s website, www.linde.com, but are not incorporated herein. 20 CONSOLIDATED RESULTS AND OTHER INFORMATION The discussion that follows includes a comparison of our results of operations and liquidity and capital resources for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020. For the discussion comparing the years ended December 31, 2020 and 2019, refer to Part II, Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, of our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020. The following table provides summary information for 2021 and 2020.  The reported amounts are GAAP amounts from the Consolidated Statements of Income. The adjusted amounts are intended to supplement investors' understanding of the company's financial information and are not a substitute for GAAP measures. ________________________ (a) See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements. (b) Adjusted amounts and Other Financial Data are non-GAAP performance measures.  A reconciliation of reported amounts to adjusted amounts can be found in the "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" section of this MD&A. 21 Results of Operations The following table provides a summary of changes in consolidated sales: 2021 Compared With 2020 Sales Linde sales increased $3,550 million, or 13%, for the 2021 year versus 2020. Volume growth across all end markets and project start ups increased sales by 8%. Higher pricing across all geographic segments contributed 3% to sales. Currency translation increased sales by 2%, largely in EMEA and APAC, driven by the strengthening of the Euro, Australian dollar, Chinese yuan and British pound against the U.S. dollar. Cost pass-through, representing the contractual billing of energy cost variances primarily to onsite customers, increased sales by 3%, with minimal impact on operating profit. Divestitures decreased sales by 3% primarily driven by the deconsolidation of a joint venture with operations in APAC (see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements). Cost of sales, exclusive of depreciation and amortization Cost of sales, exclusive of depreciation and amortization, increased $2,160 million, or 14%, for the year primarily due to higher volumes, cost pass-through and currency impacts, partially offset by productivity initiatives. Cost of sales, exclusive of depreciation and amortization, was 57.0% and 56.5% of sales, respectively, in 2021 compared to 2020. The increase as a percentage of sales was due primarily to higher cost pass-through. Selling, general and administrative expenses Selling, general and administrative expense ("SG&A") decreased $4 million, from $3,193 in 2020 to $3,189 million in 2021. SG&A was 10.4% of sales in 2021 versus 11.7% in 2020, primarily due to continued productivity initiatives and the impact of higher cost pass-through on sales. Currency impacts increased SG&A by approximately $62 million in 2021. Excluding currency impacts, underlying SG&A decreased due to continued productivity initiatives. Depreciation and amortization Reported depreciation and amortization expense increased $9 million versus 2020.  The increase is primarily due to currency translation impacts, partially offset by a decrease related primarily to intangible assets acquired in the merger becoming fully amortized. On an adjusted basis, depreciation and amortization expense increased $66 million, or 2%, versus 2020. The increase is primarily due to currency translation impacts which increased depreciation and amortization by approximately $60 million in 2021. Excluding currency impacts, underlying depreciation was relatively flat as the impact of new project start ups was largely offset by the decrease related to the deconsolidation of a joint venture with operations in APAC (see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements). Cost reduction programs and other charges Linde recorded cost reduction programs and other charges of $273 million and $506 million for 2021 and 2020, respectively, primarily associated with the company's cost reduction program, which represents charges for achieving synergies and cost efficiencies related to the merger (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements). On an adjusted basis, these costs have been excluded in both periods. Operating profit Reported operating profit increased $1,662 million in 2021, or 50%. On an adjusted basis, operating profit increased $1,379 million, or 24%, for 2021 versus 2020. 22 On a reported basis, operating profit increased $1,662 million, or 50% in 2021. The increase in the year was driven by higher volumes and price, partially offset by the deconsolidation of a joint venture with operations in APAC. Cost reduction programs and other charges were $273 million in 2021 and $506 million in 2020. On an adjusted basis, which excludes the impacts of purchase accounting, cost reduction programs and other charges, operating profit increased $1,379 million, or 24%. Operating profit growth was driven by higher volume and price and the benefit of cost reduction programs and productivity initiatives, partially offset by the deconsolidation of a joint venture with operations in APAC. A discussion of operating profit by segment is included in the segment discussion that follows. Interest expense - net Reported interest expense – net in 2021 decreased $38 million, or 33%, versus 2020 .  On an adjusted basis interest expense decreased $54 million, or 29% in 2021 as compared to 2020. On both a reported and adjusted basis, the decrease year over year was driven by a lower effective borrowing rate and the impact of unfavorable foreign currency revaluation on an unhedged intercompany loan in the prior year. Net pension and OPEB cost (benefit), excluding service cost Reported net pension and OPEB cost (benefit), excluding service cost was a benefit of $192 million and $177 million in 2021 and 2020, respectively. The increase in benefit largely relates to a higher expected return on plan assets and lower interest costs, partially offset by higher amortization of deferred losses (see Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements). Effective tax rate The reported effective tax rate ("ETR") for 2021 was 24.7% versus 25.0% in 2020.  The decrease is primarily driven by increased pre-tax income and jurisdictional mix. 2021 includes a deferred income tax charge related to the revaluation of net deferred tax liabilities for a tax rate increase in the United Kingdom, offset by a reduction to tax expense related to uncertain tax benefits and accrued interest and penalties of $47 million (see Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements). On an adjusted basis, the ETR for 2021 was 24.1% versus 23.8% in 2020. The increase in the adjusted ETR is primarily due to lower tax benefits in 2021 relative to higher pre-tax income. Income from equity investments Reported income from equity investments for 2021 was $119 million as compared to $85 million in 2020. On an adjusted basis, income from equity investments for 2021 was $231 million versus $142 million in 2020. On a reported basis, the increase in income from equity investments was primarily driven by the deconsolidation of a joint venture with operations in APAC which is reflected in equity income effective January 1, 2021, partially offset by a $35 million impairment charge related to a joint venture in the APAC segment in the third quarter of 2021. On an adjusted basis, the increase in income from equity investments was primarily driven by the deconsolidation of a joint venture with operations in APAC which is reflected in equity income effective January 1, 2021. Noncontrolling interests from continuing operations At December 31, 2021, noncontrolling interests from continuing operations consisted primarily of noncontrolling shareholders’ investments in APAC (primarily in China) and surface technologies. Reported noncontrolling interests from continuing operations increased $10 million, from $125 million in 2020 to $135 million in 2021, primarily driven by higher income from continuing operations, partially offset by the deconsolidation of a joint venture with operations in APAC (see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements) and the buyout of minority shareholders in the Republic of South Africa. Adjusted noncontrolling interests from continuing operations decreased $36 million in 2021 as compared to 2020, primarily driven by the deconsolidation of a joint venture with operations in APAC (See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements) and the buyout of minority shareholders in the Republic of South Africa, which more than offset the increase from higher income from continuing operations. Income from continuing operations Reported income from continuing operations increased $1,324 million, or 53%, primarily due to higher overall operating profit. 23 On an adjusted basis, which excludes the impacts of purchase accounting and other non-GAAP adjustments, income from continuing operations increased $1,208 million, or 28%, in 2021 versus 2020. The increase was primarily due to higher adjusted operating profit. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations Reported diluted earnings per share from continuing operations increased $2.62, or 56%, in 2021 as compared to 2020. On an adjusted basis, diluted EPS of $10.69 in 2021 increased 30% versus 2020. The increase on both reported and adjusted basis was primarily due to higher income from continuing operations and lower diluted shares outstanding. Employees The number of employees at December 31, 2021 was 72,327, a decrease of 3%, or 1,880 employees from December 31, 2020, primarily driven by cost reduction actions and divestitures. Other Financial Data EBITDA increased to $9,738 million in 2021 from $8,033 million in 2020. Adjusted EBITDA from continuing operations increased to $10,179 million for 2021 as compared to $8,645 million in 2020, primarily due to higher income from continuing operations versus the prior year period. See the "Non-GAAP Financial Measures" section for definitions and reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to reported GAAP amounts. Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) Other comprehensive income (loss) for the year ended December 31, 2021 of $358 million resulted primarily from currency translation adjustments of $1,175 million largely offset by an increase in the funded status of the company's retirement obligations of $746 million driven by a higher discount rate environment and strong asset performance. The translation adjustments reflect the impact of translating local currency foreign subsidiary financial statements to U.S. dollars, and are largely driven by the movement of the U.S. dollar against major currencies including the Euro, the Chinese yuan and the British pound. See the "Currency" section of the MD&A for exchange rates used for translation purposes and Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements for a summary of the currency translation adjustment component of accumulated other comprehensive income by segment. Related Party Transactions The company’s related parties are primarily unconsolidated equity affiliates. The company did not engage in any material transactions involving related parties that included terms or other aspects that differ from those which would be negotiated with independent parties. Environmental Matters Linde’s principal operations relate to the production and distribution of atmospheric and other industrial gases, which historically have not had a significant impact on the environment. However, worldwide costs relating to environmental protection may continue to grow due to increasingly stringent laws and regulations, and Linde's ongoing commitment to rigorous internal standards. In addition, Linde may face physical risks from climate change and extreme weather. Climate Change Linde operates in jurisdictions that have, or are developing, laws and/or regulations to reduce or mitigate the adverse effects of greenhouse gas ("GHG") emissions and faces a highly uncertain regulatory environment in this area. For example, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") has promulgated rules requiring reporting of GHG emissions, and Linde and many of its suppliers and customers are subject to these rules.  EPA has also promulgated regulations to restrict GHG emissions, including final rules regulating GHG emissions from light-duty vehicles and certain large manufacturing facilities, many of which are Linde suppliers or customers. In addition to these developments in the United States, several other countries worldwide have already implemented carbon taxation or trading systems which impact the company's customers and Linde operations, including regulations in China, Singapore and the European Union. Among other impacts, such regulations are expected to raise the cost of energy, which is a significant cost for Linde. Nevertheless, Linde's long-term customer contracts routinely provide rights to recover increased electricity, natural gas, and other costs that are incurred by the company as a result of climate change regulation. 24 Linde anticipates continued growth in its hydrogen business due to increased focus on lowering GHG emissions.  Traditionally, hydrogen production plants and a large number of other manufacturing and electricity-generating plants have been identified in California and the European Union as a source of carbon dioxide emissions and these plants are subject to cap-and-trade regulations in those jurisdictions. Linde believes it will be able to mitigate the costs of these regulations through the terms of its product supply contracts. However, legislation that limits GHG emissions may impact growth by increasing capital, compliance, operating and maintenance costs and/or decreasing demand. To manage business risks from current and potential GHG emission regulation as well as physical consequences of climate change, Linde actively monitors current developments, evaluates the direct and indirect business risks, and takes appropriate actions. Among others, actions include: increasing relevant resources and training; maintaining contingency plans; obtaining advice and counsel from expert vendors, insurance providers and industry experts; incorporating GHG provisions in commercial agreements; and conducting regular reviews of the business risks with management. Although there are considerable uncertainties, Linde believes that the business risk from potential regulations can be effectively managed through its commercial contracts. Additionally, Linde does not anticipate any material effects regarding its plant operations or business arising from potential physical risks of climate change. Linde continuously seeks opportunities to optimize energy use and GHG emissions through research and development in customer applications and rigorous operational energy efficiency, sourcing renewable energy, and purchasing hydrogen as a chemical byproduct where feasible. Linde tracks GHG emission performance versus targets and reports regularly to business management and annually to Linde's Board of Directors. Effective November 2021, a new Sustainability Committee was created. The Committee is responsible for Board oversight of the Company's programs, policies and strategies related to environmental matters generally, including climate change, greenhouse gas reduction goals and decarbonization solutions, such as clean hydrogen and carbon capture. At the same time, external factors may provide Linde with future business opportunities. Examples of such factors include governmental regulation of GHG and other emissions; uncertain costs of energy and certain natural resources; the development of renewable energy alternatives; and new technologies that help extract natural gas, improve air quality, increase energy efficiency and mitigate the impacts of climate change. Linde continues to develop new applications that can lower emissions and help customers lower energy consumption and increase product throughput. Stricter regulation of water quality in emerging economies such as China provide a growing market for a number of gases, e.g., oxygen for wastewater treatment. Increased concern about drought in areas such as California and Australia may create additional markets for carbon dioxide for desalination. Renewable fuel standards in the European Union and U.S. can create a market for second-generation biofuels which use industrial gases such as oxygen, carbon dioxide, and hydrogen. Costs Relating to the Protection of the Environment Environmental protection costs in 2021 were not significant. Linde anticipates that future annual environmental protection expenditures will be similar to 2021, subject to any significant changes in existing laws and regulations. Based on historical results and current estimates, management does not believe that environmental expenditures will have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial position, the consolidated results of operations or cash flows in any given year. Legal Proceedings See Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements for information concerning legal proceedings. Retirement Benefits Pensions The net periodic benefit cost (benefit) for the U.S. and non-U.S. pension plans was a benefit of $35 million and $28 million  in 2021 and 2020, respectively, and costs of $107 million in 2019. 2019 net periodic pension cost included pension settlement charges of $97 million related to lump sum payments, which were triggered by either a change in control provision or merger-related divestitures, and a net curtailment charge of $8 million for termination benefits, primarily in connection with a defined benefit pension plan freeze. Settlement charges were $4 million and $6 million for 2021 and 2020, respectively. The funded status (pension benefit obligation ("PBO") less the fair value of plan assets) for the U.S. plans was a deficit of $135 million and $436 million at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. The funded status for non-U.S. plans was a deficit of $1,409 million and $2,334 million at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Both the U.S. and non-U.S. 25 plans derived the benefit from the actual return on plan assets, as well as favorability generated from a lower PBO due to an increase in discount rates. Global pension contributions were $42 million in 2021, $91 million in 2020, and $94 million in 2019. At a minimum, Linde contributes to its pension plans to comply with local regulatory requirements (e.g., ERISA in the U.S.). Discretionary contributions in excess of the local minimum requirements are made based on many factors, including long-term projections of the plans' funded status, the economic environment, potential risk of overfunding, pension insurance costs and alternative uses of cash. Changes to these factors can impact the timing of discretionary contributions from year to year. Estimated required contributions for 2021 are currently expected to be in the range of  $40 million to $50 million. Linde assumes expected returns on plan assets for 2022 of 7.00% and 5.54% f or the U.S. and non-U.S. plans, respectively, which are consistent with the long-term expected returns on its investment portfolios. Excluding the impact of any settlements, 2022 consolidated pension expense is expected to be a benefit of approximately $91 million . Th e benefit derived from the expected return on assets assumption for Linde's most significant plans is anticipated to more than offset the expense from service and interest cost accruals and the higher amortization of deferred losses. Refer to the Critical Accounting Policies section and Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements for a more detailed discussion of the company’s retirement benefits, including a description of the various retirement plans and the assumptions used in the calculation of net periodic benefit cost (benefit) and funded status. Insurance Linde purchases insurance to limit a variety of property and casualty risks, including those related to property, business interruption, third-party liability and workers’ compensation. Currently, the company self retains up to $10 million per occurrence for vehicle liability in the United States, $5 million per occurrence for workers' compensation and general liability. In addition, the company self retains risk up to €5 million at its various properties worldwide for property damage resulting from fire, flood and other perils affecting its properties along with a separate €5 million deductible on all business interruption resulting from a major peril loss. To mitigate its aggregate loss potential above these retentions, the company purchases catastrophic insurance coverage from highly rated insurance companies. The company does not currently operate or participate in any captive insurance companies or other non-traditional risk transfer alternatives. At December 31, 2021 and 2020, the company had recorded a total of $75 million and $71 million, respectively, representing an estimate of the retained liability for the ultimate cost of claims incurred and unpaid as of the balance sheet dates. The estimated liability is established using statistical analysis and is based upon historical experience, actuarial assumptions and professional judgment. These estimates are subject to the effects of trends in loss severity and frequency and are subject to a significant degree of inherent variability. If actual claims differ from the company’s estimates, they will be adjusted at that time and financial results could be impacted. Linde recognizes estimated insurance proceeds relating to damages at the time of loss only to the extent of incurred losses. Any insurance recoveries for business interruption and for property damages in excess of the net book value of the property are recognized only when realized or pending payments confirmed by its insurance companies. 26 SEGMENT DISCUSSION Linde’s operations consist of two major product lines: industrial gases and engineering. As further described in the following paragraph, Linde’s industrial gases operations are managed on a geographic basis, which represents three of the company's reportable segments - Americas, EMEA (Europe/Middle East/Africa), and APAC (Asia/South Pacific); a fourth reportable segment which represents the company's Engineering business which designs and manufactures equipment for air separation and other industrial gas applications specifically for end customers and is managed on a worldwide basis operating in all geographic segments.  Other consists of corporate costs and a few smaller businesses which individually do not meet the quantitative thresholds for separate presentation. The industrial gases product line centers on the manufacturing and distribution of atmospheric gases (oxygen, nitrogen, argon, rare gases) and process gases (carbon dioxide, helium, hydrogen, electronic gases, specialty gases, acetylene). Many of these products are co-products of the same manufacturing process. Linde manufactures and distributes nearly all of its products and manages its customer relationships on a regional basis. Linde’s industrial gases are distributed to various end-markets within a regional segment through one of three basic distribution methods: on-site or tonnage; merchant or bulk; and packaged or cylinder gases. The distribution methods are generally integrated in order to best meet the customer’s needs and very few of its products can be economically transported outside of a region. Therefore, the distribution economics are specific to the various geographies in which the company operates and are consistent with how management assesses performance. The company’s measure of profit/loss for segment reporting purposes is segment operating profit. Segment operating profit is defined as operating profit excluding purchase accounting impacts of the Linde AG merger, intercompany royalties, and items not indicative of ongoing business trends.  This is the manner in which the company’s Chief Operating Decision Maker ("CODM") assesses performance and allocates resources. The table below presents sales and operating profit information about reportable segments and Other for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020. 27 Americas The Americas segment includes Linde’s industrial gases operations in approximately 20 countries including the United States, Canada, Mexico and Brazil. Sales Sales for the Americas segment increased $1,644 million, or 16%, in 2021 versus 2020. Higher pricing contributed 3% to sales. Higher volumes increased sales by  9%, led by higher demand across all end markets and project start-ups.  Currency translation increased sales by 1%, primarily driven by the strengthening of the Canadian dollar and Mexican peso against the U.S. Dollar. Cost past-through increased sales by 3% with minimal impact on operating profit. Operating Profit Operating profit in the Americas segment increased $595 million, or 21%, in 2021 versus 2020. Operating profit increased due primarily to higher pricing and volumes and continued productivity initiatives. EMEA 28 The EMEA segment includes Linde's industrial gases operations in approximately 45 European, Middle Eastern and African countries including Germany, France, Sweden, the Republic of South Africa, and the U.K. Sales EMEA segment sales increased $1,194 million, or 19%, in 2021 versus 2020. Volumes increased  5% driven by increased demand across all end markets. Currency translation increased sales by 5%  due to the strengthening of the Euro, British pound and Swedish Krona against the U.S. dollar.  Higher price contributed 4% to sales. Cost pass-through, representing the contractual billing of energy cost variances primarily to onsite customers increased sales by 6% with minimal impact on operating profit. Sales decreased 1% related to the divestiture of a non-core business in Scandinavia. Operating Profit Operating Profit for the EMEA segment increased $424 million, or 29%, in 2021 versus 2020 driven primarily by higher price and volumes and continued productivity initiatives. APAC The APAC segment includes Linde's industrial gases operations in approximately 20 Asian and South Pacific countries and regions including China, Australia, India and South Korea. Sales Sales for the APAC segment increased $446 million, or 8%, in 2021 versus 2020. Volumes increased 11% driven by increased demand across all end markets, led by cyclical end markets and electronics and project start-us. Higher price increased sales by 2%. Currency translation increased sales by 5% driven primarily by the strengthening of the Chinese yuan, Australian dollar and Korean won against the U.S. dollar.  Cost pass-through increased sales by 2% with minimal impact on operating profit.  Divestitures decreased sales by 12% primarily due to the deconsolidation of a joint venture with operations in Taiwan which decreased sales by $639 million (See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements). Operating Profit Operating profit in the APAC segment increased $225 million, or 18%, in 2021 versus 2020. Higher volumes and  price, and continued productivity initiatives were partially offset by a $126 million reduction due to the deconsolidation of the joint venture with operations in Taiwan. 29 Engineering Sales Engineering segment sales increased $16 million, or 1%, in 2021 versus 2020, driven by project timing, partially offset by currency impacts which increased sales by 4% . Operating profit Engineering segment operating profit increased $38 million, or 9%, in 2021 versus 2020 driven primarily by currency, favorable cost performance and project timing. Other Other consists of corporate costs and a few smaller businesses including: Surface Technologies, GIST, and global helium wholesale; which individually do not meet the quantitative thresholds for separate presentation. 30 Sales Sales for Other increased $250 million, or 14%, in 2021 versus 2020. Higher volumes and price increased sales by 11%. Currency translation increased sales 3%. Operating profit Operating profit in Other increased $97 million, or 63%, in 2021 versus 2020, due primarily to volume growth, higher price and continued productivity initiatives. Currency The results of Linde’s non-U.S. operations are translated to the company’s reporting currency, the U.S. dollar, from the functional currencies used in the countries in which the company operates. For most foreign operations, Linde uses the local currency as its functional currency. There is inherent variability and unpredictability in the relationship of these functional currencies to the U.S. dollar and such currency movements may materially impact Linde’s results of operations in any given period. To help understand the reported results, the following is a summary of the significant currencies underlying Linde’s consolidated results and the exchange rates used to translate the financial statements (rates of exchange expressed in units of local currency per U.S. dollar): 31 LIQUIDITY, CAPITAL RESOURCES AND OTHER FINANCIAL DATA ____________________ (a) See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements. Cash decreased $931 million in 2021 versus 2020. The primary sources of cash in 2021 were cash flows from operations of $9,725 million. The primary uses of cash included capital expenditures of $3,086 million, net purchases of ordinary shares of $4,562 million, and cash dividends to shareholders of $2,189 million. Cash Flows From Operations 2021 compared with 2020 Cash flows from operations was $9,725 million, an increase of  $2,296 million, or 31% from 2020. The increase was driven by higher net income adjusted for non-cash charges and lower working capital requirements, including an increase in contract liabilities due to engineering customer advanced payments, which more than offset higher cash taxes. Cost reduction programs and other charges, net of payments was $98 million and $258 million for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively, representing charges of $273 million and $506 million net of related cash outflows of $175 million and $248 million, respectively, in each period. 32 Investing 2021 compared with 2020 Net cash used for investing activities was $3,007 million in 2021 compared to $2,986 million in 2020. The increase was primarily driven by lower proceeds from divestitures in 2021, largely offset by lower capital expenditures. Capital expenditures in 2021 were $3,086 million, a decrease of $314 million from 2020. Capital expenditures during 2021 related primarily to investments in new plant and production equipment for growth. Approximately 42% of the capital expenditures were in the Americas segment with 32% in the APAC segment and the rest primarily in the EMEA segment. At December 31, 2021 , Linde's sale of gas backlog of large projects under construction was approximately $3.5 billion. This represents the total estimated capital cost of large plants under construction. Acquisition expenditures in 2021 were $88 million, an increase of $20 million from 2020 and related primarily to acquisitions in the Americas and EMEA. Acquisitions for the year ended December 31, 2020 were $68 million and related to acquisitions in the Americas and APAC. Divestitures and asset sales in 2021 totaled $167 million as compared to $482 million in 2020. The 2020 period includes net proceeds from merger-related divestitures of $98 million from the sale of selected assets of Linde China and proceeds of approximately $130 million related to the divestiture of a non-core business in Scandinavia. Financing Linde’s financing strategy is to secure long-term committed funding by issuing public notes and debentures and commercial paper backed by a long-term bank credit agreement. Linde’s international operations are funded through a combination of local borrowing and intercompany funding to minimize the total cost of funds and to manage and centralize currency exchange exposures. As deemed necessary, Linde manages its exposure to interest-rate changes through the use of financial derivatives (see Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements and Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk). Cash used for financing activities was $7,588 million in 2021 compared to $3,345 million in 2020. Cash used for debt was $514 million in 2021 versus cash provided by debt of $1,313 million in 2020 primarily due to lower proceeds from debt issuances and decreased commercial paper borrowings, partially offset by lower debt repayments. Net purchases of ordinary shares were $4,562 million in 2021 versus $2,410 million in 2020. Cash dividends increased to $2,189 million in 2021 versus $2,028 million in 2020 driven primarily by a 10% increase in dividends per share from $3.852 per share to $4.24 per share. Cash used for Noncontrolling interest transactions and other was $323 million for the year ended December 31, 2021 versus cash used of $220 million for the respective 2020 period primarily due to the settlement of the buyout of minority interests in the Republic of South Africa in January of 2021. The company believes that it has sufficient operating flexibility, cash reserves, and funding sources to maintain adequate amounts of liquidity to meet its business needs around the world. At December 31, 2021, Linde's credit ratings as reported by Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s were A-1 and P-1 for short-term debt, respectively, and A and A2 for long-term debt, respectively. Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements includes information with respect to the company’s debt activity in 2021, current debt position, debt covenants and the available credit facilities; and Note 12 includes information relating to derivative financial instruments. Linde's credit facilities are with major financial institutions and are non-cancelable until maturity. Therefore, the company believes the risk of the financial institutions being unable to make required loans under the credit facilities, if requested, to be low. Linde’s major bank credit and long-term debt agreements contain standard covenants. The company was in compliance with these covenants at December 31, 2021 and expects to remain in compliance for the foreseeable future. The company maintains a $5 billion unsecured and undrawn revolving credit agreement with no associated financial covenants. No borrowings were outstanding under the credit agreement as of December 31, 2021. The company does not anticipate any limitations on its ability to access the debt capital markets and/or other external funding sources and remains committed to its strong ratings from Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s. Linde’s total net debt outstanding at December 31, 2021 was $11,384 million, $1,016 million lower than $12,400 million at December 31, 2020. The December 31, 2021 net debt balance includes $13,069 million in public securities, $1,138 million representing primarily worldwide bank borrowings, net of $2,823 million of cash. Linde’s global effective borrowing rate was approximately 1.4% for 2021. 33 In June 2021, Linde repaid €600 million of 3.875% notes that became due. In September 2021, Linde issued €700 million of 0.000% notes due 2026, €500 million of 0.375% notes due 2033, and €700 million of 1.000% notes due 2051. In November 2021, Linde repaid $600 million of 2.45% notes that were due in 2022. There was no impact to interest within the consolidated statements of income (see Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements). In January 2022, Linde repaid €1.0 billion of 0.250% notes that became due in 2022. On February 28, 2022, the company’s Board of Directors approved the additional repurchase of $10.0 billion of its ordinary shares. For additional information related to the share repurchase programs, see Part II Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS As discussed in Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements, at December 31, 2021, Linde had undrawn outstanding letters of credit, bank guarantees and surety bonds entered into in connection with normal business operations and they are not reasonably likely to have a material impact on Linde’s consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or liquidity. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES The policies discussed below are considered by management to be critical to understanding Linde’s financial statements and accompanying notes prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("U.S. GAAP"). Their application places significant importance on management’s judgment as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. Linde’s financial position, results of operations and cash flows could be materially affected if actual results differ from estimates made. These policies are determined by management and have been reviewed by Linde’s Audit Committee. Revenue Recognition Long-Term Construction Contracts The company designs and manufactures equipment for air separation and other varied gas production and processing plants manufactured specifically for end customers.  Revenues for sale of equipment contracts are generally recognized over time as Linde has an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date and performance does not create an asset with alternative use. For contracts recognized over time, revenue is recognized primarily using a cost incurred input method.    Costs incurred to date relative to total estimated costs at completion are used to measure progress toward satisfying performance obligations. The result is applied to total expected revenue and results in financial statement recognition of revenue in addition to costs incurred to date. Any expected loss on a contract is recognized as an expense immediately.  Contract modifications are typically accounted for as part of the existing contract and are recognized as a cumulative adjustment for the inception-to-date effect of such change. We assess performance as progress towards completion is achieved on specific projects, earnings will be impacted by changes to our forecast of revenues and costs on these projects. The cost incurred input method places considerable importance on accurate estimates of the extent of progress towards completion and may involve estimates on the scope of deliveries and services required to fulfill the contractually defined obligations.  The key source of estimation uncertainty is the total estimated costs at completion including material, labor and overhead costs and the resultant state of completion of the contracts. There are inherent uncertainties associated with the estimation process, including technical complexity, duration of construction cycle, potential cost inflation (whether equipment or manpower), and scope considerations all of which may affect the total estimation process. Changes in these estimates may lead to a significant impact on future financial statements. Pension Benefits Pension benefits represent financial obligations that will be ultimately settled in the future with employees who meet eligibility requirements. Because of the uncertainties involved in estimating the timing and amount of future payments, significant estimates are required to calculate pension expense and liabilities related to the company’s plans. The company utilizes the services of independent actuaries, whose models are used to facilitate these calculations. Several key assumptions are used in actuarial models to calculate pension expense and liability amounts recorded in the financial statements. Management believes the three most significant variables in the models are the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, the discount rate, and the expected rate of compensation increase. The actuarial models also use assumptions for various other factors, including long-term inflation rates, employee turnover, retirement age, and 34 mortality. Linde management believes the assumptions used in the actuarial calculations are reasonable, reflect the company’s experience and expectations for the future and are within accepted practices in each of the respective geographic locations in which it operates. Actual results in any given year will often differ from actuarial assumptions because of economic and other factors. The sensitivities to each of the key assumptions presented below exclude the impact of special items that occurred during the year. The weighted-average expected long-term rates of return on pension plan assets were 7.00% for U.S. plans and 5.28% for non-U.S. plans for the year ended December 31, 2021 (7.00% and 5.31%, respectively at December 31, 2020). The expected long-term rate of return on the U.S. and Non-U.S. plan assets is estimated based on the plans' investment strategy and asset allocation, historical capita l market performance and, to a lesser extent, historical plan performance. A 0.50% change in these expected long-term rates of return, with all other variables held constant, would change Linde’s pension expense by approximately $46 million. The company has consistently used a market-related value of assets rather than the fair value at the measurement date to determine annual pension expense. The market-related value recognizes investment gains or losses over a five-year period. As a result, changes in the fair value of assets from year to year are not immediately reflected in the company’s annual pension expense. Instead, annual pension expense in future periods will be impacted as deferred investment gains or losses are r ecognized in the market-related value of assets over the five-year period. The consolidated market-related value of assets was $9,612 million, or $804 million lower than the fair value of assets of $10,416 million at December 31, 2021. These net deferred investment losses of $804 million wil l be recognized in the calculation of the market-related value of assets ratably over the next four years and will impact future pension expense. Future actual investment gains or losses will impact the market-related value of assets and, therefore, will impact future annual pension expense in a similar manner. Discount rates are used to calculate the present value of plan liabilities and pension costs and are determined annually by management. The company measures the service and interest cost components of pension and OPEB expense for significant U.S. and non-U.S. plans using the spot rate approach. U.S. plans that do not use the spot rate approach continue to determine discount rates by using a cash flow matching model provided by the company's independent actuaries. The model includes a portfolio of corporate bonds graded Aa or better by at least half of the ratings agencies and matches the U.S. plans' projected cash flows to the calculated spot rates. Discount rates for the remaining Non-U.S. plans are based on market yields for high-quality fixed income investments representing the approximate duration of the pension liabilities on the measurement date. Refer to Note 16 to the consolidated financial stat ements for a summary of the discount rates used to calculate plan liabilities and benefit costs, and to the Retirement Benefits section of the Consolidated Results and Other Information section of this MD&A for a further discussion of 2021 benefit costs. A 0.50% reduction in discount rates, with all other variables held constant, would increase Linde’s pension expense by approximately $52 million whereas a 0.50% increase in discount rates would result in a decrease of $47 million. A 0.50% reduction in discount rates would increase the PBO by approximately $951 million whereas a 0.50% increase in discount rates would have a favorable impact to the PBO of approximately $841 million. The weighted-average expected rate of compensation increase was 3.25% for U.S. plans and 2.55% for non-U.S. plans at December 31, 2021 (3.25% and 2.55%, respectively, at December 31, 2020). The estimated annual compensation increase is determined by management every year and is based on historical trends and market indices. A 0.50% change in the expected rate of compensation increase, with all other variables held constant, would change Linde’s pension expense by approximately $8 million and would impact the PBO by approximately $54 million. Asset Impairments Goodwill and Other Indefinite-Lived Intangibles Assets At December 31, 2021, the company had goodwill of $27,038 million and $1,813 million of other indefinite-lived intangible assets.  Goodwill represents the aggregate of the excess consideration paid for acquired businesses over the fair value of the net assets acquired.  Indefinite-lived other intangibles relate to the Linde name. The company performs a goodwill impairment test annually or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate that an impairment loss may have been incurred. The impairment tests performed during the fourth quarter of 2021 indicated no impairment.  At December 31, 2021, Linde’s enterprise value was approximately $188 billion (outstanding shares multiplied by the year-end stock price plus net debt, and without any control premium) while its total capital was approximately $57 billion. The impairment test allows an entity to first assess qualitative factors to determine if it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than carrying value.  If it is determined that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than carrying value then the company will estimate and compare the fair value of its reporting units to 35 their carrying value, including goodwill. Reporting units are determined based on one level below the operating segment level. Management believes that the quantitative and qualitative factors used to perform its annual goodwill impairment assessment are appropriate and reasonable.  Although the 2021 assessment indicated that it is more likely than not that the fair value of each reporting unit exceeded its carrying value, changes in circumstances or conditions affecting this analysis could have a significant impact on the fair value determination, which could then result in a material impairment charge to the company's results of operations.  Reporting units with greater concentration of Linde AG assets fair valued during the 2018 Praxair, Inc. and Linde AG merger are at greater risk of impairment in future periods. Other indefinite-lived intangible assets are evaluated for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently if events and circumstances indicate that an impairment loss may have been incurred, and no impairments were indicated. See Notes 9 and 10 to the consolidated financial statements. Long-Lived Assets Long-lived assets, including property, plant and equipment and finite-lived other intangible assets, are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an individual asset or asset group may not be recoverable.  For purposes of this test, asset groups are determined based upon the lowest level for which there are independent and identifiable cash flows.  Based upon Linde's business model an asset group may be a single plant and related assets used to support on-site, merchant and packaged gas customers.  Alternatively, the asset group may be a collection of distribution related assets (cylinders, distribution centers, and stores) or be a pipeline complex which includes multiple interdependent plants and related assets connected by pipelines within a geographic area used to support the same distribution methods. Income Taxes At December 31, 2021, Linde had deferred tax assets of $1,829 million (net of valuation allowances of $235 million), and deferred tax liabilities of $7,826 million. At December 31, 2021, uncertain tax positions totaled $387 million (see Note 1 and Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements). Income tax expense was $1,262 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, or about 24.7% of pre-tax income (see Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information related to taxes). In the preparation of consolidated financial statements, Linde estimates income taxes based on diverse legislative and regulatory structures that exist in various jurisdictions where the company conducts business. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities represent tax benefits or obligations that arise from temporary differences due to differing treatment of certain items for accounting and income tax purposes. Linde evaluates deferred tax assets each period to ensure that estimated future taxable income will be sufficient in character (e.g. capital gain versus ordinary income treatment), amount and timing to result in their recovery. A valuation allowance is established when management determines that it is more likely than not that a deferred tax asset will not be realized to reduce the assets to their realizable value. Considerable judgments are required in establishing deferred tax valuation allowances and in assessing exposures related to tax matters. As events and circumstances change, related reserves and valuation allowances are adjusted to income at that time. Linde’s tax returns are subject to audit and local taxing authorities could challenge the company’s tax positions. The company’s practice is to review tax filing positions by jurisdiction and to record provisions for uncertain income tax positions, including interest and penalties when applicable. Linde believes it records and/or discloses such potential tax liabilities as appropriate and has reasonably estimated its income tax liabilities and recoverable tax assets. If new information becomes available, adjustments are charged or credited against income at that time. Management does not anticipate that such adjustments would have a material adverse effect on the company’s consolidated financial position or liquidity; however, it is possible that the final outcomes could have a material impact on the company’s reported results of operations. Contingencies The company accrues liabilities for non-income tax contingencies when management believes that a loss is probable and the amounts can be reasonably estimated, while contingent gains are recognized only when realized or realizable. If new information becomes available or losses are sustained in excess of recorded amounts, adjustments are charged against income at that time. Management does not anticipate that in the aggregate such losses would have a material adverse effect on the company’s consolidated financial position or liquidity; however, it is possible that the final outcomes could have a material impact on the company’s reported results of operations. 36 Linde is subject to various claims, legal proceedings and government investigations that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of business. These actions are based upon alleged environmental, tax, antitrust and personal injury claims, among others (see Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements). Such contingencies are significant and the accounting requires considerable management judgments in analyzing each matter to assess the likely outcome and the need for establishing appropriate liabilities and providing adequate disclosures. Linde believes it records and/or discloses such contingencies as appropriate and has reasonably estimated its liabilities. NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS See Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements for information concerning new accounting standards and the impact of the implementation of these standards on the company’s financial statements. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS Linde does not expect changes in the aggregate fair value of its financial assets and liabilities to have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements. See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements. 37 NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES The following non-GAAP measures are intended to supplement investors’ understanding of the company’s financial information by providing measures which investors, financial analysts and management use to help evaluate the company’s financial leverage and operating performance. Special items which the company does not believe to be indicative of on-going business performance are excluded from these calculations so that investors can better evaluate and analyze historical and future business trends on a consistent basis. Definitions of these non-GAAP measures may not be comparable to similar definitions used by other companies and are not a substitute for similar GAAP measures. The non-GAAP measures in the following reconciliations are presented in this MD&A. Adjusted Amounts 38 39 40 Net Debt and Adjusted Net Debt Net debt is a financial liquidity measure used by investors, financial analysts and management to evaluate the ability of a company to repay its debt.  Purchase accounting impacts have been excluded as they are non-cash and do not have an impact on liquidity. 41 SUPPLEMENTAL GUARANTEE INFORMATION On June 6, 2020, the company filed a Form S-3 Registration Statement with the SEC (the "Registration Statement"). Linde plc may offer debt securities, preferred shares, depositary shares and ordinary shares under the Registration Statement, and debt securities exchangeable for or convertible into preferred shares, ordinary shares or other debt securities. Debt securities of Linde plc may be guaranteed by Linde Inc. (previously Praxair, Inc.) and/or Linde GmbH (previously Linde AG). Linde plc may provide guarantees of debt securities offered by its wholly owned subsidiaries Linde Inc. or Linde Finance under the Registration Statement. Linde Inc. is a wholly owned subsidiary of Linde plc. Linde Inc. may offer debt securities under the Registration Statement. Debt securities of Linde Inc. will be guaranteed by Linde plc, and such guarantees by Linde plc may be guaranteed by Linde GmbH. Linde Inc. may also provide (i) guarantees of debt securities offered by Linde plc under the Registration Statement and (ii) guarantees of the guarantees provided by Linde plc of debt securities of Linde Finance offered under the Registration Statement. Linde Finance B.V. is a wholly owned subsidiary of Linde plc. Linde Finance may offer debt securities under the Registration Statement. Linde plc will guarantee debt securities of Linde Finance offered under the Registration Statement. Linde GmbH and Linde Inc. may guarantee Linde plc’s obligations under its downstream guarantee. Linde GmbH is a wholly owned subsidiary of Linde plc. Linde GmbH may provide (i) guarantees of debt securities offered by Linde plc under the Registration Statement and (ii) upstream guarantees of downstream guarantees provided by Linde plc of debt securities of Linde Inc. or Linde Finance offered under the Registration Statement. In September 2019, Linde plc provided downstream guarantees of all of the pre-business combination Linde Inc. and Linde Finance notes, and Linde GmbH and Linde Inc., respectively, provided upstream guarantees of Linde plc’s downstream guarantees. For further information about the guarantees of the debt securities registered under the Registration Statement (including the ranking of such guarantees, limitations on enforceability of such guarantees and the circumstances under which such guarantees may be released), see “Description of Debt Securities – Guarantees” and “Description of Debt Securities – Ranking” in the Registration Statement, which subsections are incorporated herein by reference. The following tables present summarized financial information for Linde plc, Linde Inc., Linde GmbH and Linde Finance on a combined basis, after eliminating intercompany transactions and balances between them and excluding investments in and equity in earnings from non-guarantor subsidiaries. 42 43