********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

The following risk factors and other information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K should be carefully considered. The occurrence of any of the following risks or of unknown risks and uncertainties may adversely affect our business, operating results and financial condition. For a summary of risk factors refer to "Special Note on Forward-Looking Statements" in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Risks Relating to Our Business Our operating results and financial condition have been and will likely continue to be adversely affected by the COVID-19 pandemic and could be adversely affected by other public health emergencies. The COVID-19 pandemic resulted in additional risks that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and/or cash flows. Efforts to combat the virus have been complicated by viral variants and uneven access to, and acceptance and effectiveness of, vaccines globally. The pandemic resulted in governments and other authorities implementing numerous measures to try to contain the virus, such as travel bans and restrictions, quarantines, shelter in place orders, and business closures. These measures have impacted and may continue to impact our workforce and operations and the operations of our customers and suppliers. These measures also resulted in a reduction in miles driven. As a result, we have experienced and may continue to experience unpredictable reductions in demand for our products. We were permitted to operate in most of the jurisdictions we serve, including in jurisdictions that mandated the closure of certain businesses. However, there is no assurance that we will be permitted to continue operations under future government orders or other restrictions, and although certain restrictions related to the COVID-19 pandemic have eased, uncertainty continues to exist regarding such measures and potential future measures. Continued uncertainties related to the magnitude, duration, and persistent effects of the COVID-19 pandemic may significantly adversely affect our business. These uncertainties include, among other things: the duration and impact of the resurgence in COVID-19 cases; the emergence, contagiousness, and threat of new and different strains of virus; the availability, acceptance, and effectiveness of vaccines; additional closures or other actions as mandated or otherwise made necessary by governmental authorities, including employee vaccine mandates; disruptions in the supply chain, including those caused by industry capacity constraints, material availability, and global logistics delays and constraints arising from, among other things, the transportation capacity of ocean shipping containers, and a prolonged delay in resumption of operations by one or more key suppliers, or the 17 failure of any key supplier; an increasingly competitive labor market due to a sustained labor shortage or increased turnover caused by the COVID-19 pandemic; our ability to meet commitments to customers on a timely basis as a result of increased costs and supply and transportation challenges; increased logistics costs; additional operating costs due to continued remote working arrangements, adherence to social distancing guidelines, and other COVID-19 related challenges; increased risk of cyberattacks on network connections used in remote working arrangements; absence of employees due to illness; and the impact of the pandemic on our customers and suppliers. We have developed and implemented business continuity plans and health and safety protocols in an effort to mitigate the negative impacts we have experienced related to COVID-19 to our employees and our business. An inability to respond to the ever changing impacts of COVID-19 to our employees and business could negatively impact our financial results. In addition, even if the adverse effects of the COVID-19 pandemic subside, there is the possibility of the emergence of a different pandemic or health emergency with similar economic disruptions. These factors, and others that are currently unknown or considered immaterial, could materially and adversely affect the Company’s business, liquidity, results of operations, and financial position. Our operating results and financial condition have been and could continue to be adversely affected by the economic, political and social conditions in the U.S., Europe and elsewhere, as well as the economic health of vehicle owners and numbers and types of vehicles sold. Changes in economic, political and social conditions in the U.S., Europe and other countries in which we are located or do business could have a material effect on our company. Negative effects to our supply chain, costs of doing business, sales and distribution activity may occur due to factors such as war or threats of war, natural disasters, nuclear facility accidents, public health emergencies, utility interruptions, terrorism and social unrest. Our business is also affected by a number of other factors. For example, the number and types of new vehicles produced and sold by manufacturers affects our business. A decrease in the number of vehicles on the road may result in a decrease in repairs. Our sales are also impacted by changes to the economic health of vehicle owners. The economic health of vehicle owners is affected by many factors, including, among others, general business conditions, interest rates, inflation, consumer debt levels, the availability of consumer credit, taxation, fuel prices, unemployment trends and other matters that influence consumer confidence and spending. Many of these factors are outside of our control. If inflationary pressures or any of these other conditions worsen, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. In addition, economic conditions, including decreased access to credit, may result in financial difficulties leading to restructurings, bankruptcies, liquidations and other unfavorable events for our customers, suppliers, logistics and other service providers and financial institutions that are counterparties to our credit facilities and hedge transactions. These unfavorable events affecting our business partners could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. We have a substantial business presence in Europe, including a significant presence in the U.K. and the Republic of Ireland (“ROI”). In June 2016, voters in the U.K. decided by referendum to withdraw from the European Union (also known as Brexit). The U.K.’s withdrawal from the European Union became effective on January 31, 2020. The U.K. and the European Union negotiated a Trade and Cooperation Agreement (“TCA”) to govern the new relationship, which became effective on January 1, 2021. Following the adoption of the TCA, duties have increased on some of the products we import into the U.K., and we have observed shipment delays, particularly with respect to the products we supply to our business in the ROI. While the long-term extent and impact of these issues remains unclear at this point, they could have adverse impacts on our business. Notwithstanding the TCA, there continues to be uncertainty regarding the effects of Brexit on our U.K. and European businesses, including with respect to tariffs or trade sanctions on goods moving between the jurisdictions, increased administrative burdens, fluctuations in exchange rates, disruptions in access to markets by U.K. and ROI companies, and disagreements about the interpretation of the TCA. We also have a presence in the Ukraine and are monitoring the political situation there carefully. Additionally, a number of our suppliers are based in China and Taiwan and so increasing strains and any political repercussions may have implications upon our supply chain. The widespread use of social media platforms has increased the speed and scope that information or misinformation about us can be disseminated and could hamper our ability to correct misrepresentations or to otherwise respond effectively to negative publicity. Negative posts about us, our employees, our business practices, or our products or services, whether or not valid, could seriously damage our brands and reputation. 18 We face competition from local, national, international, and internet-based vehicle products providers, and this competition could negatively affect our business. The vehicle replacement products industry and vehicle accessory parts industry are highly competitive and are served by numerous suppliers of OEM, recycled, aftermarket, refurbished and remanufactured products. Within each of these categories of suppliers, there are local owner-operated companies, larger regional suppliers, national and international providers, and internet-based suppliers and distributors. Providers of vehicle replacement and accessory products that have traditionally sold only certain categories of such products may decide to expand their product offerings into other categories of vehicle products, which may further increase competition. Some of our current and potential competitors may have more operational expertise; greater financial, technical, manufacturing, distribution, and other resources; longer operating histories; lower cost structures; and better relationships in the insurance and vehicle repair industries or with consumers, than we do. Business transacted on online marketplaces has been increasing, which presents additional competitive pressures on us; in addition, facilitators of these online marketplaces control access to this channel and may prohibit us from participating. In the U.S. and Europe, local companies have formed cooperative efforts in an attempt to more efficiently compete against us in all aspects of our business. As a result of these factors, our competitors may be able to provide products that we are unable to supply, provide their products at lower costs, or supply products to customers that we are unable to serve. We believe that a majority of collision parts by dollar amount are supplied by OEMs, with the balance being supplied by distributors of alternative aftermarket, recycled, refurbished and remanufactured collision parts like us. The OEMs are therefore able to exert pricing pressure in the marketplace. We compete with the OEMs primarily on price and to a lesser extent on service and quality. Our operations worldwide are dependent upon clear laws and regulation regarding the manufacture of automotive parts in competition with OEM parts. From time to time, the OEMs have engaged in efforts seeking to increase OEM market share and to restrict consumers’ choice to use recycled or aftermarket parts to repair consumers’ vehicles. Examples of these efforts include blocking the use of vehicle telematics by the independent repair industry, demanding that suppliers provide certain parts exclusively to the OEMs, embedding software in certain vehicle parts that prevents them from being recycled and used to repair other vehicles, repair shop certification programs that, in some cases, require the repair shops to use only OEM parts, refusing to sell certain OEM parts unless the buyer is an OEM-certified shop, obtaining patents and trademarks on various subcomponents of vehicles to prohibit the use of an aftermarket part alternative, and price matching and rebate programs on certain aftermarket products. See the risk factor entitled “ Intellectual property claims relating to aftermarket products could adversely affect our business ” for further information about the OEM patents and trademarks. With respect to telematics, vehicles are increasingly being equipped with systems that transmit data to the OEMs wirelessly regarding, among other items, accident incidents, maintenance requirements, location of the vehicle, identification of the closest dealership, and other statistics about the vehicle and its driving history. To the extent that this data is not shared with alternative suppliers, the OEMs will have an advantage with respect to such matters as contacting the vehicle driver, recommending repairs and maintenance, and directing the vehicle owner to an affiliated dealership. The frequency and intensity of these OEM efforts has been increasing over time. The growth and effectiveness of these efforts or the introduction of new ones could have a material adverse impact on our business. We rely upon our customers and insurance companies to promote the usage of alternative parts. Our success depends, in part, on the acceptance and promotion of alternative parts usage by automotive insurance companies and vehicle repair facilities. There can be no assurance that current levels of alternative parts usage will be maintained or will increase in the future. We rely on business relationships with insurance companies. These insurance companies encourage vehicle repair facilities to use products we provide. The business relationships include in some cases participation in aftermarket quality and service assurance programs that may result in a higher usage of our aftermarket products than would be the case without the programs. Our arrangements with these companies may be terminated by them at any time, including in connection with their own business concerns relating to the offering, availability, standards or operations of the aftermarket quality and service assurance programs. We rely on these relationships for sales to some collision repair shops, and a termination of these relationships may result in a loss of sales, which could adversely affect our results of operations. 19 In an Illinois lawsuit involving State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company ("Avery v. State Farm"), a jury decided in October 1999 that State Farm breached certain insurance contracts with its policyholders by using non-OEM replacement products to repair damaged vehicles when use of such products did not restore the vehicle to its "pre-loss condition." The jury found that State Farm misled its customers by not disclosing the use of non-OEM replacement products and the alleged inferiority of those products. Damages in excess of $1 billion were assessed against State Farm. In August 2005, the Illinois Supreme Court reversed the awards made by the lower courts and found, among other things, that the plaintiffs had failed to establish any breach of contract by State Farm. The plaintiffs filed a subsequent claim alleging that State Farm improperly influenced one of the justices on the Illinois Supreme Court. Prior to trial on the subsequent claim, the parties settled the case; as part of the settlement, State Farm paid the plaintiffs $250 million. As a result of this case, some insurance companies reduced or eliminated their use of aftermarket products. Our financial results could be adversely affected if insurance companies modified or terminated the arrangements pursuant to which repair shops buy aftermarket or recycled products from us due to a fear of similar claims. In addition, to the extent that the collision repair industry continues to consolidate, the buying power of collision repair shop customers may further increase, putting additional pressure on our financial returns. Intellectual property claims relating to aftermarket products could adversely affect our business. OEMs and others have attempted to use claims of intellectual property infringement against manufacturers and distributors of aftermarket products to restrict or eliminate the sale of aftermarket products that are the subject of the claims. OEMs have brought such claims in federal court and with the U.S. International Trade Commission. In some cases, we have entered into patent license agreements with OEMs that allow us to sell aftermarket parts that replicate the patented parts in exchange for a royalty and otherwise in accordance with the terms of the agreements. To the extent OEMs and other manufacturers obtain design patents or trademarks and are successful in asserting claims of infringement of these patents or trademarks against us, we could be restricted or prohibited from selling certain aftermarket products, which could have an adverse effect on our business. In the event that our license agreements, or other similar license arrangements with OEMs or others, are terminated or we are unable to agree upon renewal terms, we may be subject to costs and uncertainties of litigation as well as restrictions on our ability to sell aftermarket parts that replicate parts covered by those design patents or trademarks. We have filed, and may file in the future, challenges to OEM patents, including patents owned by OEMs with which we have patent license agreements. We also may file challenges to OEM trademarks. To the extent OEMs are successful in defending their patents or trademarks, we could be restricted or prohibited from selling the corresponding aftermarket products, which could have an adverse effect on our business. Also, we will likely incur expenses investigating, pursuing and defending intellectual property claims. U.S. Customs and Border Protection has taken the position that certain of our aftermarket parts infringe certain OEM trademarks and seized our aftermarket parts as we attempted to import them into the U.S. We have incurred costs and expenses convincing Customs and Border Protection to release the seized goods and in litigation where we sought a determination of non-infringement. In the event Customs and Border Protection seizes our products again in the future, we may be unsuccessful in obtaining their release, and such goods may be subject to forfeiture and other penalties, and we would incur legal fees in contesting those seizures. Aftermarket products certifying organizations may revoke the certification of parts that are the subject of the intellectual property disputes. Lack of certification may negatively impact us because many major insurance companies recommend or require the use of aftermarket products only if they have been certified by an independent certifying organization. If the number of vehicles involved in accidents declines or the number of vehicles being repaired declines, or the mix of the types of vehicles in the overall vehicle population changes, our business could suffer. Our business depends on vehicle accidents, mechanical failures and routine maintenance for both the demand for repairs using our products and the supply of recycled, remanufactured and refurbished parts. To the extent that a relatively higher percentage of damaged vehicles are declared total losses, there will be less demand for our products to repair such vehicles. In addition, our business is impacted by factors that influence the number and/or severity of accidents and mechanical failures including, but not limited to, the number of vehicles on the road, the number of miles driven, the ages of drivers, the occurrence and severity of certain weather conditions, the congestion of traffic, drivers distracted by electronic equipment, the use of alcohol or drugs by drivers, the usage rate and effectiveness of accident avoidance systems in new vehicles, the reliability of new OEM parts, and the condition of roadways. For example, an increase in the acceptance of ride-sharing could reduce the number of vehicles on the road. Additionally, an increase in fuel prices may cause the number of vehicles on the road, the number of miles driven, and the need for mechanical repairs and maintenance to decline, as motorists seek alternative transportation options. Mild weather 20 conditions, particularly during winter months, tend to result in a decrease in vehicle accidents. Moreover, legislation banning the use of handheld cellular telephones or other electronic devices while driving could lead to a decline in accidents. Systems designed to minimize accident frequency and severity are becoming more prevalent and more technologically sophisticated. To the extent OEMs install or are mandated by law to install accident avoidance systems in their vehicles, the number and severity of accidents could decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. The average number of new vehicles sold annually has fluctuated from year-to-year. Periods of decreased sales could result in a reduction in the number of vehicles on the road and consequently fewer vehicles involved in accidents or in need of mechanical repair or maintenance. Substantial declines in automotive sales in the future could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition. In addition, if vehicle population trends result in a disproportionately high number of older vehicles on the road, insurance companies may find it uneconomical to repair such vehicles or there could be less costly repairs. If vehicle population trends result in a disproportionately high number of newer vehicles on the road, the demand generally for mechanical repairs and maintenance would likely decline due to the newer, longer-lasting parts in the vehicle population and mechanical failures being covered by OEM warranties for the first years of a vehicle's life. Moreover, alternative collision and mechanical parts are less likely to be used on newer vehicles. Our Specialty segment depends on sales of pickup trucks, sport utility vehicles, crossover utility vehicles, high performance vehicles and recreational vehicles; any reduction in the number of such vehicles in operation will adversely affect demand for our Specialty products. Electric vehicles do not have traditional engines, transmissions, and certain related parts. Engines and transmissions represent some of our largest revenue generating SKUs in North America, and parts for engines and transmissions represent a significant amount of the revenue of our European operations. Thus, an increase in electric vehicles as a percentage of vehicles sold could have a negative impact on our sales of engines, transmissions, and other related parts. Fluctuations in the prices of metals and other commodities could adversely affect our financial results. Our recycling operations generate scrap metal and precious metals (such as platinum, palladium, and rhodium) as well as other metals that we sell. After we dismantle a salvage vehicle for wholesale parts and after vehicles have been processed in our self service retail business, the remaining vehicle hulks are sold to scrap processors and other remaining metals are sold to processors and brokers of metals. In addition, we receive "crush only" vehicles or vehicles to be further processed from other companies, including OEMs, which we dismantle and which generate scrap metal and other metals, in accordance with the guidelines of our agreements with the providing company. The prices of scrap and other metals have historically fluctuated, sometimes significantly, due to market factors. In addition, buyers may stop purchasing metals entirely due to excess supply. To the extent that the prices of metals decrease materially or buyers stop purchasing metals, our revenue from such sales will suffer and a write-down of our inventory value could be required. The cost of our wholesale recycled and our self service retail inventory purchases will change as a result of fluctuating scrap metal and other metals prices. In a period of falling metal prices, there can be no assurance that our inventory purchasing cost will decrease the same amount or at the same rate as the scrap metal and other metals prices decline, and there may be a delay between the scrap metal and other metals price reductions and any inventory cost reductions. The prices of steel, aluminum, and plastics are components of the cost to manufacture products for our aftermarket business. If the prices of commodities rise and result in higher costs to us for products we sell, we may not be able to pass these higher costs on to our customers. An adverse change in our relationships with our suppliers, disruption to our supply of inventory, or the misconduct, performance failures or negligence of our third party vendors or service providers could increase our expenses, impede our ability to serve our customers, or expose us to liability. Our North American business is dependent on a relatively small number of suppliers of aftermarket products, a large portion of which are sourced from Taiwan. Our European business also acquires products from Asian sources. We incur substantial freight costs to import parts from our suppliers, many of which are located in Asia. The cost of freight and shipping containers has risen in 2021 and if the cost of freight and shipping containers continue to rise, we might not be able to pass the cost increases on to our customers. Furthermore, although alternative suppliers exist for substantially all aftermarket products distributed by us, the loss of any one supplier could have a material adverse effect on us until alternative suppliers are located and have commenced manufacturing and providing the relevant products. In addition, we are subject to disruptions from work stoppages and other labor disputes at port facilities through which we import our inventory. We also face the risk that our suppliers could attempt to circumvent us and sell their product directly to our customers; consolidation of our suppliers could enhance their ability to distribute products through additional sales channels and thus decrease their reliance on wholesale distributors like us. 21 Moreover, our operations are subject to the customary risks of doing business abroad, including, among other things, natural disasters, transportation costs and delays, political instability, currency fluctuations and the imposition of tariffs, import and export controls and other non-tariff barriers (including changes in the allocation of quotas), as well as the uncertainty regarding future relations between China, Japan and Taiwan. For example, U.S. Customs and Border Protection have used claims of intellectual property infringement to seize certain of our aftermarket parts as we attempted to import them into the U.S. Because a substantial volume of our sales involves products manufactured from sheet metal, we can be adversely impacted if sheet metal becomes unavailable or is only available at higher prices, which we may not be able to pass on to our customers. Additionally, as OEMs convert to raw materials other than steel, it may be more difficult or expensive to source aftermarket parts made with such materials, and it may be more difficult for repair shops to work with such materials in the repair process. Most of our salvage and a portion of our self service inventory is obtained from vehicles offered at salvage auctions operated by several companies that own auction facilities in numerous locations across the U.S. We do not typically have contracts with the auction companies. According to industry analysts, a small number of companies control a large percentage of the salvage auction market in the U.S. If an auction company prohibited us from participating in its auctions, began competing with us, or significantly raised its fees, our business could be adversely affected through higher costs or the resulting potential inability to service our customers. Moreover, we face competition in the purchase of vehicles from direct competitors, rebuilders, exporters and other bidders. To the extent that the number of bidders increases, it may have the effect of increasing our cost of goods sold for wholesale recycled products. Some states regulate bidders to help ensure that salvage vehicles are purchased for legal purposes by qualified buyers. Auction companies have been actively seeking to reduce, circumvent or eliminate these regulations, which would further increase the number of bidders. In addition, there is a limited supply of salvage vehicles in the U.S., and thus the costs to us of these vehicles could increase over time. In some states, when a vehicle is deemed a total loss, a salvage title is issued. Whether states issue salvage titles is important to the supply of inventory for the vehicle recycling industry because an increase in vehicles that qualify as salvage vehicles provides greater availability and typically lowers the price of such vehicles. Currently, these titling issues are a matter of state law. In 1992, the U.S. Congress commissioned an advisory committee to study problems relating to vehicle titling, registration, and salvage. Since then, legislation has been introduced seeking to establish national uniform requirements in this area, including a uniform definition of a salvage vehicle. The vehicle recycling industry will generally favor a uniform definition, since it will avoid inconsistencies across state lines, and will generally favor a definition that expands the number of damaged vehicles that qualify as salvage. However, certain interest groups, including repair shops and some insurance associations, may oppose this type of legislation. National legislation has not yet been enacted in this area, and there can be no assurance that such legislation will be enacted in the future. We also acquire inventory directly from insurance companies, OEMs, and others. To the extent that these suppliers decide to discontinue these arrangements, our business could be adversely affected through higher costs or the resulting potential inability to service our customers. In Europe, we acquire products from a wide variety of suppliers. As vehicle technology changes, some parts will become more complex and the design or technology of those parts may be covered by patents or other rights that make it difficult for manufacturers to supply such aftermarket parts to companies such as ours. The complexity of the parts may include software or other technical aspects that make it difficult to identify what is wrong with the vehicle. More complex parts may be difficult to repair and may require expensive or difficult to obtain software updates, limiting our ability to compete with the OEMs. We rely on third parties to provide products and services that are integral to our operations. If we fail to adequately assess, monitor and regulate the performance of our third party vendors and service providers, we could be subject to additional risk caused by the misconduct, performance failures or negligence of these third parties. For example, these could include violations of, or noncompliance with, laws and/or regulations governing our business (including, but not limited to, bribery, cybersecurity or privacy laws), which could lead to sanctions and/or fines from governmental agencies. Our arrangements with third party vendors and service providers may cause us financial and reputational harm if those third parties fail to satisfy their obligations to us, including their obligations to maintain and protect the security and confidentiality of our information and data or the information and data relating to our customers. See the risk factor entitled “ The costs of complying with the requirements of laws pertaining to the privacy and security of personnel information and the potential liability associated with the failure to comply with such laws could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations ” for further information about the security and confidentiality of our information and data. Further, noncompliance with contract terms by our third party vendors or service providers could expose us to liability to other third parties or our employees. 22 If we determine that our goodwill or other intangible assets have become impaired, we may incur significant charges to our pre-tax income. Goodwill represents the excess of cost over the fair market value of net assets acquired in business combinations. In the future, our goodwill and intangible assets may increase as a result of acquisitions. Goodwill is reviewed at least annually for impairment. Impairment may result from, among other things, deterioration in the performance of acquired businesses, deterioration of expected future cash flows or performance, increases in our cost of capital, adverse market conditions, and adverse changes in applicable laws or regulations, including modifications that restrict the activities of the acquired business. As of December 31, 2021, our total goodwill subject to future impairment testing was $4.5 billion. For further discussion of our annual impairment test, see "Goodwill Impairment" in the Critical Accounting Estimates section of Part II, Item 7 and "Intangible Assets" in Note 3, "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Except for indefinite-lived intangibles, we amortize other intangible assets over the assigned useful lives, each of which is based upon the expected period to be benefited. We review indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually or sooner if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. We review finite-lived intangible assets for possible impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. In the event conditions change that affect our ability to realize the underlying cash flows associated with our intangible assets, we may record an impairment charge. As of December 31, 2021 , the value of our other intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, was $746 million. We could be subject to product liability claims and involved in product recalls. If customers of repair shops that purchase our products are injured or suffer property damage, we could be subject to product liability claims by such customers. The successful assertion of this type of claim could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. In addition, we may become involved in the recall of a product that is determined to be defective. More generally, a recall involving alternative parts, even if we did not sell the recalled products, could adversely affect the perceived quality of alternative parts, leading to decreased usage of alternative parts. The expenses of a recall and the damage to our reputation, or the reputation of alternative parts generally, could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. We have agreed to defend and indemnify in certain circumstances insurance companies and customers against claims and damages relating to product liability and product recalls. The existence of claims or damages for which we must defend and indemnify these parties could also negatively impact our business, results of operations or financial condition. We may not be able to successfully acquire new businesses or integrate acquisitions, and we may not be able to successfully divest certain businesses. We may not be able to successfully complete potential strategic acquisitions if we cannot reach agreement on acceptable terms, if we do not obtain required antitrust or other regulatory approvals, or for other reasons. Moreover, we may not be able to identify acquisition candidates at reasonable prices and/or be able to successfully integrate acquisitions. If we buy a company or a division of a company, we may experience difficulty integrating that company's or division's personnel and operations, which could negatively affect our operating results. In addition: • the key personnel of the acquired company may decide not to work for us; • customers of the acquired company may decide not to purchase products from us; • suppliers of the acquired company may decide not to sell products to us; • we may experience business disruptions as a result of information technology systems conversions; • we may experience additional financial and accounting challenges and complexities in areas such as tax planning, treasury management, and financial reporting; • we may be held liable for environmental, tax or other risks and liabilities as a result of our acquisitions, some of which we may not have discovered during our due diligence; 23 • we may intentionally assume the liabilities of the companies we acquire, which could result in material adverse effects on our business; • our existing business may be disrupted or receive insufficient management attention; • we may not be able to realize the cost savings or other financial benefits we anticipated, either in the amount or in the time frame that we expect; and • we may incur debt or issue equity securities to pay for any future acquisition, the issuance of which could involve the imposition of restrictive covenants or be dilutive to our existing stockholders. For example, we have undertaken the 1 LKQ Europe program to create structural centralization and standardization of key functions to facilitate the operation of the Europe segment as a single business; this program will present a number of execution challenges. The COVID-19 pandemic impacted certain 1 LKQ Europe initiatives resulting in minor delays in 2020. In addition to acquisitions, we have divested, and will continue to divest, certain businesses, either because they do not meet our performance standards or for other reasons. As a result of a divestment, we may not recover the carrying value of our investment in the divested business; in addition, such divestment transactions require significant management time and attention. Risks Relating to Our Financial Structure We have a substantial amount of indebtedness, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and our ability to obtain financing in the future and to react to changes in our business. As of December 31, 2021, we had approxi mately $1,887 million aggregate principal amount of secured debt outstanding and approximate ly $1,194 million of availability under our credit agreement ($1,263 million of availability reduced by $69 million of amounts outstanding under letters of credit). In addition, we had approximately $853 million aggregate principal amount of unsecured debt outstanding comprised o f €500 million ($569 million) aggregate principal amount of 3.875% senior notes due April 1, 2024 (the "Euro Notes (2024)"), and €250 million ($284 million) of 4.125% senior n otes due 2028 (the "Euro Notes (2028)," and together with the Euro Notes (2024), the "senior notes"). Borrowings under the credit agreement mature in January 2024. Our significant amount of debt and our debt service obligations could limit our ability to satisfy our obligations, limit our ability to operate our business and impair our competitive position. For example, our debt and our debt service obligations could: • increase our vulnerability to adverse economic and general industry conditions, including interest rate fluctuations, because a portion of our borrowings are and will continue to be at variable rates of interest; • require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to payments on our debt, which would reduce the availability of our cash flow from operations to fund working capital, capital expenditures or other general corporate purposes; • limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; • place us at a disadvantage compared to competitors that may have proportionately less debt; • limit our ability to obtain additional debt or equity financing due to applicable financial and restrictive covenants in our debt agreements; and • increase our cost of borrowing. In addition, if we or our subsidiaries incur additional debt, the risks associated with our substantial leverage and the ability to service such debt would increase. 24 Our senior notes do not impose any limitations on our ability to incur additional debt or protect against certain other types of transactions. Although we are subject to our credit agreement for so long as it remains in effect, the indentures governing the senior notes do not restrict the future incurrence of unsecured indebtedness, guarantees or other obligations. The indentures contain certain limitations on our ability to incur liens on assets and engage in sale and leaseback transactions. However, these limitations are subject to important exceptions. In addition, the indentures do not contain many other restrictions, including certain restrictions contained in our credit agreement, including, without limitation, making investments, prepaying subordinated indebtedness or engaging in transactions with our affiliates. Our credit agreement will permit, subject to specified conditions and limitations, the incurrence of a significant amount of additional indebtedness under the existing agreement. As of December 31, 2021, we would have been able to incur an additional $1,194 million of indebtedness under our credit agreement ($1,263 million of availability reduced by $69 million of amounts outstanding under letters of credit). If we or our subsidiaries incur additional debt, the risks associated with our substantial leverage and the need to service such debt would increase. Our credit agreement imposes operating and financial restrictions on us and our subsidiaries, which may prevent us from capitalizing on business opportunities. Our credit agreement imposes operating and financial restrictions on us. These restrictions may limit our ability, among other things, to: • incur, assume or permit to exist additional indebtedness (including guarantees thereof) outside of our credit agreement; • pay dividends or make certain other distributions on our capital stock or repurchase our capital stock or prepay subordinated indebtedness; • incur liens on assets; • make certain investments or other restricted payments; • engage in transactions with affiliates; • sell certain assets or merge or consolidate with or into other companies; • guarantee indebtedness; and • alter the business we conduct. As a result of these covenants and restrictions, we may be limited in how we conduct our business and we may be unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. The terms of any future indebtedness we may incur could include more restrictive covenants. We cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain compliance with these covenants in the future and, if we fail to do so, that we will be able to obtain waivers from the lenders and/or amend the covenants. The failure to comply with any of these covenants would cause a default under the credit agreement. A default, if not waived, could result in acceleration of our debt, in which case the debt would become immediately due and payable. If this occurs, we may not be able to repay our debt or borrow sufficient funds to refinance it. Even if new financing were available, it may be on terms that are less attractive to us than our existing credit facilities or it may be on terms that are not acceptable to us. We may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. Our ability to make scheduled payments on or to refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business and other factors beyond our control. We cannot assure you that we will maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. If our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we may be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures, or to sell assets, seek additional capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. These alternative measures may not be successful and may not permit us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. If our operating results and 25 available cash are insufficient to meet our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and might be required to dispose of material assets or operations to meet our debt service and other obligations. We may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain the proceeds that we hope to realize from them, and these proceeds may not be adequate to meet any debt service obligations then due. Any future refinancing of our indebtedness could be at higher interest rates and may require us to comply with more onerous covenants which could further restrict our business operations. Additionally, our credit agreement and the indentures that govern our senior notes limit the use of the proceeds from certain dispositions of our assets; as a result, our credit agreement and our senior notes may prevent us from using the proceeds from such dispositions to satisfy all of our debt service obligations. Our future capital needs may require that we seek to refinance our debt or obtain additional debt or equity financing, events that could have a negative effect on our business. We may need to raise additional funds in the future to, among other things, refinance existing debt, fund our existing operations, improve or expand our operations, respond to competitive pressures, or make acquisitions. From time to time, we may raise additional funds through public or private financing, strategic alliances, or other arrangements. Funds may not be available or available on terms acceptable to us as a result of different factors, including but not limited to turmoil in the credit markets that results in the tightening of credit conditions and current or future regulations applicable to the financial institutions from which we seek financing. If adequate funds are not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to meet our business or strategic objectives or compete effectively. If we raise additional funds by issuing equity securities, stockholders may experience dilution of their ownership interests, and the newly issued securities may have rights superior to those of our common stock. If we raise additional funds by issuing debt, we may be subject to higher borrowing costs and further limitations on our operations. If we refinance or restructure our debt, we may incur charges to write off the unamortized portion of deferred debt issuance costs from a previous financing, or we may incur charges related to hedge ineffectiveness from our interest rate swap obligations. There are restrictions in the indenture that governs the Euro Notes (2024) and Euro Notes (2028) on our ability to refinance such notes prior to January 1, 2024 and April 1, 2023, respectively. We could refinance the notes through open market purchases, subject to a limitation in our credit agreement on the amount of such purchases. If we fail to raise capital when needed, our business may be negatively affected. Our variable rate indebtedness subjects us to interest rate risk, which could cause our indebtedness service obligations to increase significantly and could affect the value of our senior notes. Certain borrowings under our credit agreement are at variable rates of interest and expose us to interest rate risk. If interest rates increase, our debt service obligations on the variable rate indebtedness would increase even though the amount borrowed remained the same, and our net income and cash flows, including cash available for servicing our indebtedness, would correspondingly decrease. Moreover, changes in market interest rates could affect the trading value of the senior notes. Because of reforms relating to the use of the London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") as a benchmark for establishing the interest rate and the move toward risk free rates, we recently amended our credit facility to provide that loans denominated in euros will use the European Money Markets Institute as a benchmark for establishing the interest rate, swingline and revolving loans denominated in Pound Sterling will use the Sterling Overnight Index Average ("SONIA") and loans denominated in Swiss Francs will use the Swiss Average Rate Overnight as administered by SIX Swiss Exchange AG. We expect to amend our credit facility in the future to incorporate other risk free rates for those loans that still bear interest at LIBOR plus the Applicable Margin as the syndicated loan market continues to transition away from LIBOR. The consequences of a move away from LIBOR cannot be entirely predicted but could result in an increase in the cost of our variable rate debt. Repayment of our indebtedness, including our senior notes, is dependent on cash flow generated by our subsidiaries. We are a holding company and repayment of our senior notes will be dependent upon cash flow generated by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us, by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. Unless they are borrowers or guarantors of the indebtedness, our subsidiaries do not have any obligation to pay amounts due on the indebtedness or to make funds available for that purpose. Our subsidiaries may not be able to, or be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness, including the senior notes. Each of our subsidiaries is a distinct legal entity and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries and, under certain circumstances, distributions from our subsidiaries may be subject to taxes that reduce the amount of such distributions available to us. While the indentures governing the senior notes limit the ability of our subsidiaries to restrict the payment of dividends or to restrict other intercompany payments to us, these limitations are subject to certain qualifications and exceptions. In the event that we do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to make required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness, including the senior notes. 26 A downgrade in our credit rating would impact our cost of capital and could impact the market value of our senior notes. Credit ratings have an important effect on our cost of capital. Credit rating agencies rate our debt securities on factors that include, among other items, our results of operations, business decisions that we make, their view of the general outlook for our industry, and their view of the general outlook for the economy. Actions taken by the rating agencies can include maintaining, upgrading, or downgrading the current rating or placing us on a watch list for possible future downgrading. We believe our current credit ratings enhance our ability to borrow funds at favorable rates. A downgrade in our current credit rating from a rating agency could adversely affect our cost of capital by causing us to pay a higher interest rate on borrowed funds under our credit facilities. A downgrade could also adversely affect the market price and/or liquidity of our senior notes, preventing a holder from selling the senior notes at a favorable price, as well as adversely affecting our ability to issue new notes in the future or incur other indebtedness upon favorable terms. The right to receive payments on the senior notes is effectively junior to those lenders who have a security interest in our assets. Our obligations under our senior notes and our guarantors’ obligations under their guarantees of the senior notes are unsecured, but our and each co-borrower’s obligations under our credit agreement and each guarantor’s obligations under their respective guarantees of the credit agreement are secured by a security interest in substantially all of our domestic tangible and intangible assets, including the stock of most of our wholly-owned United States subsidiaries and the stock of certain of our non-United States subsidiaries. If we are declared bankrupt or insolvent, or if we default under our credit agreement, the lenders could declare all of the funds borrowed thereunder, together with accrued interest, immediately due and payable. If we were unable to repay such indebtedness, the lenders could foreclose on the pledged assets to the exclusion of holders of our senior notes, even if an event of default exists under the applicable indenture governing the senior notes. Furthermore, if the lenders foreclose and sell the pledged equity interests in any subsidiary guarantor under our senior notes, then that guarantor will be released from its guarantee of the senior notes automatically and immediately upon such sale. In any such event, because the senior notes are not secured by any of our assets or the equity interests in subsidiary guarantors, it is possible that there would be no assets remaining from which claims by holders of the senior notes could be satisfied or, if any assets remained, they might be insufficient to satisfy claims fully. As of December 31, 2021, we had approximately $1,887 million aggregate principal amount of secured debt outstanding and approximately $1,194 million of availability under our credit agreement ($1,263 million of availability reduced by $69 million of amounts outstanding under letters of credit). United States federal and state statutes allow courts, under specific circumstances, to void the senior notes and the guarantees, subordinate claims in respect of the senior notes and the guarantees, and require holders of the senior notes to return payments received from us or the guarantors. Our direct and indirect domestic subsidiaries that are obligors under the credit agreement guarantee the obligations under our senior notes. The issuance of our senior notes and the issuance of the guarantees by the guarantors may be subject to review under state and federal laws if a bankruptcy, liquidation or reorganization case or a lawsuit, including in circumstances in which bankruptcy is not involved, were commenced at some future date by, or on behalf of, our unpaid creditors or the unpaid creditors of a guarantor. Under the federal bankruptcy laws of the United States and comparable provisions of state fraudulent transfer laws, a court may avoid or otherwise decline to enforce the senior notes, or a guarantor’s guarantee, or may subordinate the senior notes, or such guarantee, to our or the applicable guarantor’s existing and future indebtedness. While the relevant laws may vary from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, a court might do so if it found that when indebtedness under the senior notes was issued, or when the applicable guarantor entered into its guarantee, or, in some jurisdictions, when payments became due under the senior notes, or such guarantee, the issuer or the applicable guarantor received less than reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration and: • was insolvent or rendered insolvent by reason of such incurrence; • was engaged in a business or transaction for which its remaining assets constituted unreasonably small capital; or • intended to incur, or believed that it would incur, debts beyond its ability to pay such debts as they mature. A court would likely find that we or a guarantor did not receive reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration for the senior notes or such guarantee if we or such guarantor did not substantially benefit directly or indirectly from the issuance of the senior notes. Thus, if the guarantees were legally challenged, any guarantee could be subject to the claim that, since the guarantee was incurred for our benefit, and only indirectly for the benefit of the guarantor, the obligations of the applicable guarantor were incurred for less than reasonably equivalent value or fair consideration. If a court were to void the issuance of the senior notes or any guarantee, a holder of the senior notes would no longer have any claim against us or the applicable 27 guarantor. In the event of a finding that a fraudulent transfer or conveyance occurred, a holder of the senior notes may not receive any repayment on the senior notes. Further, the avoidance of the senior notes could result in an event of default with respect to our and our subsidiaries’ other debt, which could result in acceleration of that debt. The measures of insolvency for purposes of these fraudulent transfer laws vary depending upon the law applied in any proceeding to determine whether a fraudulent transfer has occurred. Generally, however, an issuer or a guarantor, as applicable, would be considered insolvent if: • the sum of its debts, including contingent liabilities, was greater than the fair value of its assets; • the present fair saleable value of its assets was less than the amount that would be required to pay its probable liability on its existing debts, including contingent liabilities, as they become absolute and mature; or • it could not pay its debts as they become due. A court might also void the senior notes, or a guarantee, without regard to the above factors, if the court found that the senior notes were incurred or issued or the applicable guarantor entered into its guarantee with actual intent to hinder, delay or defraud its creditors. We cannot give any assurance as to what standard a court would apply in determining whether we or the guarantors were solvent at the relevant time or that a court would agree with our conclusions in this regard, or, regardless of the standard that a court uses, that it would not determine that we or a guarantor were indeed insolvent on that date; that any payments to the holders of the senior notes (including under the guarantees) did not constitute preferences, fraudulent transfers or conveyances on other grounds; or that the issuance of the senior notes and the guarantees would not be subordinated to our or any guarantor’s other debt. In addition, any payment by us or a guarantor pursuant to the senior notes, or its guarantee, could be avoided and required to be returned to us or such guarantor or to a fund for the benefit of our or such guarantor’s creditors, and accordingly the court might direct holders of the senior notes to repay any amounts already received from us or such guarantor. Among other things, under U.S. bankruptcy law, any payment by us pursuant to the senior notes or by a guarantor under a guarantee made at a time we or such guarantor were found to be insolvent could be voided and required to be returned to us or such guarantor or to a fund for the benefit of our or such guarantor’s creditors if such payment is made to an insider within a one-year period prior to a bankruptcy filing or within 90 days for any outside party and such payment would give such insider or outsider party more than such party would have received in a distribution under the Bankruptcy Code in a hypothetical Chapter 7 case. Although each guarantee contains a “savings clause” intended to limit the subsidiary guarantor’s liability to the maximum amount that it could incur without causing the incurrence of obligations under its subsidiary guarantee to be a fraudulent transfer, this provision may not be effective as a legal matter to protect any subsidiary guarantees from being avoided under fraudulent transfer law. In that regard, in Official Committee of Unsecured Creditors of TOUSA, Inc. v Citicorp North America, Inc ., the United States Bankruptcy Court in the Southern District of Florida held that a savings clause similar to the savings clause included in our indentures was unenforceable. As a result, the subsidiary guarantees were found to be fraudulent conveyances. The United States Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit subsequently affirmed the liability findings of the Bankruptcy Court without ruling directly on the enforceability of savings clauses generally. If the decision of the bankruptcy court in TOUSA were followed by other courts, the risk that the guarantees would be deemed fraudulent conveyances would be significantly increased. To the extent a court avoids the senior notes or any of the guarantees as fraudulent transfers or holds the senior notes or any of the guarantees unenforceable for any other reason, the holders of the senior notes would cease to have any direct claim against us or the applicable guarantor. If a court were to take this action, our or the applicable guarantor’s assets would be applied first to satisfy our or the applicable guarantor’s other liabilities, if any, and might not be applied to the payment of the senior notes. Sufficient funds to repay the senior notes may not be available from other sources, including the remaining guarantors, if any. In addition, the Euro Notes (2024) and the related guarantees may be subject to avoidance under the laws of foreign jurisdictions, including Italy and Czech Republic, to the extent that we, the issuer of the Euro Notes (2024), or any of the guarantors (as applicable) were to be the subject of an insolvency or related proceeding in such jurisdiction(s). Not all of our subsidiaries have guaranteed our credit agreement or our senior notes, and the assets of our non-guarantor subsidiaries may not be available to make payments on such obligations. Not all of our subsidiaries have guaranteed the credit agreement, Euro Notes (2024) and Euro Notes (2028). In the event that any non-guarantor subsidiary becomes insolvent, liquidates, reorganizes, dissolves or otherwise winds up, holders of its indebtedness and its trade creditors generally will be entitled to payment on their claims from the assets of that subsidiary before any of those assets are made available to the lenders under the credit agreement or the holders of the senior notes. Consequently, claims in respect of the credit agreement and the senior notes are structurally subordinated to all of the liabilities of our subsidiaries that are not guarantors of such instruments, including trade payables, and any claims of third party holders of preferred equity interests, if any, in our non-guarantor subsidiaries. As of the most recent practicable date, our subsidiaries that are not borrowers under or do not guarantee the credit agreement represented approx imately 50% and 34% o f our total revenue 28 and operating income, respectively. In addition, these non-guarantor subsidiaries represented approximat ely 53% and 62% of our total assets and total liabilities, respectively (excluding, in each case, intercompany amounts). As of the same date, our subsidiaries that do not guarantee the credit agreement had approximately $2,000 million of outstanding indebtedness (which includes $1,085 million of borrowings under our revolving credit facilities by foreign subsidiaries that are borrowers under these facilities). The group of subsidiaries that does not guarantee the Euro Notes (2024) is substantially similar to the group that does not guarantee the Euro Notes (2028), except that, in addition to the issuer of the Euro No tes (2024), there are four subsidiaries in the group that do not guarantee the Euro Notes (2028) that guarantee the Euro Notes (2024). We may not be able to repurchase the senior notes upon a change of control or pursuant to an asset sale offer. Upon a change of control, as defined in the indentures governing the senior notes, the holders of the senior notes will have the right to require us to offer to purchase all of the senior notes then outstanding at a price equal to 101% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest. Such a change of control would also be an event of default under our credit agreement. In order to obtain sufficient funds to pay amounts due under the credit agreement and the purchase price of the outstanding senior notes, we expect that we would have to refinance our indebtedness. We cannot assure you that we would be able to refinance our indebtedness on reasonable terms, if at all. Our failure to offer to purchase all outstanding senior notes or to purchase all validly tendered senior notes would be an event of default under the indentures governing the senior notes. Such an event of default may cause the acceleration of our other debt. Our other debt also may contain restrictions or repayment requirements with respect to specified events or transactions that constitute a change of control under the indentures governing the senior notes. The definition of change of control in the indentures governing the senior notes includes a phrase relating to the sale of “all or substantially all” of our assets. There is no precise established definition of the phrase “substantially all” under applicable law. Accordingly, the ability of a holder of senior notes to require us to repurchase its senior notes as a result of a sale of less than all our assets to another person may be uncertain. In addition, in certain circumstances as specified in the indentures governing the senior notes, if we sell certain assets, we will be required to either prepay secured debt of the issuer or guarantors of the senior notes, prepay debt of non-guarantor wholly-owned subsidiaries, reinvest the sale proceeds in other assets or commence an asset sale offer, as defined in the indentures governing the senior notes, pursuant to which we will be obligated to purchase certain senior notes at a price equal to 100% of their principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest with the proceeds we receive from such asset sales. Our other debt may contain restrictions that would limit or prohibit us from completing any such asset sale offer. In particular, our credit agreement contains provisions that require us, upon the sale of certain assets, to either apply all of the proceeds from such asset sale to the prepayment of the term loan amounts due under the credit agreement or to reinvest such proceeds in real estate, equipment or tangible assets. If we chose to prepay the term loan obligations instead of reinvesting in assets, the mandatory prepayment obligations under the credit agreement will be effectively senior to our obligations to make an asset sale offer with respect to the senior notes under the terms of the indentures governing the senior notes. Key terms of the senior notes will be suspended if the notes achieve investment grade ratings and no default or event of default has occurred and is continuing. Many of the covenants in the indentures governing the senior notes will be suspended if the senior notes are rated investment grade by Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s provided at such time no default or event of default has occurred and is continuing, including those covenants that restrict, among other things, our ability to pay dividends, incur liens and to enter into certain other transactions. There can be no assurance that the senior notes will ever be rated investment grade. However, suspension of these covenants would allow us to engage in certain transactions that would not be permitted while these covenants were in force (although provisions under our other debt, like the credit agreement, may continue to restrict us from engaging in these transactions), and the effects of any such transactions will be permitted to remain in place even if the senior notes are subsequently downgraded below investment grade. The liquidity and market value of the senior notes may change due to a variety of factors. The liquidity of any trading market in the senior notes, and the market price quoted for the senior notes, may be adversely affected by changes in the overall market for these types of securities, changes in interest rates, changes in our ratings, and changes in our financial performance or prospects or in the prospects for companies in our industries generally. 29 The amount and frequency of our share repurchases and dividend payments may fluctuate. The amount, timing and execution of our share repurchase program may fluctuate based on our priorities for the use of cash for other purposes such as operational spending, capital spending, acquisitions or repayment of debt. Changes in cash flows, tax laws and our share price could also impact our share repurchase program and other capital activities. Additionally, decisions to return capital to shareholders, including through our repurchase program or the issuance of dividends on our common stock, remain subject to determination of our Board of Directors that any such activity is in the best interests of our shareholders and is in compliance with all applicable laws and contractual obligations. Legal and Regulatory Risks Existing or new laws and regulations, or changes to enforcement or interpretation of existing laws or regulations, may prohibit, restrict or burden the sale of aftermarket, recycled, refurbished or remanufactured products. Many states have introduced or passed laws that limit the use of aftermarket products in collision repair. These laws include requirements relating to consumer disclosure, vehicle owner’s consent regarding the use of aftermarket products in the repair process, and the requirement to have aftermarket products certified by an independent testing organization. Additional legislation of this kind may be introduced in the future. If additional laws prohibiting or restricting the use of aftermarket products are passed, it could have an adverse impact on our aftermarket products business. Certain organizations test the quality and safety of vehicle replacement products. If these organizations decide not to test a particular vehicle product, or in the event that such organizations decide that a particular vehicle product does not meet applicable quality or safety standards, we may decide to discontinue sales of such product or insurance companies may decide to discontinue authorization of repairs using such product. Such events could adversely affect our business. Some jurisdictions have enacted laws prohibiting or severely restricting the sale of certain recycled products that we provide, such as airbags. In addition, laws relating to the regulation of parts affecting vehicle emissions, such as California’s Proposition 65, may impact the ability of our Specialty segment to sell certain accessory products. These and other jurisdictions could enact similar laws or could prohibit or severely restrict the sale of additional recycled products. The passage of legislation with prohibitions or restrictions that are more severe than current laws could have a material adverse impact on our business. Additionally, Congress could enact federal legislation restricting the use of aftermarket or recycled automotive products used in the course of vehicle repairs. In Europe, the Motor Vehicle Block Exemption Regulations (MVBER) regulate the competition rules on automotive spare parts. The 2012 MVBER are due to expire in May 2023. The current indications are that the 2012 MVBER will be extended for 5 years, with additional guidance to be provided by the EU Commission in a supplementary guidance regarding new technology and software provided by OEMs. The new EU proposals with respect to MVBER will be proposed for consultation in mid-2022. The Federal Trade Commission has issued guides that regulate the use of certain terms such as “rebuilt” or “remanufactured” in connection with the sale of automotive parts. Restrictions on the products we are able to sell and on the marketing of such products could decrease our revenue and have an adverse effect on our business and operations. We are subject to environmental regulations and incur costs relating to environmental matters. We are subject to various environmental protection and health and safety laws and regulations governing, among other things: the emission and discharge of hazardous materials into the ground, air, or water; exposure to hazardous materials; and the generation, handling, storage, use, treatment, identification, transportation, and disposal of industrial by-products, waste water, storm water, and mercury and other hazardous materials. We are also required to obtain environmental permits from governmental authorities for certain of our operations. If we violate or fail to obtain or comply with these laws, regulations, or permits, we could be fined or otherwise sanctioned by regulators or lose our operating permits. We could also become liable if employees or other parties are improperly exposed to hazardous materials. We have an environmental management process designed to facilitate and support our compliance with these requirements; we cannot assure you, however, that we will at all times be in complete compliance with such requirements. We have made and will continue to make capital and other expenditures relating to environmental matters. Although we presently do not expect to incur any capital or other expenditures relating to environmental controls or other environmental matters in amounts that would be material to us, we may be required to make such expenditures in the future. 30 Under certain environmental laws, we could be held responsible for all of the costs relating to any contamination at, or migration to or from, our or our predecessors' past or present facilities and at independent waste disposal sites. These laws often impose liability even if the owner or operator did not know of, or was not responsible for, the release of such hazardous substances. Many of our facilities are located on or near properties with a history of industrial use that may have involved hazardous materials. As a result, some of our properties may be contaminated. Some environmental laws hold current or previous owners or operators of real property liable for the costs of cleaning up contamination. These environmental laws also impose liability on any person who disposes of, treats, or arranges for the disposal or treatment of hazardous substances, regardless of whether the affected site is owned or operated by such person, and at times can impose liability on companies deemed under law to be a successor to such person. Third parties may also make claims against owners or operators of properties, or successors to such owners or operators, for personal injuries and property damage associated with releases of hazardous or toxic substances. Contamination resulting from vehicle recycling processes can include soil and ground water contamination from the release, storage, transportation, or disposal of gasoline, motor oil, antifreeze, transmission fluid, chlorofluorocarbons from air conditioners, other hazardous materials, or metals such as aluminum, cadmium, chromium, lead, and mercury. Contamination from the refurbishment of chrome plated bumpers can occur from the release of the plating material. Contamination can migrate on-site or off-site, which can increase the risk, and the amount, of any potential liability. When we identify a potential material environmental issue during our acquisition due diligence process, we analyze the risks, and, when appropriate, perform further environmental assessment to verify and quantify the extent of the potential contamination. Furthermore, where appropriate, we have established financial reserves for certain environmental matters. In the event we discover new information or if laws change, we may incur significant liabilities, which may exceed our reserves. Environmental laws are complex, change frequently, and have tended to become more stringent over time. Our costs of complying with current and future environmental and health and safety laws, and our liabilities arising from past or future releases of, or exposure to, hazardous substances, may adversely affect our business, results of operations, or financial condition. We may be adversely affected by legal, regulatory or market responses to global climate change. Growing concern over climate change has led policy makers in the U.S. to consider the enactment of legislative and regulatory proposals that would impose mandatory requirements on greenhouse gas emissions. Such laws, if enacted, are likely to impact our business in a number of ways. For example, significant increases in fuel economy requirements, new federal or state restrictions on emissions of carbon dioxide or new federal or state incentive programs that may be imposed on vehicles and automobile fuels could adversely affect demand for vehicles, annual miles driven or the products we sell. We may not be able to accurately predict, prepare for and respond to new kinds of technological innovations with respect to electric vehicles and other technologies that minimize emissions. Compliance with any new or more stringent laws or regulations, or stricter interpretations of existing laws, could require additional expenditures by us or our suppliers. Our inability to appropriately respond to such changes could adversely impact our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Moreover, the perspectives of our customers, suppliers, stockholders, employees, community partners, regulatory agencies and other stakeholders regarding climate change are evolving. These stakeholders are increasingly requesting disclosures and actions relating to not only climate change but other environmental and social matters and corporate governance practices. The increase in costs to comply with such evolving expectations, including any rules or regulations resulting from these evolving expectations, as well as any risk of noncompliance, could adversely impact us. Our amended and restated bylaws provide that the courts in the State of Delaware are the exclusive forums for substantially all disputes between us and our stockholders, which could limit our stockholders’ ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers or employees. Our amended and restated bylaws provide that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware (or if the Court of Chancery does not have jurisdiction, another court of the State of Delaware, or if no court of the State of Delaware has jurisdiction, the federal district court for the District of Delaware) shall be the exclusive forum for the following types of actions or proceedings: • any derivative action or proceeding brought on our behalf; • any action asserting a breach of fiduciary duty; 31 • any action asserting a claim against us arising under the Delaware General Corporation Law, our certificate of incorporation, or our bylaws; • any action asserting a claim governed by the internal-affairs doctrine; and • any action to interpret, apply, enforce or determine the validity of our certificate of incorporation or our bylaws. The choice of forum provision in our bylaws does not apply to claims brought to enforce any duty or liability created by the Exchange Act or the Securities Act or any claim with respect to which the federal courts have exclusive jurisdiction. Although we believe this provision benefits us by providing increased consistency in the application of Delaware law in the types of lawsuits to which it applies, the provision may have the effect of discouraging lawsuits against our directors and officers due to, among other possible factors, increased costs of such lawsuits and limitations on the ability to bring claims in a judicial forum that the plaintiffs may consider more favorable. Alternatively, if a court were to find the choice of forum provision contained in our bylaws to be inapplicable or unenforceable in an action, we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such action in other jurisdictions, which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and operating results. Our effective tax rate could materially increase as a consequence of various factors, including interpretations and administrative guidance in regard to the Tax Act (defined below), U.S. and/or international tax legislation, mix of earnings by jurisdiction, and U.S. and foreign jurisdictional audits. We are a U.S. based multinational company subject to income taxes in the U.S. and a number of foreign jurisdictions. Therefore, we are subject to changes in tax laws in each of these jurisdictions, including as a result of changes proposed by the new U.S. administration, and such changes could have a material adverse effect on our effective tax rate and cash flows. On December 22, 2017, the U.S. enacted legislation commonly referred to as the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the "Tax Act"). Among other things, the Tax Act reduced the U.S. statutory corporate tax rate from 35% to 21% for tax years beginning after December 31, 2017. Additionally, beginning in 2018, the Tax Act imposed a regime of taxation on foreign subsidiary earnings (Global Intangible Low-Taxed Income, “GILTI”) and on certain related party payments (Base Erosion Anti-abuse Tax, “BEAT”). Other important changes potentially material to our operations included the full expensing of certain assets placed into service after September 27, 2017, the repeal of the domestic manufacturing deduction, and additional limitations on the deductibility of executive compensation. Finally, as part of the transition of U.S. international taxation from a worldwide tax system to a territorial tax system, the Tax Act imposed a one-time transition tax on the deemed repatriation of historical earnings of foreign subsidiaries as of December 31, 2017. Many non-U.S. jurisdictions are implementing tax legislation based upon recommendations made by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development in connection with its Base Erosion and Profit Shifting study, as well as certain anti-tax-avoidance initiatives advanced by the European Commission. The outcome of these legislative developments could have a material adverse effect on our effective tax rate and cash flows. The tax rates applicable in the jurisdictions within which we operate vary widely. Therefore, our effective tax rate may be adversely affected by changes in the mix of our earnings by jurisdiction. We are also subject to ongoing audits of our income tax returns in various jurisdictions both in the U.S. and internationally. While we believe that our tax positions will be sustained, the outcomes of such audits could result in the assessment of additional taxes, which could adversely impact our cash flows and financial results. If significant tariffs or other restrictions are placed on products or materials we import or any related counter-measures are taken by countries to which we export products, our revenue and results of operations may be materially harmed. The U.S. has imposed tariffs on certain materials imported into the U.S. from China and announced additional tariffs on other goods from China and other countries. Moreover, counter-measures have been taken by other countries in retaliation for the U.S.-imposed tariffs. The tariffs cover products and materials that we import, and the counter-measures may affect products we export. The effects currently are not material; however, depending on the breadth of products and materials ultimately affected by, and the duration of, the tariffs and countermeasures, our financial results may be materially harmed. In addition, countries may impose other restrictions on the importation of products. 32 Governmental agencies may refuse to grant or renew our operating licenses and permits Our operating subsidiaries in our salvage, self service, and refurbishing operations must obtain licenses and permits from state and local governments to conduct their operations. When we develop or acquire a new facility, we must seek the approval of state and local units of government. Governmental agencies may resist the establishment of a vehicle recycling or refurbishing facility in their communities. There can be no assurance that future approvals or transfers will be granted. In addition, there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain and renew the licenses and permits our operating subsidiaries currently hold. General Risks Our employees are important to successfully manage our business and achieve our objectives. Our future success depends in large part upon the leadership and performance of our executive management team and key employees at the operating level. If we lose the services of one or more of our executive officers or key employees, or if one or more of them decides to join a competitor or otherwise compete directly or indirectly with us, we may not be able to successfully manage our business or achieve our business objectives. If we lose the services of any of our key employees at the operating or regional level, we may not be able to replace them with similarly qualified personnel, which could harm our business. In addition, we have experienced wage inflation in the jurisdictions in which we operate. An inability to respond to these inflationary pressures could impact our ability to retain key employees or we may experience increased costs due to difficulties related to hiring and retaining employees. We operate in foreign jurisdictions, which exposes us to foreign exchange and other risks. We have operations in North America, Europe and Taiwan, and we may expand our operations in the countries in which we do business and into other countries. Our foreign operations expose us to additional risks associated with international business, which could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations and/or financial condition, including import and export requirements and compliance with anti-corruption laws, such as the U.K. Bribery Act 2010 and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. We also incur costs in currencies other than our functional currencies in some of the countries in which we operate. We are thus subject to foreign exchange exposure to the extent that we operate in different currencies, as well as exposure to foreign tax and other foreign and domestic laws. In addition, certain countries in which we operate have a higher level of political instability and criminal activity than the U.S. that could affect our operations and the ability to maintain our supply of products. Our business may be adversely affected by union activities and labor and employment laws. Certain of our employees are represented by labor unions and other employee representative bodies and work under collective bargaining or similar agreements, which are subject to periodic renegotiation. From time to time, there have been efforts to organize additional portions of our workforce and those efforts can be expected to continue. In addition, legislators and government agencies could adopt new regulations, or interpret existing regulations in a manner, that could make it significantly easier for unionization efforts to be successful. Also, we may in the future be subject to strikes or work stoppages, union and works council campaigns, and other labor disruptions and disputes. Additional unionization efforts, new collective bargaining or similar agreements, and work stoppages could materially increase our costs and reduce revenue and could limit our flexibility in terms of work schedules, reductions in force and other operational matters. We also are subject to laws and regulations that govern such matters as minimum wage, overtime and other working conditions. Some of these laws are technical in nature and could be subject to interpretation by government agencies and courts different than our interpretations. Efforts to comply with existing laws, changes to such laws and newly-enacted laws may increase our labor costs and limit our flexibility. If we were found not to be in compliance with such laws, we could be subject to fines, penalties and liabilities to our employees or government agencies. In addition, efforts to better protect local markets from foreign workers and decisions of countries to withdraw from treaties and joint economic areas may lead to increased restrictions on the free movement of people and labor and may limit our ability to place key personnel where they could best serve our needs. 33 We rely on information technology and communication systems in critical areas of our operations and a disruption relating to such technology could harm our business. In the ordinary course of business, we rely upon information technology networks and systems, some of which are provided by or leased from third parties, to process, transmit and store electronic information and to manage and support a variety of business processes and activities. The secure operation of these information technology networks and the processing and maintenance of this information is critical to our business operations and strategy. Despite security measures and business continuity plans, these information technology networks and infrastructure may be vulnerable to damage, disruptions or shutdowns due to attacks by cyber criminals, breaches due to employee error or malfeasance, disruptions during the process of upgrading or replacing computer software or hardware, terminations of business relationships by third party service providers, power outages, computer viruses, telecommunication or utility failures, terrorist acts, natural disasters or other catastrophic events. The occurrence of any of these events involving us or involving the third parties with whom we do business could compromise our or the third parties' networks, and the information stored there could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost or stolen. Any such access, disclosure or loss of information could result in legal claims or proceedings, disruption to our operations and damage to our reputation, any of which could adversely affect our business. In addition, as security threats continue to evolve, we will likely need to invest additional resources to protect the security of our systems. In the event that we decide to switch providers or to implement upgrades or replacements to our own systems, we may be unsuccessful in the development of our own systems or we may underestimate the costs and expenses of switching providers or developing and implementing our own systems. Also, our revenue may be hampered during the period of implementing an alternative system, which period could extend longer than we anticipated. We are in the midst of a systems conversion project for our European businesses, which will be subject to all of these risks. The costs of complying with the requirements of laws pertaining to the privacy and security of personal information and the potential liability associated with the failure to comply with such laws could materially adversely affect our business and results of operations. We collect personally identifiable information ("PII") and other data as part of our business processes and operations. The legislative and regulatory framework relating to privacy and data protection is rapidly evolving worldwide and is likely to remain uncertain for the foreseeable future. This data is subject to a variety of U.S. and international laws and regulations. Many foreign countries and governmental bodies, including the European Union, Canada and other jurisdictions where we conduct business, have laws and regulations concerning the collection and use of PII and other data obtained from their residents or by businesses operating within their jurisdictions that are more restrictive than those in the U.S. Additionally, the European Union adopted the General Data Protection Regulation ("GDPR") that imposes more stringent data protection requirements for processors and controllers of personal data, including expanded disclosures about how PII is to be used, limitations on retention of PII, mandatory data breach notification requirements, possible restrictions on cross border transfers of PII and higher standards for data controllers to demonstrate that they have obtained valid consent for certain data processing activities. The GDPR provides severe penalties for noncompliance. In addition, stricter laws in this area are being enacted in certain states in the U.S. and in other countries, and more jurisdictions are likely to follow this trend. Any inability, or perceived inability, to adequately address privacy and data protection issues, even if unfounded, or comply with applicable laws, regulations, policies, industry standards, contractual obligations or other legal obligations (including at newly-acquired companies) could result in additional cost and liability to us, result in governmental investigations and enforcement actions, give rise to civil litigation, result in damage to our reputation (including the loss of trust by our customers and employees), inhibit sales, and otherwise adversely affect our business. We also may be subject to these adverse effects if other parties with whom we do business, including lenders, suppliers, consultants and advisors, violate applicable laws or contractual obligations or suffer a security breach. Business interruptions in our distribution centers or other facilities may affect our operations, the function of our computer systems, and/or the availability and distribution of merchandise, which may affect our business. Weather, terrorist activities, war or other disasters, or the threat of any of them, may result in the breakdown of our distribution center systems, closure of our distribution centers or other facilities or may adversely affect our ability to deliver inventory through our system on a timely basis. This may affect our ability to serve our customers, resulting in lost sales or a potential loss of customer loyalty. Some of our merchandise is imported from other countries and these goods could become difficult or impossible to bring into the U.S. or into the other countries in which we operate, and we may not be able to obtain such merchandise from other sources at similar prices. Such a disruption in revenue could potentially have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. 34 If we experience problems with our fleet of trucks and other vehicles, our business could be harmed. We use a fleet of trucks and other vehicles to deliver the majority of the products we sell. We are subject to the risks associated with providing delivery services, including inclement weather, disruptions in the transportation infrastructure, governmental regulation, availability and price of fuel, liabilities arising from accidents to the extent we are not covered by insurance, insurance premium increases, and ability to hire drivers. In addition, our failure to deliver products in a timely and accurate manner could harm our reputation and brand, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. We may lose the right to operate at key locations. We lease most of the properties at which we conduct our businesses. At the end of a lease term, we must negotiate a renewal, exercise a purchase option (to the extent we have that right), or find a new location. There can be no assurance that we will be able to negotiate renewals on terms acceptable to us or that we will find a suitable alternative location, especially with respect to our salvage operations (which have characteristics that are often not attractive to landlords, local governments, or neighbors). In such cases, we may lose the right to operate at key locations. Activist investors could cause us to incur substantial costs, divert management’s attention, and have an adverse effect on our business. We have in the past received, and we may in the future be subject to, proposals by activist investors urging us to take certain corporate actions. Activist investor activities could cause our business to be adversely affected because responding to proxy contests and other demands by activist investors can be costly and time-consuming, disrupt our operations, and divert the attention of management and our employees. For example, we have retained, and may in the future be required to retain, the services of various professionals to advise us on activist investor matters, including legal, financial and communications advisors, the costs of which may negatively impact our future financial results. Campaigns by activist investors to effect changes at publicly-traded companies are sometimes led by investors seeking to increase short term investor value through actions such as financial restructuring, increased debt, special dividends, stock repurchases, or sales of assets or the entire company. Perceived uncertainties as to our future direction, strategy or leadership that arise as a consequence of activist investor initiatives may result in the loss of potential business opportunities, harm our ability to attract new investors, employees and business partners, and cause our stock price to experience periods of volatility or stagnation.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

The following discussion of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our audited Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto included in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Discussion of 2019 items and the year-over-year comparison of changes in our financial condition and the results of operations as of and for the years ended December 31, 2020 and December 31, 2019 can be found in Part II, Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2020 filed with the SEC on February 26, 2021. Unless otherwise indicated or the context otherwise requires, as used in this "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," the terms "we," "us," "the Company," "our," "LKQ" and similar terms refer to LKQ Corporation and its subsidiaries. 38 Overview We are a global distributor of vehicle products, including replacement parts, components and systems used in the repair and maintenance of vehicles, and specialty products and accessories to improve the performance, functionality and appearance of vehicles. Buyers of vehicle replacement products have the option to purchase from primarily five sources: new products produced by OEMs; new products produced by companies other than the OEMs, which are referred to as aftermarket products; recycled products obtained from salvage and total loss vehicles; recycled products that have been refurbished; and recycled products that have been remanufactured. We distribute a variety of products to collision and mechanical repair shops, including aftermarket collision and mechanical products; recycled collision and mechanical products; refurbished collision products such as wheels, bumper covers and lights; and remanufactured engines and transmissions. Collectively, we refer to the four sources that are not new OEM products as alternative parts. We are a leading provider of alternative vehicle collision replacement products and alternative vehicle mechanical replacement products, with our sales, processing, and distribution facilities reaching most major markets in the United States and Canada. We are also a leading provider of alternative vehicle replacement and maintenance products in Germany, the United Kingdom, the Benelux region (Belgium, Netherlands, and Luxembourg), Italy, Czech Republic, Austria, Slovakia, Poland, and various other European countries. In addition to our wholesale operations, we operate self service retail facilities across the U.S. that sell recycled automotive products from end-of-life-vehicles. We are also a leading distributor of specialty vehicle aftermarket equipment and accessories reaching most major markets in the U.S. and Canada. We are organized into four operating segments: Wholesale – North America; Europe; Specialty and Self Service. We aggregate our Wholesale – North America and Self Service operating segments into one reportable segment, North America, resulting in three reportable segments: North America, Europe and Specialty. Our operating results have fluctuated on a quarterly and annual basis in the past and can be expected to continue to fluctuate in the future as a result of a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control. Please refer to the factors referred to in Forward-Looking Statements and Risk Factors above. Due to these factors and others, which may be unknown to us at this time, our operating results in future periods can be expected to fluctuate. Accordingly, our historical results of operations may not be indicative of future performance. Acquisitions and Investments Since our inception in 1998, we have pursued a growth strategy through both organic growth and acquisitions. Through 2018, our acquisition strategy was focused on consolidation to build scale in fragmented markets across North America and Europe. We targeted companies that were market leaders, expanded our geographic presence and enhanced our ability to provide a wide array of vehicle products through our distribution network. In the last few years, we have shifted our focus from larger transactions to tuck-in acquisitions that target high synergies and/or add critical capabilities. Additionally, we have made investments in various businesses to advance our strategic objectives. During the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019, we acquired various immaterial businesses across our North America, Europe, and Specialty segments. Sources of Revenue We report our revenue in two categories: (i) parts and services and (ii) other. Our parts revenue is generated from the sale of vehicle products, including replacement parts, components and systems used in the repair and maintenance of vehicles, and specialty products and accessories to improve the performance, functionality and appearance of vehicles. Our service revenue is generated primarily from the sale of service-type warranties, fees for admission to our self service yards, and diagnostic and repair services. During the year ended December 31, 2021, parts and services revenue represented approximately 93% of our consolidated revenue. Revenue from other sources includes scrap and other metals (including precious metals - platinum, palladium and rhodium) sales, bulk sales to mechanical manufacturers (including cores) and sales of aluminum ingots and sows from our furnace operations. Other revenue will vary from period to period based on fluctuations in commodity prices and the volume of materials sold. See Note 4, "Revenue Recognition" to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for additional information related to our sources of revenue. 39 Critical Accounting Estimates The preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("US GAAP") requires management to make use of certain estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, as well as related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities in the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Historically, we have not made significant changes to the methods for determining these estimates as our actual results have not differed materially from our estimates. We do not believe it is reasonably likely that the estimates and related assumptions will change materially in the foreseeable future; however, actual results could differ from those estimates under different assumptions, judgments or conditions. Critical accounting estimates are those that are most important to the portrayal of our financial condition and results of operations, and which require us to make our most difficult and subjective judgments, often as a result of the need to make estimates of matters that are inherently uncertain. Based on this definition, we have identified the critical accounting estimates addressed below. For additional information related to significant accounting policies used in the preparation of our Consolidated Financial Statements, see Note 3, "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements. Goodwill Impairment Description Goodwill is obtained through business acquisitions and recorded at the estimated fair value at the date of acquisition. Goodwill is not amortized but instead tested for impairment annually or sooner if events indicate that an impairment may exist. In performing this test, we compare the carrying value of the asset to its fair value. To derive the fair value for our reporting units which carry goodwill, we consider the use of various valuation techniques, with the primary technique being an income approach via a discounted cash flow method and another being a market approach via a guideline public company method. If the carrying value of these assets exceeds the estimated fair value, the asset is considered impaired and an impairment charge is recognized. In performing the test for impairment of goodwill, goodwill is allocated to the reporting units expected to benefit from the business combination. Judgments and Uncertainties Determining whether impairment indicators exist and estimating fair values as part of impairment testing require significant judgment. Estimating the fair values of our reporting units which have goodwill requires the use of significant unobservable inputs, or Level 3 inputs, as defined by the fair value hierarchy. As part of applying the discounted cash flow method and guideline public company method, we use significant assumptions which include sales growth, operating margins, discount rates, perpetual growth rates and valuation multiples which consider our budgets, business plans, economic projections and marketplace data. Sensitivity of Estimate to Change We have not made material changes in the accounting methodology used to evaluate impairment of goodwill during the last three years. The assumptions used to assess impairment consider historical trends, macroeconomic conditions, and projections consistent with the Company’s operating strategy. Changes in these estimates can have a significant impact on the assessment of fair value which could result in material impairment losses. During fiscal year 2021, we elected to perform a quantitative impairment test for our goodwill. No impairment charges were recorded as a result of the testing as the fair value of each goodwill reporting unit exceeded the calculated carrying value. A 10% decline in projected cash flows or a 10% increase in the discount rate would not have resulted in an impairment to goodwill. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements See "Recent Accounting Pronouncements" in Note 3, "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for information related to new accounting standards. 40 Financial Information by Geographic Area See Note 15, "Segment and Geographic Information" to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for information related to our revenue and long-lived assets by geographic region. 1 LKQ Europe Program We have undertaken the 1 LKQ Europe program to create structural centralization and standardization of key functions to facilitate the operation of the Europe segment as a single business. Under this multi-year program, we expect to recognize the following: • Restructuring expenses — Non-recurring costs resulting directly from the implementation of the 1 LKQ Europe program from which the business will derive no ongoing benefit. See Note 5, "Restructuring and Acquisition Related Expenses,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further details. • Transformation expenses — Period costs incurred to execute the 1 LKQ Europe program that are expected to contribute to ongoing benefits to the business (e.g. non-capitalizable implementation costs related to a common ERP system). These expenses are recorded in Selling, general and administrative expenses. • Transformation capital expenditures — Capitalizable costs for long-lived assets, such as software and facilities, that directly relate to the execution of the 1 LKQ Europe program. Costs related to the 1 LKQ Europe program incurred to date are reflected in Selling, general and administrative expenses, Restructuring and acquisition related expenses and Purchases of property, plant and equipment in our Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Beginning in the second half of March 2020, management delayed certain projects under the 1 LKQ Europe program to reduce expenses and preserve capital in response to the COVID-19 pandemic. Based on our expectations in the second quarter of 2020 that the impacts on our business from COVID-19 had stabilized, we restarted the program in July 2020 with substantially the same initiatives and projects as prior to the pandemic. While certain projects were delayed as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, such as our procurement initiatives and the new headquarters in Switzerland, we also accelerated certain projects, such as the integration of previously acquired networks and sharing resources across LKQ Europe. We have continued the project on schedule after the restart. We completed the organizational design and implementation projects in June 2021, with the remaining projects scheduled to be completed by 2024. During the year ended December 31, 2021, we incurred $37 million in costs across all three categories noted above. We expect that costs of the program, reflecting all three categories noted above, will range between $100 million and $130 million between 2022 and the projected program completion date in 2024. In the future, we may also identify additional initiatives and projects under the 1 LKQ Europe program that may result in additional expenditures, although we are currently unable to estimate the range of charges for such potential future initiatives and projects. We expect the transformation and restructuring expenses will be entirely funded by the improved trade working capital initiatives across our Europe segment. COVID-19 Impact on Our Operations In late February 2020, the Italian government began placing restrictions on activity as a result of the COVID-19 outbreak. Sales volumes fell as fewer cars were on the road and less maintenance activity was performed. While our Italian operation is an important part of our European business, it represented approximately 10% of the segment’s revenue in 2019, and thus the disruption did not have a material impact on the Company. By mid-March, the COVID-19 impact began spreading across the rest of the geographies where we operate at a very rapid pace. Governments adopted aggressive restrictions on the operation of non-essential businesses and personal movement, which reduced miles driven and collisions. While our businesses were deemed essential in most jurisdictions in which we operate, the change in behavior driven by the COVID-19 restrictions negatively impacted our sales volume. Our organic parts and services revenue declined by 16.8%, 4.5% and 5.2% in the second, third, and fourth quarters of 2020, respectively, relative to the comparable prior year periods. We showed improvement in the third quarter of 2020 as governments gradually lifted restrictions for non-essential businesses and personal movement; however, in the fourth quarter of 2020 revenue declined as certain jurisdictions put restrictions back into place. As anticipated, April 2020 experienced the most negative revenue impact, with organic parts and services revenue (on a per day basis) down 30.3% compared to the prior year period. As movement restrictions lessened in May and June of 2020, we experienced organic parts and services revenue declines (on a per day basis) of 13.2% and 7.3%, respectively, compared to the prior year periods. However, the pace of improvement flattened into the third quarter of 2020 as the increasing level of COVID-19 cases, especially in the United States, slowed the recovery. During the third quarter of 2020, organic parts and services revenue declined by 4.5% compared to the prior year period, a small improvement from the June 2020 decline of 7.3% (on a per day 41 basis). During the fourth quarter of 2020, organic parts and services revenue declined by 6.1% (on a per day basis) and gradually worsened during the quarter with a decline of 7.2% (on a per day basis) in December. During the first quarter of 2021, organic parts and services revenue increased by 2.2% (on a per day basis) despite the continued COVID-19 impact on economic activity in the U.S. and Europe. During the second quarter of 2021, organic parts and services revenue increased by 21.1% (on a per day basis) reflecting the low prior year comparable figure owing to COVID-19 and the gradual recovery in mobility. During the third quarter of 2021, the recovery continued with organic parts and services revenue increasing by 4.0%. During the fourth quarter of 2021, organic parts and services revenue increased by 7.3% (on a per day basis). Since the start of the pandemic, our revenue has been impacted to varying degrees depending on the segment, with North America experiencing the most negative impact due to the decrease in miles driven and collision activity. Europe was also negatively affected by mobility restrictions and reduced miles driven but has experienced a quicker recovery than North America and reached its 2019 revenue level in the fourth quarter of 2021. After seeing year over year decreases early in the pandemic, Specialty revenue has grown due to favorable trends in recreational vehicle activity and online sales. We expect consolidated parts and services revenue to grow organically in future periods, but the level of the year over year increase in revenue will depend on, among other factors, the extent of COVID-19 related restrictions across the geographies in which we operate as strategies to address the virus evolve, the pace of recovery in miles driven and access to inventory, which has been constrained with supply chain issues. Our top priority is the health and safety of our employees, customers and the communities in which we operate. We are using all reasonable efforts to follow governmental instructions and safety guidelines with respect to the operations of our facilities. We implemented protocols across our business units designed to help ensure the health and safety of our employees, customers and communities including, but not limited to: restricting access to, and enhancing cleaning and disinfecting protocols at, our facilities; encouraging vaccination of our employees; use of personal protective equipment; adhering to social distancing guidelines; instituting remote work arrangements for many of our employees; and restricting travel. We are monitoring developments related to variant status, vaccination levels and governmental standards and have adjusted our practices where appropriate to comply with the latest guidance. Recognizing the demand changes in the first quarter of 2020, we took action in all of our business units to reduce our cost structure. These actions included, but were not limited to, employee furloughs and reductions in force, decreases in hours and overtime, lowering compensation for salaried employees, a hiring freeze, elimination of temporary labor, route consolidation, deferral of projects, and temporary branch closures. In the second quarter of 2020, these cost actions contributed to a reduction of approximately 18% in quarterly selling, general and administrative expenses compared to our first quarter 2020 run rate. Since then, we have been able to sustain a portion of these cost benefits. As revenue has increased, some of the costs that were reduced as a result of COVID-19 remained at a lower level; the management team has implemented productivity initiatives to create lower cost structures going forward which has contributed to profitability reported in 2020 and 2021. Inflationary pressures around wages and freight experienced in 2021 drove expenses higher, which partially offset some of the prior cost savings initiatives. We pursued certain financial assistance and relief programs that were available to us from governments in Europe and Canada, primarily in the form of grants to offset personnel expenses. During the year ended December 31, 2021, we qualified for $16 million of assistance. We received $52 million of government assistance in 2020, with the largest portion coming in the second quarter. We currently do not anticipate qualifying for significant additional assistance in 2022. We also emphasized the preservation of capital in 2020 with a deferral of growth driven capital projects, reductions in inventory orders, more active monitoring of customer receivables and terms, income and value added tax payment deferrals (the majority of which were paid during the third quarter of 2020), and suspension of our share buyback program (which was reinstated during the fourth quarter of 2020). This focus was successful as we improved our liquidity position at December 31, 2020 by approximately $1,000 million relative to March 31, 2020 while managing through the disruption caused by the pandemic. Beginning in late 2020 and continuing in 2021, we returned to our stated capital allocation strategy with an emphasis on internal investments in capital expenditures and inventory, tuck-in acquisitions and share repurchases while also issuing the Company's first dividend in the fourth quarter of 2021. In each quarter of 2020, we prepared forecasts of future revenues, profits and cash flows to use in multiple analyses, including the interim goodwill impairment test, other impairment tests of long-lived assets, assessments of the recoverability of inventory, determination of customer and supplier rebate balances, calculation of the annual effective tax rate and evaluations of the realizability of deferred tax assets. Actual results showed an improving trend, with profitability in the second, third and fourth quarters all exceeding our prior forecast prepared in the first quarter of 2020. We continued to assess COVID-19 developments and the potential impacts on our business in 2021, and will continue to do so in 2022 and update the applicable analyses as necessary. 42 As the economic impact of the pandemic is dependent on variables that are difficult to project and in many cases are outside of our control, it is possible that the estimates underlying our analyses may change materially in future periods. This is particularly the case because it appears that the prevalence of the virus outbreak fluctuates depending on various factors, including the development of variants and the level of economic and social activity and vaccination status in a region. See the Results of Operations and Liquidity sections for further detail on our year over year trends. Key Performance Indicators We believe that organic revenue growth, Segment EBITDA and free cash flow are key performance indicators for our business. Segment EBITDA is our key measure of segment profit or loss reviewed by our chief operating decision maker. Free cash flow is a financial measure that is not prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“non-GAAP”). • Organic revenue growth - We define organic revenue growth as total revenue growth from continuing operations excluding the effects of acquisitions and divestitures (i.e., revenue generated from the date of acquisition to the first anniversary of that acquisition, net of reduced revenue due to the disposal of businesses) and foreign currency movements (i.e., impact of translating revenue at prior period exchange rates). Organic revenue growth includes incremental sales from both existing and new (i.e., opened within the last twelve months) locations and is derived from expanding business with existing customers, securing new customers and offering additional products and services. We believe that organic revenue growth is a key performance indicator as this statistic measures our ability to serve and grow our customer base successfully. • Segment EBITDA - Refer to Note 15, "Segment and Geographic Information,” to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a description of the calculation of Segment EBITDA. We believe that Segment EBITDA provides useful information to evaluate our segment profitability by focusing on the indicators of ongoing operational results. • Free Cash Flow - We calculate free cash flow as net cash provided by operating activities, less purchases of property, plant and equipment. Free cash flow provides insight into our liquidity and provides useful information to management and investors concerning cash flow available to meet future debt service obligations and working capital requirements, to make strategic acquisitions, to repurchase stock, and to pay dividends. These three key performance indicators are used as targets in determining incentive compensation at various levels of the organization, including senior management. By using these performance measures, we attempt to motivate a balanced approach to the business that rewards growth, profitability and cash flow generation in a manner that enhances our long-term prospects. 43 Results of Operations—Consolidated The following table sets forth statements of income data as a percentage of total revenue for the periods indicated: Year Ended December 31, 2021 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2020 Revenue. The following table summarizes the changes in revenue by category (in thousands): The growth in parts and service s revenue of 10.7% represented increases in segment revenue of 23.8% in Specialty, 10.3% in Europe, and 6.4% in North America. Organic parts and se rvices revenue growth was 7.9%, w hich in cluded a 0.4% negative effect from one fewer selling day for the year ended December 31, 2021 , resulting in per day organic gro wth of 8.3% as the current year effect of the pandemic was less severe than the prior year. The increase in other revenue of 42.5% was primarily driven by a $281 million o rganic increase, largely attributable to our North America segment. Refer to the discussion of our segment results of operations for factors contributing to the changes in revenue by segment for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the year ended December 31, 2020. Cost of Goods Sold . Cost of goods sold decreased t o 59.3% of revenue for the year ended December 31, 2021 from 60.5% of revenue for the year ended December 31, 2020. The cost of goods sold decrease reflects impac ts of 0.7%, 0.4% and 0.1% in our Europe, North America and Specialty segments, respectively. Refer t o the discussion of our segment results of operations for factors contributing to the changes in cost of goods sold as a percentage of revenue by segment for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the year ended December 31, 2020 . 44 Selling, General and Administrative Expenses. Our selling, general and administrative ("SG&A") expenses as a percentage of revenue decreased t o 27.3% for the year ended December 31, 2021 fro m 28.1% for the year ended December 31, 2020. The SG&A expense decrease reflects impacts of 0.4% and 0.3% in our Europe and North America segments, respectively and 0.2% attributable to mix . The mix impact was a result of the increased revenues in our Specialty segment, as the lower SG&A expense percentage for the Specialty segment made up a larger percentage of the consolidated results, which had a favorable effect on SG&A expense as a percentage of revenue. Refer to the discussion of our segment results of operations for factors contributing to the changes in SG&A expenses as a percentage of revenue by segment for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the year ended December 31, 2020. Restructuring and Acquisition Related Expenses . The following table summarizes restructuring and acquisition related expenses for the periods indicated (in thousands): (1) Restructuring expenses for the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily consisted of (i) $9 million related to our 2020 global restructuring program and (ii) $6 million related to our 1 LKQ Europe program. (2)    Restructuring expenses for the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily consisted of (i) $42 million related to our 2020 global restructuring program, (ii) $9 million related to integration costs from acquisitions, and (iii) $7 million related to our 2019 global restructuring program. (3)    Acquisition related expenses for the year ended December 31, 2021 primarily relate to professional fees related to completed and potential transactions. (4)    Acquisition related expenses for the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily consisted of an $8 million adjustment for the resolution of a purchase price matter related to the Stahlgruber transaction for an amount above our prior estimate. See Note 5, "Restructuring and Acquisition Related Expenses" to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information on our restructuring and integration plans. Loss on disposal of businesses and impairment of net assets held for sale. For the year ended December 31, 2021, we recorded immaterial impairment charges on net assets held for sale, compared to $3 million of net impairment charges on net assets held for sale for the year ended December 31, 2020 primarily attributable to our Europe segment. See "Net Assets Held for Sale" in Note 3, "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information on the net loss on disposals and impairment charges. Depreciation and Amortization . The following table summarizes depreciation and amortization for the periods indicated (in thousands): (1) The increase in depreciation expense primarily reflected (i) $3 million from foreign currency translation primarily related to an increase in the euro and pound sterling exchange rates. (2) The decrease in amortization expense primarily reflected (i) a decrease of $16 million related to the customer relationship intangible assets recorded upon our acquisition of Stahlgruber as the accelerated amortization of the customer relationship intangible assets resulted in lower amortization expense for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the prior year period, partially offset by (ii) a $3 million increase from foreign currency translation, primarily related to an increase in the euro exchange rate for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the prior year period. 45 Other Expense, Net. The following table summarizes the components of the change in other expense, net (in thousands): (1) The lower interest expense is primarily related to (i) a $32 million decrease resulting from lower outstanding debt and lower interest rates for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the prior year period, partially offset by (ii) a $2 million increase from foreign currency translation, primarily related to an increase in the euro exchange rate. (2) The $11 million increase in loss on debt extinguishment is due to a $24 million charge recorded in April 2021 related to the redemption of the Euro Notes (2026) compared to a $13 million charge related to the redemption of the U.S. Notes (2023) in January 2020. (3) The favorable variance in Interest income and other income, net primarily related to (i) $11 million of fair value adjustments in 2021 for appreciation in our equity investments not accounted for under the equity method, (ii) $6 million in pension settlement losses in the prior year related to our primary defined benefit plan in the U.S. (the "U.S. Plan"), (iii) several individually immaterial factors that had a favorable impact of $1 million in the aggregate, partially offset by (iv) an $8 million reduction in proceeds related to insurance settlements compared to the prior year and (v) a $5 million reduction due to a decrease in non-operating income from a North American contract. Provision for Income Taxes. Our effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2021 was 23.6%, compared to 28.2% for the comparable prior year period. The 2021 base rate decreased due to higher pretax income in our international operations in the current year. Additionally, the lower annual effective tax rate for 2021 included a 0.8% rate benefit primarily from the reversal of valuation allowances on certain interest deduction carryforwards in Europe because of improved profitability and lower interest expense. The prior year rate was increased by 1.7% due to valuation allowances on the tax benefit of net operating loss and interest deduction carryforwards in certain jurisdictions where realization was uncertain. See Note 14, "Income Taxes" to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information. Equity in Earnings (Losses) of Unconsolidated Subsidiaries. Equity in earnings of unconsolidated subsidiaries for the year ended December 31, 2021 increas ed by $18 million related to improved year over year results reported by Mekonomen, which is our largest equity method investment, and our North America investments, which generated income in 2021 after posting losses in 2020. See "Investments in Unconsolidated Subsidiaries" in Note 3, "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further discussion. Foreign Currency Impact. We translate our statements of income at the average exchange rates in effect for the period. Relative to the rate used for the year ended December 31, 2020, pound sterling, Canadian dollar, Czech koruna and euro rates used to translate the 2021 statements of income increased by 7.1%, 6.9%, 6.7% and 3.6% , respectively. The positive translation effect of the change in foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar co mbined with the positive impact of realized and unrealized currency gains and losses for the year ended December 31, 2021 resulted in a $0.03 positive effect on diluted earnings per share relative to the prior year period. Net Income Attributable to Continuing and Discontinued Noncontrolling Interest. Net income attributable to continuing noncontrolling interest for the year ended December 31, 2021 dec reased $1 million compared to the year ended December 31, 2020. Net income attributable to discontinued noncontrolling interest was immaterial for the year ended December 31, 2020 and related to the Stahlgruber Czech Republic wholesale business. See Note 2, "Discontinued Operations" to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information on this business. 46 Results of Operations—Segment Reporting We have four operating segments: Wholesale – North America, Europe, Specialty and Self Service. Our Wholesale – North America and Self Service operating segments are aggregated into one reportable segment, North America, because they possess similar economic characteristics and have common products and services, customers, and methods of distribution. Therefore, we present three reportable segments: North America, Europe and Specialty. We have presented the growth of our revenue and profitability in our operations on both an as reported and a constant currency basis. The constant currency presentation, which is a non-GAAP measure, excludes the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. We believe providing constant currency information provides valuable supplemental information regarding our growth and profitability, consistent with how we evaluate our performance, as this statistic removes the translation impact of exchange rate fluctuations, which are outside of our control and do not reflect our operational performance. Constant currency revenue and Segment EBITDA results are calculated by translating prior year revenue and Segment EBITDA in local currency using the current year's currency conversion rate. This non-GAAP financial measure has important limitations as an analytical tool and should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for an analysis of our results as reported under US GAAP. Our use of this term may vary from the use of similarly-titled measures by other issuers due to potential inconsistencies in the method of calculation and differences due to items subject to interpretation. In addition, not all companies that report revenue or profitability on a constant currency basis calculate such measures in the same manner as we do, and accordingly, our calculations are not necessarily comparable to similarly-named measures of other companies and may not be appropriate measures for performance relative to other companies. The following table presents our financial performance, including third party revenue, total revenue and Segment EBITDA, by reportable segment for the periods indicated (in thousands): The key measure of segment profit or loss reviewed by our chief operating decision maker, our Chief Executive Officer, is Segment EBITDA. Segment EBITDA includes revenue and expenses that are controllable by the segment. Corporate general and administrative expenses are allocated to the segments based on usage, with shared expenses apportioned based on the segment's percentage of consolidated revenue. We calculate Segment EBITDA as EBITDA excluding restructuring and acquisition related expenses (which includes restructuring expenses recorded in Cost of goods sold); change in fair value of contingent consideration liabilities; other gains and losses related to acquisitions, equity method investments, or divestitures; equity in losses and earnings of unconsolidated subsidiaries; equity investment fair value adjustments; and impairment charges. EBITDA, which is the basis for Segment EBITDA, is calculated as net income attributable to LKQ stockholders excluding discontinued operations and discontinued noncontrolling interest, depreciation, amortization, interest (which includes gains and losses on debt extinguishment) and income tax expense. See Note 15, "Segment and Geographic Information" to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a reconciliation of total Segment EBITDA to net income. 47 Year Ended December 31, 2021 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2020 North America Third Party Revenue . The following table summarizes the changes in third party revenue by category in our North America segment (in thousands): (1) Parts and services organic revenue increased 5.6% (6.4% on a per day basis) for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the prior year period, primarily driven by pricing and growth from recycled and remanufactured major mechanical parts and aftermarket automotive glass products. While mobility statistics have improved relative to 2020, aftermarket collision parts revenue was roughly flat year-over-year due to the constraints on availability of parts caused by supply chain issues in 2021. Until these issues are resolved, we expect to see a negative effect on aftermarket fill rates across the sector that will impact revenue growth rates. (2) The $276 million year over year organic increase in other revenue is primarily related to (i) a $134 million increase in revenue from scrap steel due to higher prices, (ii) an $81 million increase in revenue from precious metals (platinum, palladium, and rhodium) primarily due to higher prices, and (iii) a $61 million increase in revenue from other scrap and cores primarily related to higher prices. Segment EBITDA. Segment EBITDA increased $166 million, or 21.3%, for the year ended December 31, 2021 despite the impact of two fewer selling days compared to the prior year period. This increase is attributable to higher precious metals and scrap steel prices, margin initiatives, rightsizing actions and the favorable effect from the revenue recovery compared to the prior year when the COVID-19 impact was more severe. These were partially offset by negative impacts due to aftermarket fill rates and inflationary increases in costs. Increases in precious metals prices contributed an estimated $60 million in Segment EBITDA improvement relative to the year ended December 31, 2020. Additionally, net sequential increases in scrap steel prices in our salvage and self service operations had a $42 million favorable impact on Segment EBITDA for the year ended December 31, 2021, compared to a $16 million favorable impact for the year ended December 31, 2020. This favorable impact for the year ended December 31, 2021 resulted from the increase in scrap steel prices between the date we purchased a vehicle, which influences the price we pay for a vehicle, and the date we scrapped a vehicle, which influences the price we receive for scrapping a vehicle. We estimate that precious metals and scrap steel pricing had a favorable effect of 1.0% on Segment EBITDA margin relative to the comparable prior year period. The following table summarizes the changes in Segment EBITDA as a percentage of revenue in our North America segment: (1)    The increase in gross margin primarily reflected favorable impacts from our wholesale operations. Wholesale operations gross margin was favorable primarily due to the positive impact of higher precious metals and scrap steel prices, pricing initiatives and cost reductions from operational efficiencies and rightsizing efforts. Compared to the prior year, input costs for our wholesale operations have risen, with (i) inflationary pressures impacting product and freight costs in aftermarket and (ii) limited supply combined with heightened competition at auctions contributing to higher salvage costs. We are adjusting prices dynamically to address input cost increases and market conditions such as inventory availability and 48 demand, and, in some cases, we experienced a margin benefit in 2021 as higher prices were enacted ahead of turning the higher cost inventory. (2)    The decrease in segment operating expense as a percentage of revenue on a per day basis primarily reflects (i) a favorable impact of 0.4% from personnel expenses related to headcount reductions, operational efficiencies, and a positive leverage effect, mostly related to the increase in other revenue, partially offset by inflationary cost increases and increased incentive compensation expense and (ii) a positive leverage effect of 0.4% from facility expenses, which are largely fixed. (3)    The unfavorable impact in other expense, net and net income attributable to continuing noncontrolling interest of 0.2% was primarily related to higher insurance proceeds received for the year ended December 31, 2020. Europe Third Party Revenue . The following table summarizes the changes in third party revenue by category in our Europe segment (in thousands): (1) Parts and services organic revenue for the year ended December 31, 2021 increased by 6.2% as the negative pandemic effect on volume in 2020 was more severe than in 2021. Not all regions were impacted by the pandemic at the same time and to the same degree as in 2020, and the easing of lockdown measures has varied across the continent in 2021. These conditions created a different growth profile for each of our European businesses. While most of our businesses reported year over year growth, Central and Eastern Europe, the U.K. and Benelux reported the largest incremental increases for the year ended December 31, 2021. (2) Acquisition and divestiture related decline for the year ended December 31, 2021 was primarily as a result of the disposals of a non-core telecommunications operation in Germany in the second quarter of 2020 and five additional smaller disposals in 2021 and 2020. (3) Compared to the prior year, exchange rates increased our revenue growth by $251 million, or 4.6%, primarily due to the weaker U.S. dollar against the euro, pound sterling and Czech koruna for the year ended December 31, 2021 relative to the prior year period. Segment EBITDA . Segment EBITDA increased $190 million, or 44.5%, for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the prior year period. Our Europe Segment EBITDA included a positive year over year impact of $20 million related to the translation of local currency results into U.S. dollars at higher exchange rates than those experienced for the year ended December 31, 2020. On a constant currency basis (i.e., excluding the translation impact), Segment EBITDA increased by $170 million, or 39.8%, compared to the prior year. Refer to the Foreign Currency Impact discussion within the Results of Operations–Consolidated section above for further detail regarding foreign currency impact on our results for the year ended December 31, 2021. (1)    The increase in gross margin was primarily attributable to a favorable impact of 1.4% as a result of net price increases implemented in response to inflationary pressures that are impacting product and freight costs and other margin improvement initiatives related to procurement. Additionally, there was a 0.2% benefit from the disposal of non-core operations in 2020. 49 (2)    The decrease in segment operating expenses as a percentage of revenue reflects favorable impacts of (i) 0.4% from bad debt expense due to customers' improved solvency and an increase in reserve in the prior year related to the COVID-19 pandemic, (ii) 0.3% from freight, vehicle and fuel expenses due to higher internet and mail order sales in the prior year, which have higher freight costs, and (iii) several individually immaterial factors that had a favorable impact of 0.3% in the aggregate. These were partially offset by personnel costs that had an unfavorable impact of 0.2% compared to the prior year due to government grants received in the prior year to cover employee costs in countries such as the U.K. and Germany (a lesser amount was received in 2021) and increased incentive compensation that was partially offset by a favorable leverage effect and headcount reductions. Specialty Third Party Revenue . The following table summarizes the changes in third party revenue by category in our Specialty segment (in thousands): (1) Parts and services organic revenue increased 20.2% (21.1% on a per day basis) for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the prior year despite two fewer selling days . The organic increase was primarily due to strong demand for our products across all channels of our business. We believe the revenue growth was driven by our competitive advantage with our delivery service teams that enabled us to keep up with the strong demand and have more available inventory than our competitors. (2) Acquisition related growth for 2021 reflected revenue from our acquisitions of four Specialty businesses since the beginning of 2020 through the one-year anniversary of the acquisition dates. Segment EBITDA . Segment EBITDA increased $60 million, or 37.2%, for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the prior year primarily due to increased revenue as noted above and expanded margin as discussed below. The following table summarizes the changes in Segment EBITDA as a percentage of revenue in our Specialty segment: (1)    The increase in gross margin primarily reflects lower discounting to recover increased input costs and, to a lesser extent, favorable product and channel mix. (2)    The decrease in segment operating expenses as a percentage of revenue reflects a favorable impact of (i) 0.3% in personnel costs, partially offset by (ii) an unfavorable impact of 0.2% due to increased incentive compensation. 50 Liquidity and Capital Resources The following table summarizes liquidity data as of the dates indicated (in thousands): (1) Debt amounts reflect the gross values to be repaid (excluding debt issuance costs of $12 million, $26 million, and $30 million as of December 31, 2021, 2020, and 2019, respectively). (2)    Debt amounts reflect the gross values to be repaid (excluding debt issuance costs of immaterial amounts as of December 31, 2021, 2020, and 2019, respectively). (3)    Capacity under credit facilities includes our revolving credit facilities and our receivables securitization facility (through July 30, 2021, at which time the facility was terminated). Availability under credit facilities is reduced by our outstanding letters of credit. We assess our liquidity in terms of our ability to fund our operations and provide for expansion through both internal development and acquisitions. Our primary sources of liquidity are cash flows from operations and our credit facilities. We utilize our cash flows from operations to fund working capital and capital expenditures, with the excess amounts going towards funding acquisitions, paying down outstanding debt, paying dividends, or repurchasing our common stock. As we have pursued acquisitions as part of our historical growth strategy, our cash flows from operations have not always been sufficient to cover our investing activities. To fund our acquisitions, we have accessed various forms of debt financing, including revolving credit facilities, senior notes and a receivables securitization facility (terminated on July 30, 2021). As of December 31, 2021, we had debt outstanding and additional available sources of financing as follows: • Senior secured credit facilities maturing in January 2024, composed of $3,150 million in revolving credit ( $1,887 million outstanding at December 31, 2021), bearing interest at variable rates, with availability reduced by $69 million of amounts outstanding under letters of credit • Euro Notes (2024) totaling $569 million (€500 million), maturing in April 2024 and bearing interest at a 3.875% fixed rate • Euro Notes (2028) totaling $284 million (€250 million) maturing in April 2028 and bearing interest at a 4.125% fixed rate As of December 31, 2021, we had approximately $1,194 million available under our credit facilities. Combined with $274 million of cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2021, we had approximately $1,468 million in available liquidity, a decrease of $1,390 million from our available liquidity as of December 31, 2020, as a result of the following activity . On April 1, 2021, we redeemed the €750 million Euro Notes (2026) with proceeds from borrowings on our revolving credit facility and cash on hand, resulting in a decrease in available liquidity compared to December 31, 2020 . Additionally, in the second quarter of 2021, we used free cash flow generated in our domestic operations and borrowings on our revolving credit facility to repay all of our term loan ($319 million). Also, we terminated our $110 million receivables securitization facility effective July 30, 2021. With these transactions, we reduced our overall liquidity by utilizing available capacity under the revolving credit facility and reducing the overall facility size. We believe our future cash flow needs can be supported by a smaller credit facility, so we redeemed the Euro Notes (2026) and eliminated the term loan using funds from the revolving credit facility, which in turn will lower our interest expense and non-usage fees. Since December 31, 2019, we have lowered the debt balance by $1,248 million. We believe that our current liquidity and cash expected to be generated by operating activities in future periods will be sufficient to meet our current operating and capital requirements. To support our liquidity following the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, we focused on preserving cash during the expected period of reduced demand. Our action plan to strengthen our liquidity position included a deferral of growth driven capital projects, reductions in inventory orders, more active monitoring of customer receivables and terms, income and value added tax deferrals, and suspension of our share buyback program, in 51 addition to the cost saving measures discussed in the "COVID-19 Impact on Our Operations" section above. Given our success in strengthening our liquidity position as of September 30, 2020, we recommenced our share buyback program during the fourth quarter of 2020, and we returned to our stated capital allocation strategy. Our 2022 plan includes further spending to rebuild inventory levels, support growth driven capital projects, and complete strategic acquisitions. Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2021, we expanded our capital allocation strategy to include the payment of dividends as an additional mechanism to return value to our stockholders. On October 26, 2021, the Board of Directors of LKQ declared a cash dividend to stockholders. The quarterly cash dividend of $0.25 per share of common stock was paid on December 2, 2021 to stockholders of record at the close of business on November 11, 2021, for an aggregate payout of $73 million, which is reflected as a financing cash outflow. On February 15, 2022, our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.25 per share of common stock, payable on March 24, 2022, to stockholders of record at the close of business on March 3, 2022. We believe that our future cash flow generation will permit us to continue paying dividends in future periods; however, the timing, amount and frequency of such future dividends will be subject to approval by our Board of Directors, and based on considerations of capital availability, compliance with covenants in our credit facilities and senior note indentures, and various other factors, many of which are outside of our control. Additionally, due to the rapidly evolving global situation, it is not possible to predict whether unanticipated consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic are reasonably likely to materially affect our liquidity and capital resources negatively in the future or alter our capital allocation strategy. With $1,468 million of total liquidity as of December 31, 2021 and $35 million of current maturities, we have access to funds to meet our near term commitments even if the pandemic effect extends longer than our current expectations. We have a surplus of current assets over current liabilities, which further reduces the risk of short term cash shortfalls. Our total liquidity inclu des availability under our senior secured credit facility, which includes the two financial maintenance covenants presented below (our required debt covenants and our actual ratios with respect to those covenants as calculated per the credit agreement as of December 31, 2021): The terms net leverage ratio and minimum interest coverage ratio used in the credit agreement are specifically calculated per the credit agreement and differ in specified ways from comparable US GAAP or common usage terms. Our credit agreement contains customary covenants that impose limitations and conditions on our ability to enter into certain transactions. The credit agreement also contains financial and affirmative covenants, including limitations on our net leverage ratio and a minimum interest coverage ratio. We were in compliance with all restrictive covenants under our credit agreement as of December 31, 2021. The indentures relating to our Euro Notes d o not include financial maintenance covenants, and the indentures will not restrict our ability to draw funds on the credit facility. The indentures do not prohibit amendments to the financial covenants under the credit facility as needed. In the long term, while we believe that we have adequate capacity under our existing credit facilities, from time to time we may need to raise additional funds through public or private financing, strategic relationships or other arrangements, such as (i) our November 2018 amendment to our senior secured credit facility and (ii) the issuance of the €750 million senior notes due 2026 and €250 million senior notes due 2028 the "Euro Notes (2026/28)" in April 2018 related to the Stahlgruber acquisition. There can be no assurance that additional funding, or refinancing of our credit facilities, if needed, will be available on terms attractive to us, or at all. Furthermore, any additional equity financing may be dilutive to stockholders, and debt financing, if available, may involve restrictive covenants or higher interest costs. Our failure to raise capital if and when needed could have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Beginning in 2019, a number of our European suppliers began participating in a supply chain financing initiative in select countries under which they may sell their accounts receivable to the participating financial institutions, allowing us to extend payment terms which in turn improves our operating cash flows. The initiative allows our suppliers to monetize their receivables prior to their payment date, subject to payment of a discount. We expect more suppliers will begin participating in our European supply chain financing initiative in 2022. F inancial institutions participate in the supply chain financing initiative on an uncommitted basis and can cease purchasing receivables from our suppliers at any time. The initiative is at the sole discretion of both the supplier and the financial institution on terms that are negotiated between them. In the future, if the 52 financial institutions did not continue to purchase receivables from our suppliers under the initiative, the participating vendors may need to renegotiate their payment terms with us, which in turn could cause our borrowings under our revolving credit facility to increase. All outstanding payments owed under the initiative to the participating financial institutions are recorded within Accounts payable in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Borrowings under the credit agreement accrue interest at variable rates which are tied to various indices, depending on the currency and the duration of the borrowing, plus an applicable margin rate that is subject to change quarterly based on our reported leverage ratio. As detailed in Note 9, "Long-Term Obligations" to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, certain of the available interest rates were modified in November in connection with the phase out of LIBOR. Borrowings in U.S. dollars will continue to accrue interest at LIBOR until a replacement rate is specified, which is expected to occur prior to June 2023. We do not expect the change in benchmark rates will have a material impact on our results of operations, financial position or liquidity. We have held interest rate swaps to hedge the variable rates on a portion of our credit agreement borrowings, with the effect of fixing the interest rates on the respective notional amounts. In addition, from time to time, we hold currency swaps that contain an interest rate swap component and a foreign currency forward contract component that, when combined with related intercompany financing arrangements, effectively convert variable rate U.S. dollar-denominated borrowings into fixed rate euro-denominated borrowings. These derivative transactions are described in Note 10, "Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities" to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. As of December 31, 2021, we did not have any of these types of contracts outstanding, and the weighted average interest rate on borrowings outstanding under our credit agreement was 1.1% at December 31, 2021. Including our senior notes, our overall weighted average interest rate on borrowings was 2.0% at December 31, 2021. Cash interest payments were $76 million for the year ended December 31, 2021, including interest payments on our Euro Notes (2024) and Euro Notes (2028) as well as the interest owed when we settled the Euro Notes (2026). Interest payments on our Euro Notes (2024) and Euro Notes (2028) are made in April and October. W e had outstanding credit agreement borrowings of $1,887 million and $967 million at December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Of these amounts, there were no current maturities as of December 31, 2021 and current maturities of $18 million at December 31, 2020. As of December 31, 2021, the Company had cash and cash equivalents of $274 million , of which $211 million was held by foreign subsidiaries. In general, it is our practice and intention to permanently reinvest the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries, and that position has not changed following the enactment of the Tax Act and the related imposition of the transition tax on deemed repatriation of historical earnings of foreign subsidiaries as of December 31, 2017. We believe that we have sufficient cash flow and liquidity to meet our financial obligations in the U.S. without repatriating our foreign earnings. We may, from time to time, choose to selectively repatriate foreign earnings if doing so supports our financing or liquidity objectives. Distributions of dividends from our foreign subsidiaries, if any, would be generally exempt from further U.S. taxation, either as a result of the 100% participation exemption under the Tax Act, or due to the previous taxation of foreign earnings under the transition tax and the GILTI regime. The procurement of inventory is the largest operating use of our funds. We normally pay for aftermarket product purchases on standard payment terms or at the time of shipment, depending on the manufacturer and the negotiated payment terms. We normally pay for salvage vehicles acquired at salvage auctions and under direct procurement arrangements at the time that we take possession of the vehicles. 53 The following table sets forth a summary of our aftermarket and manufactured inventory procurement for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019 (in thousands): (1) Inventory purchases across the North America segment have increased for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the prior year period due to the low base as we scaled back buying in recognition of demand changes in 2020. We are rebuilding our inventory levels after decreases in 2020 due to the COVID-19 pandemic, however, they did not reach our desired levels for the year ended December 31, 2021 due to ocean freight driven delays in shipping. (2) The increase in inventory purchases in our Europe segment included an increase of $142 million attributable to the increase in the value of the euro, and to a lesser extent, the pound sterling for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the prior year period. On a constant currency basis, inventory purchases increased compared to 2020, primarily due to the low base as we scaled back buying in recognition of demand changes in 2020. However, we did not reach our desired levels for the year ended December 31, 2021 due to ocean freight driven delays in shipping. (3) The increase in inventory purchases in the Specialty segment was primarily due to required restocking to keep up with the high demand for our products. As shown in the table above, while inventory procurement increased for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to December 31, 2020, procurement is still below pre-pandemic levels for the North America and Europe segments. The following table sets forth a summary of our global wholesale salvage and self service procurement of vehicles for the years ended December 31, 2021, 2020 and 2019 (in thousands): Salvage purchases in 2021 increased relative to the prior year due to reduced buying in the prior year to reflect lower demand during the COVID-19 pandemic. Self service vehicle purchases in 2021 declined due to (i) increased competition in the market due to high costs of precious metals and scrap steel and (ii) the elimination of underperforming locations in accordance with the 2020 Global Restructuring Program. We expect to increase inventory purchases in 2022 to support the service and fill rate requirements of our businesses based on the revenue trend and expectations for full year 2022, including normal seasonality as supply chain challenges in 2021 deferred a portion of the inventory build to 2022 (although if supply chain challenges continue, our ability to increase inventory purchases to the desired level could be affected). 54 The following table summarizes the components of the year-over-year decrease in cash provided by operating activities (in thousands): (1)    Refer to the Results of Operations – Consolidated section for further information on the increase in operating income. (2)    Cash payments related to income taxes increased due to an increase in pretax income and the timing of estimated tax payments. (3)    Decrease in cash payments for interest is due to lower outstanding borrowings and the payoff of the Euro Notes (2026) in April 2021 with proceeds from lower interest rate debt. (4)    Cash flows related to our primary working capital accounts can be volatile as the purchases, payments and collections can be timed differently from period to period. • Receivables, net was a $110 million greater outflow in 2021 primarily due to an increase in revenue for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the year ended December 31, 2020 , which translated to larger net outflows in the North America segment (of $25 million) and in the Europe segment (of $95 million). We had a smaller cash outflow in the Specialty segment (of $10 million). • Inventories represented $668 million in incremental cash outflows for the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to the same period of 2020. The change is primarily attributable to increased inventory purchases in the current year as a result of recovering demand from prior year pandemic lows and strategic inventory purchases to curb the impacts of supply chain constraints. • Accounts payable produced $347 million in highe r cash inflows primarily due to higher accounts payable balances in the North America segment (of $196 million) and in the Specialty segment (of $20 million) due to timing of payments, and in the Europe segment (of $131 million) co mpared to the prior year period, as a result of timing of payments and benefits from extended payment terms, including through our supply chain financing initiatives. (5)    Reflects a number of individually insignificant fluctuations in cash paid for other operating activities. Net cash used in investing activities totaled $419 million and $166 million for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. Property, plant and equipment purchases were $293 million in 2021 compared to $173 million in the prior year. The increase in capital spending in 2021 is partially attributable to the low base as we scaled back asset purchases during the initial stages of the pandemic. Additionally, we increased real estate purchases in 2021 to support our long-term strategic objectives in the salvage business. We invested $124 million of cash, net of cash acquired, in business acquisitions during the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to $7 million during the year ended December 31, 2020. The following table reconciles Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities to Free Cash Flow (in thousands): 55 Net cash used in financing activities totaled $985 million and $1,513 million for the years ended December 31, 2021 and 2020, respectively. During the year ended December 31, 2021, net borrowings totaled $85 million compared to net repayments of our borrowings of $1,365 million during the year ended December 31, 2020. Repayments in 2021 and 2020 include the redemption of the €750 million Euro Notes (2026) and the $600 million U.S. Notes, respectively. We repurchased $877 million of our common stock in the year ended December 31, 2021 compared to $117 million in the year ended December 31, 2020. In 2021, we settled our cross currency swap and other foreign exchange forward contracts with the counterparties for $89 million due primarily to strengthening in the Euro exchange rate relative to the contract rates. We also paid $73 million in dividends to our stockholders during the year ended December 31, 2021 (no dividends were paid in 2020). We intend to continue to evaluate markets for potential growth through the internal development of distribution centers, processing and sales facilities, and warehouses, through further integration of our facilities, and through selected business acquisitions. Our future liquidity and capital requirements will depend upon numerous factors, including the costs and timing of our internal development efforts and the success of those efforts and costs. We have various contractual obligations and commitments arising in the normal course of business. The following represent our anticipated material cash requirements from known contractual and other obligations as of December 31, 2021. • Long-term debt of $2,824 million and related interest totaling $176 million, of which $35 million and $59 million, respectively is expected to be paid within twelve months. See Note 9, "Long-Term Obligations" to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information related to debt amounts outstanding at December 31, 2021. • Operating lease payments of $1,861 million, of which $293 million is expected to be paid within twelve months. See Note 12, "Leases" to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information related to lease amounts outstanding at December 31, 2021. • Purchase obligations of $915 million for open purchase orders for aftermarket inventory all expected to be paid within twelve months. • Net pension obligations of $131 million, of which $5 million is expected to be paid within twelve months. Benefit payments for our funded plans will be made from plan assets, whereas benefit payments for our unfunded plans are made from cash flows from operating activities. See Note 13, "Employee Benefit Plans" to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information related to net pension obligations at December 31, 2021. • Self-insurance reserves of $117 million, of which $61 million is expected to be paid within twelve months. See Note 3, "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies" to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information relates to self-insurance reserves at December 31, 2021.