********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our company. It is possible that our business, financial condition, liquidity, cash flows, or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risks. Certain of these risks could also adversely affect the company's reputation. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently believe to be immaterial could also adversely affect our business and reputation. Risks Related to Our Business • Pharmaceutical research and development is very costly and highly uncertain; we may not succeed in developing, licensing, or acquiring commercially successful products sufficient in number or value to replace revenues of products that have lost or will lose intellectual property protection or are displaced by competing products or therapies. There are many difficulties and uncertainties inherent in pharmaceutical research and development, the introduction of new products, and business development activities to enhance our product pipeline. There is a high rate of failure inherent in new drug discovery and development. To bring a drug from the discovery phase to market can take over a decade and often costs in excess of $2 billion. Failure can occur at any point in the process, including in later stages after substantial investment. As a result, most funds invested in research programs will not generate financial returns. New product candidates that appear promising in development may fail to reach the market or may have only limited commercial success because of efficacy or safety concerns, inability to obtain or maintain necessary regulatory approvals or payer reimbursement or coverage, the application of pricing controls, limited scope of approved uses, label changes, changes in the relevant treatment standards or the availability of new or better competitive products, difficulty or excessive costs to manufacture, or infringement of the patents or intellectual property rights of others. Regulatory agencies establish high hurdles for the efficacy and safety of new products and indications. Delays, uncertainties, unpredictabilities, and inconsistencies in drug approval processes across markets and agencies can result in delays in product launches, lost market opportunity, potential impairment of inventories, and other negative impacts. In addition, it can be very difficult to predict revenue growth rates of or variability in demand for new products and indications. We cannot state with certainty when or whether our products now under development will be approved or launched; whether, if initially granted, such approval will be maintained; whether we will be able to develop, license, or otherwise acquire additional product candidates or products; or whether our products, once launched, will be commercially successful. We must maintain a continuous flow of successful new products and successful new indications or line extensions for existing products, both through our internal efforts and our business development activities, sufficient both to cover our substantial research and development costs and to replace revenues that are lost as profitable products become subject to pricing controls, lose intellectual property exclusivity, or are displaced by competing products or therapies. Failure to do so in the short-term or long-term would have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows, and financial position. We engage in various forms of business development activities to enhance our product pipeline, including licensing arrangements, co-development agreements, co-promotion arrangements, joint ventures, acquisitions, and equity investments. There are substantial risks associated with identifying successful business development targets and consummating related transactions. Increased focus on business combinations in our industry, including by the Federal Trade Commission and competition authorities in Europe and other jurisdictions, and heightened competition for attractive targets has and could continue to delay, jeopardize or increase the costs of our business development activities. In addition, failures or difficulties in integrating or retaining new personnel or the operations of the businesses, products, or assets we acquire (including related technology, commercial operations, compliance programs, information security, manufacturing, distribution, and general business operations and procedures) may affect our ability to realize the expected benefits of business development transactions and may result in our incurrence of substantial asset impairment or restructuring charges. We also may fail to generate the expected revenue and pipeline enhancement from business development activities due to developments outside our control, including unsuccessful clinical trials, issues related to the quality, integrity, or broad applicability of data, regulatory impediments, and commercialization challenges. Accordingly, business 24 development transactions may not be completed in a timely manner (if at all), may not result in successful development outcomes or successful commercialization of any product, and may give rise to legal proceedings or regulatory scrutiny. See Item 1, "Business—Research and Development—Phases of New Drug Development" and Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis—Executive Overview—Late-Stage Pipeline," for more details about our current product pipeline. • We depend on products with intellectual property protection for most of our revenues, cash flows, and earnings; the loss of effective intellectual property protection for certain of our products has resulted, and in the future is likely to continue to result, in rapid and severe declines in revenues for those products. In the ordinary course of their lifecycles, our products lose significant patent protection and/or data protection in the U.S., as well as in key jurisdictions outside the U.S., after a specified period of time. Some products also lose patent protection as a result of successful third-party challenges. We have faced, and remain exposed to, generic competition following the expiration or loss of such intellectual property protection. For example, following the expiration of patent exclusivity for Alimta in Europe and Japan in June 2021, we have faced generic competition that has rapidly and severely eroded revenue from prior levels, and we expect such competition will continue to erode revenue from current levels in these markets. In addition, as a result of the entry of multiple generics in the U.S. following the expiration of patent and pediatric exclusivity for Alimta in in the first half of 2022, we began facing, and expect to continue to face, generic competition that has rapidly and severely eroded revenue from prior levels, and we expect will continue to erode revenue from current levels. Certain other significant products no longer have effective exclusivity through patent protection or data protection. For non-biologic products, loss of exclusivity (whether by expiration of legal rights or by termination thereof as a consequence of litigation) typically results in the entry of one or more generic competitors, leading to a rapid and severe decline in revenues, especially in the U.S. For biologics (such as Humalog, Humulin, Erbitux, Cyramza, Trulicity, Taltz, and Emgality), loss of exclusivity may or may not result in the near-term entry of competitor versions (i.e., biosimilars) due to many factors, including development timelines, manufacturing challenges, and/or uncertainties regarding the regulatory pathways for approval of the competitor versions. Generic pharmaceutical companies could also introduce a generic product before resolution of any related patent litigation. There is no assurance that the patents we are seeking will be granted or that the patents we hold will be found valid and enforceable if challenged. Moreover, patents relating to particular products, uses, formulations, or processes do not preclude other manufacturers from employing alternative processes or marketing alternative products or formulations that compete with our patented products. In addition, competitors or other third parties may assert claims that our activities infringe patents or other intellectual property rights held by them, or allege a third-party right of ownership in our existing intellectual property. See Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis—Executive Overview—Other Matters—Patent Matters," and Item 1, "Business—Patents, Trademarks, and Other Intellectual Property Rights," for more details. • Our long-term success depends on intellectual property protection; if our intellectual property rights are invalidated, circumvented, or weakened, our business will be adversely affected. Our long-term success depends on our ability to continually discover or acquire, develop, and commercialize innovative medicines. Without strong intellectual property protection, we would be unable to generate the returns necessary to support our significant investments in research and development, as well as the other expenditures required to bring new drugs and indications to the market. Intellectual property protection varies throughout the world and is subject to change over time, depending on local laws and regulations. Changes to such laws, regulations, and enforcement practices could reduce protections for our innovative products and indications. For example, potential reforms to pharmaceutical legislation in the European Union may threaten the predictability and length of certain pharmaceutical intellectual property incentives. Changes proposed by the USPTO to limit the number of, and differences between, patents obtained could also affect the scope of patent protection for our products in the U.S. Also in the U.S., in addition to the process for challenging patents set forth in the BPCIA, which applies to biologic products, the Hatch-Waxman Act provides generic companies substantial incentives to seek to invalidate our patents covering pharmaceutical products. As a result, we expect that our U.S. patents on major pharmaceutical products, including biologics, will continue to be routinely challenged in litigation 25 and may not be upheld. In addition, a separate IPR process currently allows competitors to seek invalidation of patents at the USPTO without the protections of the BPCIA or Hatch-Waxman Act. The use of IPR proceedings after the institution of litigation pursuant to the BPCIA or Hatch-Waxman Act is currently a topic of debate among legislators and the future ability of our competitors to use IPR proceedings as an alternative to Hatch-Waxman Act or BPCIA litigation procedures to challenge our patents remains uncertain. Recently, the USPTO issued an interim procedure regarding the use of discretionary denials of IPR proceedings when there is parallel district court litigation. However, it is not clear how this interim procedure could affect the ability of our competitors to institute IPR proceedings after institution of litigation. If our patents are challenged through this expedited review process, even if we prevail in demonstrating the validity of our patent, our win provides limited precedential value at the PTAB and no precedential value in federal district court, meaning the same patent can be challenged by other competitors. We face many generic manufacturer challenges to our patents outside the U.S. as well. The entry of generic competitors typically results in rapid and severe declines in revenues. In addition, competitors or other third parties may claim that our activities infringe patents or other intellectual property rights held by them. If successful, such claims could result in our being unable to market a product in a particular territory or being required to pay significant damages for past infringement or royalties on future sales. In addition, intellectual property protection in certain jurisdictions outside the U.S. is weak and we face additional risks to our intellectual property rights, including competition with generic or counterfeit versions of our products relatively shortly after launch. See Item 1, "Business—Patents, Trademarks, and Other Intellectual Property Rights," and Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 16: Contingencies," for more details. • We and our products face intense competition from multinational pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies, and lower-cost generic and biosimilar manufacturers, and such competition could have a material adverse effect on our business. We compete with a large number of multinational pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies, and generic pharmaceutical companies and, in many cases, our products compete against the leading products of one or more of our competitors. To compete successfully, we must continue to deliver to the market innovative, cost-effective products that meet important medical needs. Our product revenues can be adversely affected by the introduction by competitors of branded products that are perceived as superior by the marketplace, by generic or biosimilar versions of our branded products, and by generic or biosimilar versions of other products in the same therapeutic class as our branded products. Our revenues can also be adversely affected by treatment innovations, including new modalities, that eliminate or minimize the need for treatment with our drugs. Regulation of generic and biosimilar products varies around the world and such regulation is complex and subject to ongoing interpretation and implementation by regulatory agencies and courts. Particularly for biosimilars, health authority guidelines and legislative actions could make it less burdensome for competitor products to enter the market and further incentivize uptake of biosimilars. In the U.S., the FDA has issued several "interchangeability" designations for biosimilar products, and is expected to continue doing so in the future. These designations could – subject to state law requirements – enable pharmacies to substitute biosimilars for innovator biological products. Given the importance of biologic products to our clinical-stage pipeline, such regulation could have a material adverse effect on our business. See Item 1, "Business—Competition" and "Business—Research and Development," for more details. In addition, we rely on our ability to attract, engage, and retain highly qualified and skilled personnel in order to compete effectively. To continue to commercialize our products, and advance the research, development, and commercialization of additional modalities, indications, and product candidates, we have expanded, and will likely need to further expand, our workforce, including in the areas of manufacturing, clinical trials management, regulatory affairs, and sales and marketing, both in and outside the U.S. We continue to face intense competition for qualified individuals from numerous multinational pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology companies, academic and other research institutions, as well as employers near our manufacturing and other facilities, which has and may continue to increase our labor costs. Our ability to attract and retain talent in our increasingly competitive environment may be further complicated by evolving employment trends, including as related to increased preferences for remote or flexible work arrangements; public health outbreaks, epidemics, or pandemics, such as the COVID-19 pandemic; political, social, civil, or cultural unrest; emergence or escalation of, and responses to, war and unrest; or the threat of or perceived potential for any of the foregoing events. Our failure to compete effectively for talent could negatively affect sales of our current and any future 26 approved products, and could result in material financial, legal, commercial, or reputational harm to our business. • Failure, inadequacy, breach of, or unauthorized access to, our IT systems or those of our third-party service providers, unauthorized access to our confidential information, or violations of data protection laws, could each result in material harm to our business and reputation. A great deal of confidential information owned by us or our business partners or other third parties is stored in our information systems, networks, and facilities or those of third parties. This includes valuable trade secrets and intellectual property, clinical trial information, corporate strategic plans, marketing plans, customer information, and personally identifiable information, such as employee and patient information (collectively, confidential information). We also rely, to a large extent, on the efficient and uninterrupted operation of complex information technology systems, infrastructure, and hardware (together, IT systems), some of which are within our control and some of which are within the control of third parties, to accumulate, process, store, and transmit large amounts of confidential information and other data. We are subject to a variety of continuously evolving and developing laws and regulations around the world related to privacy, data protection, and data security. Maintaining the security, confidentiality, integrity, and availability of our IT systems and confidential information is vital to our business. Our failure, or the failure of our third-party service providers, to protect and maintain the security, confidentiality, integrity, and availability of our (or their) IT systems and our confidential information and other data could significantly harm our reputation as well as result in significant costs, including those related to fines, litigation, and obligations to comply with applicable data breach laws. IT systems are vulnerable to system inadequacies, operating failures, service interruptions or failures, security breaches, malicious intrusions, or cyber-attacks from a variety of sources, which may remain undetected for significant periods of time. Such vulnerabilities, inadequacies, or failures are in many cases more acute for IT systems associated with recently acquired businesses, and we may be unable to address such vulnerabilities, inadequacies, or failures immediately after acquiring a business. As a result, our newly acquired businesses could be more vulnerable to potential interruptions, breaches, intrusions, or attacks. Cyber-attacks are growing in their frequency, sophistication, and intensity, and are becoming increasingly difficult to detect, mitigate, or prevent. Cyber-attacks come in many forms, including the deployment of harmful malware, exploitation of vulnerabilities (including those of third-party software or systems), denial-of-service attacks, the use of social engineering, and other means to compromise the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of our IT systems, confidential information, and other data. Breaches resulting in the compromise, disruption, degradation, manipulation, loss, theft, destruction, or unauthorized disclosure or use of confidential information, or the unauthorized access to, disruption of, or interference with our IT systems, products and services, can occur in a variety of ways, including negligent or wrongful conduct by employees or others with permitted access to our systems and information, or wrongful conduct by hackers, competitors, certain governments or nation-states, or other current or former company personnel. Our third-party partners, including third-party providers of data hosting or cloud services, as well as suppliers, distributors, alliances, and other third parties with whom we may share data, face similar risks, which could affect us directly or indirectly. Unassociated third parties present further risks, including by propagating misinformation related to our products, business, and industry. The healthcare industry has been and continues to be a target for cyber-attacks, and the number of threats has increased over time. Numerous federal agencies that monitor and regulate internet and cyber-crime have issued guidance, alerts and directives warning of software vulnerabilities that require immediate patching, malicious actors targeting healthcare-related systems and nation-state sponsored hacking designed to steal valuable information. The failure, inadequacy, or breach of our IT systems or business processes, the compromise, disruption, degradation, manipulation, loss, theft, destruction, or unauthorized access to, disclosure or use of, confidential information, or the unauthorized access to, disruption of, or interference with our products and services that rely on IT systems or business processes, could impair our ability to secure and maintain intellectual property rights; result in a product manufacturing interruption or failure, or in the interruption or failure of products or services that rely on IT systems or business processes; damage our operations, customer relationships, or reputation; undermine integration activities or otherwise delay the launch of acquired products; result in unfavorable clinical trial results by virtue of incorrect or unreliable data; and/or cause us to lose trade secrets or other competitive advantages. Unauthorized disclosure of personally identifiable information could expose us to significant sanctions for violations of data privacy laws and 27 regulations around the world and could damage public trust in our company. In addition, IT system security in jurisdictions outside the U.S. is weaker and may result in additional costs, uncertainties, and risks. To date, system inadequacies, operating failures, unauthorized access, service interruptions or failures, security breaches, malicious intrusions, cyber-attacks, and the compromise, disruption, degradation, manipulation, loss, theft, destruction, or unauthorized disclosure or use of confidential information have not had a material impact on our consolidated results of operations. We maintain cyber liability insurance; however, this insurance may not be sufficient to cover the financial, legal, business, or reputational losses that may result from an interruption or breach of our IT systems. We continue to implement measures in an effort to protect, detect, respond to, and minimize or prevent these risks and to enhance the resiliency of our IT systems; however, these measures may not be successful and we may fail to detect or remediate security breaches, malicious intrusions, cyber-attacks, or other compromises of our systems. Any of these events could result in material financial, legal, commercial, or reputational harm to our business. • Economic downturns or international trade and other global disruptions or disputes could adversely affect our business and operating results. Economic slowdowns could lead to decreased utilization of our products, affecting our sales. Declining tax revenues and increased government spending on other programs attributable to economic downturns increase the pressure on governments to reduce healthcare spending, leading to increased control of drug prices or lower utilization. Additionally, some customers, including governments or other entities reliant upon government funding, may be unable to pay for our products fully or in a timely manner. Also, if our customers, suppliers, or collaboration partners experience financial difficulties, we could experience slower customer collections, greater bad debt expense, and performance defaults by suppliers or collaboration partners. Similarly significant economic downturns could limit our ability to access capital markets. In addition, significant portions of our business are conducted in Europe (including the United Kingdom), Asia (including China), and other international geographies. Trade and other global disputes and interruptions in international relationships, including related to tariffs, trade protection measures, import or export licensing requirements, the imposition of trade sanctions or similar restrictions by the U.S. or other governments, unrest or war, as well as public health outbreaks, epidemics, or pandemics, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, affect our ability to do business. For example, tensions between the U.S. and China have led to a series of tariffs and sanctions being imposed by the U.S. on imports from China mainland, as well as other business restrictions. As a further example, the financial impact of higher energy prices, defense spending, and inflation due, in part, to the Russia-Ukraine war and resulting geopolitical and economic disruptions, particularly following the COVID-19 pandemic, has further exacerbated financial pressures on governments with single-payer or government funded healthcare systems, leading to increased impetus for increases in rebates, clawbacks, and other reforms to reimbursement systems, particularly in Europe. These and similar events have adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, us, our business partners, and our customers. For more details, see Item 1, "Business—Regulations and Private Payer Actions Affecting Pharmaceutical Pricing, Reimbursement, and Access." • Pharmaceutical products can develop unexpected safety or efficacy concerns, which could have a material adverse effect on our revenues, income, and reputation. Pharmaceutical products receive regulatory approval based on data obtained in controlled clinical trials of limited duration. After approval, the products are used for longer periods of time by much larger numbers of patients. Accordingly, we and others (including regulatory agencies and private payers) collect extensive information on the efficacy and safety of our marketed products by continuously monitoring the use of our products in the marketplace. In addition, we or others may conduct post-marketing clinical studies on efficacy and safety of our marketed products. New safety or efficacy data from both market surveillance and post-marketing clinical studies may result in product label changes or other measures that could reduce the product's market acceptance and result in declining sales. Serious safety or efficacy issues that arise after product approval have, and could in the future, result in voluntary or mandatory product recalls or withdrawals from the market. Safety issues have, and could in the future, result in costly product liability claims. 28 • We face litigation and investigations related to our products, how we price our products, and how we commercialize our products; we could face large numbers of claims in the future, which could adversely affect our business, and we are self-insured for such matters. We are subject to a substantial number of claims involving various current and historical products, litigation and investigations. These claims relate to how we commercialize and/or how we price our products, including relating to our 340B drug pricing program, as well as contractual matters and other disputes. See Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 16: Contingencies" for more information on our current product liability litigation, as well as pricing and other litigation, investigations, and inquiries. Because of the nature of pharmaceutical products, we are, and could in the future become, subject to large numbers of product liability claims for our previous, current, or future products, or to further litigation or investigations, including related to pricing or other commercial practices. Such matters could affect our results of operations or require us to recognize substantial charges to resolve and, if involving marketed products, could adversely affect sales of the product and our consolidated results of operations in any given period. Due to a very restrictive market for liability insurance, we are self-insured for litigation liability losses for all of our currently marketed products, as well as for litigation or investigations related to our pricing practices or other similar matters. • Manufacturing, quality, or supply chain difficulties, disruptions, or shortages could lead to product supply problems. Pharmaceutical manufacturing is complex and highly regulated. Manufacturing or quality assurance difficulties at our facilities or those of our contractors and suppliers, the failure or refusal of a supplier or contract manufacturer to supply contracted quantities, or increases in demand on a supplier could result in delays and disruptions in the manufacturing, distribution, and sale of our products and/or product shortages, leading to lost revenue. In select cases, supply constraints may also lead to pauses, discontinuations or other product availability issues in one or more markets, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and cash flows. Further, cost inflation and global transportation and logistics challenges, as well as tight labor markets, have caused, and in the future may cause, delays in, and/or increase costs related to, distribution of our medicines, the construction or other acquisition of manufacturing capacity, procurement activity, and supplier or contract manufacturer arrangements. Such difficulties, disruptions, or challenges could result from quality, oversight, or regulatory compliance problems; natural disasters (including increased instances of natural disasters or other events that may be due to climate change), public health outbreaks, epidemics, or pandemics (such as the COVID-19 pandemic); periods of global economic downturn or uncertainty; emergence or escalation of, and responses to, war or unrest (including the Russia-Ukraine war); equipment, mechanical, data, or IT system vulnerabilities, such as system inadequacies, inadequate controls or procedures, operating failures, service interruptions or failures, security breaches, malicious intrusions, or cyber-attacks from a variety of sources; labor shortages; contractual disputes with our suppliers and contract manufacturers; or inability to obtain single-source or other raw or intermediate materials. Regional dependencies may in some cases accentuate risks related to manufacturing and supply. For example, we, and the pharmaceutical industry generally, depend on China-based partners for integral chemical synthesis, reagents, starting materials, and ingredients. Difficulties in predicting or variability in demand for our products and those of our competitors and the very long lead times necessary for the expansion and regulatory qualification of pharmaceutical manufacturing capacity have resulted, and in the future may result, in difficulty meeting demand for, or disruptions, shortages, and higher costs in the supply of, our products. For example, we have experienced challenges in meeting demand for our incretin products, partially due to the limited availability of competitor therapies. Despite our ongoing efforts to meet significant expected demand by obtaining additional internal and contracted manufacturing capacity, there can be no assurances that such capacity increases will be realized as expected. Delays or challenges in operationalizing additional manufacturing capacity would limit our ability to capitalize on expected demand. Conversely, unexpected contingencies that limit demand for our incretin products would undermine our ability to realize the full benefit of significant capital expenditures that we have incurred, and expect to continue to incur, to augment manufacturing capacity and may also subject us to contractual payment obligations. The foregoing risks and uncertainties could negatively impact our consolidated results of operations and reputation. See Item 1, "Business—Raw Materials and Product Supply," and Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis—Financial Condition and Liquidity" for more details. 29 • We derive a significant percentage of our total revenue from relatively few products and sell our products through increasingly consolidated supply chain stakeholders, which may subject us to, or exacerbate, various risks. We derived direct product and/or alliance revenues of more than $1 billion for each of Trulicity, Verzenio, Taltz, Jardiance (including Glyxambi, Synjardy, and Trijardy XR), Humalog (including Insulin Lispro), our COVID-19 antibodies, and Humulin that collectively accounted for 69 percent of our total revenues in 2022. In particular, Trulicity accounted for 26 percent of our total revenues in 2022 and we expect GLP-1s, including Mounjaro, which we launched in 2022, to represent a significant and growing portion of our business. Loss of patent protection, changes in prescription rates, material product liability litigation, unexpected side effects or safety concerns, significant changes in demand, regulatory proceedings, negative publicity affecting doctor or patient confidence, pressure from existing or new competitive products, changes in labeling, pricing, and access pressures, or supply shortages or disruptions for these products or any of our other major products could materially impact our results of operations. In addition, in the U.S., most of our products are distributed through wholesalers and if one of these significant wholesalers should encounter financial or other difficulties, it might decrease the amount of business the wholesaler does with us or we might be unable to timely collect the amounts that the wholesaler owes us, which could negatively impact our results of operations. See Item 1, “Business—Marketing and Distribution,” for more details. Moreover, the negotiating power of health plans, managed care organizations, pharmacy benefit managers, and other supply chain stakeholders has increased due to consolidation, regulatory, and other market impacts, and they, along with governments, increasingly employ formularies to control costs and encourage utilization of certain drugs, including through the use of formulary inclusion, or favorable formulary placement. Such stakeholders have also increasingly imposed utilization management tools favoring the use of generic products. As these practices expand, including due to potential further consolidation of U.S. private third-party payers, we may face difficulty in obtaining or maintaining timely or adequate pricing or formulary placement of our products. We expect that consolidation of supply chain stakeholders will continue to increase competitive and pricing pressures on pharmaceutical manufacturers. For additional information on pricing and reimbursement for our pharmaceutical products, see "U.S. Private Sector Dynamics" and "Regulations and Private Payer Actions Affecting Pharmaceutical Pricing, Reimbursement, and Access—U.S." • Reliance on third-party relationships and outsourcing arrangements could adversely affect our business. We rely on third parties, including suppliers, distributors, alliances, and collaborations with other pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and third-party service providers, for selected aspects of product and clinical development, manufacturing, commercialization, hosting of, and support for, IT systems, product distribution, and certain financial transactional processes. As examples, we outsource the day-to-day management and oversight of some of our clinical trials to contract research organizations and the distribution of our products through logistics providers. Outsourcing involves many risks, including the risk that the third parties may not perform to our standards or legal requirements, including applicable requirements for diversity in clinical trials; may not produce reliable results; may not perform in a timely manner; may not maintain the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of confidential and proprietary information relating to us, our clinical trial subjects, or patients; may experience disruption or fail to perform due to IT system vulnerabilities, breaches, cyber-attacks, or inadequate controls or procedures; may be unable to satisfy their commitments to us in which case we may not be able to achieve acceptable alternative sourcing; or may fail to perform at all. The foregoing risks may be heightened in jurisdictions outside the U.S., where we may have fewer alternative providers as well as face additional costs, uncertainties, and risks. Failure of third parties to meet their contractual, regulatory, confidentiality, privacy, security, or other obligations to us, our clinical trial subjects, and our patients could have a material adverse effect on our business. • Public health outbreaks, epidemics, or pandemics, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, have adversely impacted and may in the future adversely impact our business and operations. Actual or threatened public health outbreaks, epidemics, or pandemics, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, have adversely impacted and may in the future adversely impact our business and operations. The 30 COVID-19 pandemic has adversely impacted and may continue to adversely impact our business and operations across markets to varying and fluctuating degrees, including as a result of: • Cost inflation and strain on global transportation, manufacturing, and labor markets, which have negatively impacted development, manufacturing, supply, distribution, and sales of our medicines, including through increased costs to provide, and in some cases disruptions in supply or shortages of, our medicines. • Fewer in-person interactions among patients and healthcare providers and our employees with healthcare professionals in certain markets. • Pricing pressures, rebates, clawbacks, and other changes in reimbursement policies and programs resulting, in part, from the financial strain of the COVID-19 pandemic on government-funded healthcare systems around the world. • Risks related to our COVID-19 therapies, including heightened regulatory scrutiny of our manufacturing practices, quality assurance, and similar regulations; restrictions on administration that limit widespread and timely access to our therapies, and risks related to handling, return, and/or refund of product after delivery by us; concerns related to expedited authorization of restricted distribution of products with less than typical safety and efficacy data; and fluctuations in, or elimination of, demand for our COVID-19 therapies, including based on the availability of superior or competitive therapies, preventative measures such as vaccines and antiviral medicines, mutations of the virus impacting effectiveness, revocations or restrictions on EUAs, reaching endemic status in different jurisdictions, reduced government and payer funding for COVID-19 therapies, the unpredictable nature of pandemics, and other developments. These and other risks related to the COVID-19 pandemic and other actual or threatened public health outbreaks, epidemics, or pandemics could affect other aspects of our business or intensify other risks inherent in our business. The degree to which the COVID-19 pandemic could continue to affect us and other actual or threatened public health outbreaks, epidemics, or pandemics could affect us, will depend on developments that are highly uncertain and beyond our knowledge or control, including the duration and severity of the public health threat, the actions taken to reduce its transmission, the introduction and spread of new variants, the degree and extent of government restrictions on economic activity, government spending, and access to healthcare, and the speed with which, and extent to which, economic and operating conditions recover. Should the COVID-19 pandemic, or any other actual or threatened public health outbreak, epidemic, or pandemic, as well as any associated or resulting cost of inflation, supply chain disruption, labor market impact, recession, depression, or other negative contingency, continue for a prolonged period, these risks could be exacerbated, causing further impact on our business and operations. Risks Related to Government Regulation • Our business is subject to increasing government price controls and other public and private restrictions on pricing, reimbursement, and access for our drugs, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, reputation or business. Public and private payers continue to take aggressive steps to control their expenditures for pharmaceuticals by placing restrictions on pricing and reimbursement for, and patient access to, our medicines. These pressures have negatively affected, and could continue to negatively affect, our consolidated results of operations. Governments and private payers worldwide have intensified their scrutiny of, and actions intended to address, pricing, reimbursement, and access to pharmaceutical products. Additional policies, regulations, legislation, or enforcement, including as a result of the regulatory priorities of the current U.S. presidential administration and regulatory authorities worldwide, could adversely impact our business and consolidated results of operations. In particular, if one or more of our significant products are selected under the IRA, the resulting price reduction and reimbursement could negatively impact our business and consolidated results of operations. For more details, see Item 1, "Business—Regulations and Private Payer Actions Affecting Pharmaceutical Pricing, Reimbursement, and Access." Further, restrictive or unfavorable pricing, coverage, or reimbursement determinations for our medicines or product candidates by governments, regulatory agencies, courts, or private payers, such as the Alzheimer’s Monoclonal Antibody NCD, may adversely impact our business and financial results. We 31 continue to experience additional pricing pressures, rebates, clawbacks, and other changes in reimbursement policies and programs resulting from the financial strain of the COVID-19 pandemic, periods of global economic downturn or uncertainty, and the emergence or escalation of, and responses to, war or unrest (including the Russia-Ukraine war). For more details, see Item 1, "Business—Regulations and Private Payer Actions Affecting Pharmaceutical Pricing, Reimbursement, and Access," Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis—Executive Overview—Other Matters—Trends Affecting Pharmaceutical Pricing, Reimbursement, and Access," and Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 16: Contingencies." • Changes in foreign currency rates, interest rate risks, or inflation affect our results of operations. As a global company, we face foreign currency risk exposure from fluctuating currency exchange rates, interest rate risk from our exposure to floating and variable interest rates, and inflation risk from existing and expected rates of inflation in the U.S. and other jurisdictions, each of which impacts our results of operations. In recent periods, significant fluctuations in currency rates and inflation have had a significant negative impact on our results of operations. We are a net receiver of foreign currencies and our results of operations may continue to be adversely impacted if the U.S. dollar remains strong compared to foreign currencies. Further, in the event of an extreme devaluation of local currency in a particular market in which we operate, the price of our products could become unsustainable in the relevant market. Inflationary pressures in recent periods have also negatively impacted us and may continue to negatively impact us in various ways, including cost inflation, higher labor costs, and other higher expenses, with some of these higher expenses due in part to policy actions intended to curb inflation. See Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis—Financial Condition and Liquidity" and Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 1: Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Implementation of New Financial Accounting Standards," for more details. • We are subject to evolving and complex tax laws, which may result in additional liabilities and affect our results of operations. We are subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous other jurisdictions, and in the course of our business, we make judgments about the expected tax treatment of various transactions and events. Changes in tax laws, regulations, administrative practices, principles, and interpretations, as well as events that differ from our expectations, have affected and may adversely affect our effective tax rates, cash flows, and/or results of operations. Significant uncertainty currently exists regarding tax proposals introduced by the current U.S. administration and Congress, including modifications to certain aspects of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017, such as the potential repeal or deferral of the provision requiring capitalization of research and development expenses. In addition, tax authorities in the U.S. and other jurisdictions in which we do business routinely examine our tax returns and are intensifying their scrutiny and examinations of profit allocations among jurisdictions, which could unfavorably impact our results of operations. Further, actions taken with respect to tax-related matters by associations such as the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and the European Commission could influence tax laws in countries in which we operate. Modifications to key elements of the current U.S. or international tax framework could have a significant impact on our effective tax rate, results of operations, and cash flows. See Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis—Executive Overview—Other Matters—Tax Matters" and Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data—Note 14: Income Taxes," for more details. • Regulatory compliance problems could be damaging to the company. The marketing, promotional, and pricing practices of pharmaceutical manufacturers, as well as the manner in which manufacturers interact with purchasers, prescribers, and patients, are subject to extensive scrutiny and regulation. Many companies, including us, are and have been subject to investigations and claims related to these practices asserted by federal, state, and foreign governmental authorities, private payers, and consumers. These investigations and claims have resulted in substantial expense and other significant consequences to us. We are, and could in the future become, subject to such investigations and claims, the outcomes of which include criminal charges and fines, penalties, or other monetary or non-monetary remedies, including exclusion from U.S. federal and other healthcare programs. Such investigations and claims have intensified and may continue to intensify as a result of the regulatory priorities of each particular U.S. presidential administration and other regulatory authorities worldwide. In addition, regulatory issues concerning compliance with cGMP, quality assurance, evolving standards, and increased scrutiny around excipients and potential impurities such as nitrosamines, and 32 similar regulations and standards (and comparable foreign regulations and standards) for our products can lead to regulatory and legal actions, product recalls and seizures, fines and penalties, interruption of production leading to product shortages, import bans or denials of import certifications, delays or denials in new product approvals or line extensions or supplemental approvals of current products pending resolution of the issues, and reputational harm, any of which would adversely affect our business. Regulatory compliance and processes in jurisdictions outside the U.S. may also be less predictable and result in additional costs, uncertainties, and risks. See Item 1, "Business—Government Regulation of Our Operations," for more details. Furthermore, there is an increased focus by foreign, federal, state, and local regulatory and legislative bodies regarding environmental policies relating to climate change, regulating greenhouse gas emissions, carbon taxes, emissions trading schemes, sustainable manufacturing, human rights and equity matters, and disclosure regarding the foregoing, many of which may be ambiguous, inconsistent, dynamic or conflicting. We expect to experience increased restrictions and compliance costs, legal costs, and expenses related to such new or changing legal or regulatory requirements. Moreover, compliance with any such legal or regulatory requirements would require us to devote substantial time and attention to these matters. In addition, we may still be subject to penalties or potential litigation if such laws and regulations are interpreted or applied in a manner inconsistent with our practices. Additionally, we are subject to increased negative attention from the media, stockholders, activists, and other stakeholders on climate change, social, and sustainability matters. The perception that we have failed to act in a socially responsible manner, whether or not valid, results in adverse publicity that can negatively affect our business and reputation, as well as result in increased scrutiny from legislators and regulatory authorities. Moreover, from time to time we establish and publicly announce goals and commitments, including to reduce our impact on the environment. Our ability to achieve any stated environmental, social or governance goal, target or objective is subject to numerous factors and conditions, many of which are outside our control. Examples of such factors include evolving regulatory requirements affecting sustainability standards or disclosures or imposing different requirements, the availability of requisite financing, and the availability of suppliers that can meet our sustainability and other goals. If we fail to achieve, are perceived to have failed or been delayed in achieving, or improperly report our progress toward achieving these goals and commitments, it could negatively affect our reputation or investor confidence, and expose us to enforcement actions and litigation. 33

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

(Tables present dollars in millions, except per-share data) General Management's discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition is intended to assist the reader in understanding and assessing significant changes and trends related to our company's results of operations and financial position. This discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data." Certain statements in this Item 7 constitute forward-looking statements. Various risks and uncertainties, including those discussed in "Forward-Looking Statements" and Item 1A, "Risk Factors," may cause our actual results, financial position, and cash generated from operations to differ materially from these forward-looking statements. EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW This section provides an overview of our financial results, late-stage pipeline developments, and other matters affecting our company and the pharmaceutical industry. Financial Results The following table summarizes our key operating results: Revenue increased in 2022 driven by increased volume, largely offset by lower realized prices and the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates. Research and development expenses increased in 2022, driven primarily by higher development expenses for late-stage assets, partially offset by lower development expenses for COVID-19 antibodies and the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates. Marketing, selling, and administrative expenses in 2022 remained relatively flat compared to 2021 as increased costs associated with launches of new products and indications were offset by the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates. 37 The following highlighted items affect comparisons of our 2022 and 2021 financial results: 2022 Acquired IPR&D and Development Milestones (Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements) • We recognized $908.5 million of acquired IPR&D and development milestones that included the buy-out of substantially all future obligations that were contingent upon the occurrence of certain events linked to the success of our mutant-selective PI3kα inhibitor and a purchase of a Priority Review Voucher. Asset Impairment, Restructuring, and Other Special Charges (Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements) • We recognized charges of $244.6 million primarily related to an intangible asset impairment for GBA1 Gene Therapy (PR001) due to changes in estimated launch timing. Other-Net, (Income) Expense (Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements) • We recognized $410.7 million of net investment losses on equity securities. 2021 Cost of Sales (See Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements) • We recognized a net inventory impairment charge related to our COVID-19 antibodies of $339.7 million. As part of our response to the COVID-19 pandemic, and at the request of the United States (U.S.) and international governments, we invested in large-scale manufacturing of COVID-19 antibodies at risk, in order to ensure rapid access to patients around the world. As the COVID-19 pandemic evolved during 2021, we incurred a net inventory impairment charge primarily due to the combination of changes to demand from U.S. and international governments, including changes to our agreement with the U.S. government, and near-term expiry dates of COVID-19 antibodies. Acquired IPR&D and Development Milestones (Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements) • We recognized $970.1 million of acquired IPR&D and development milestones that included charges resulting from business development transactions with Foghorn Therapeutics Inc. (Foghorn), Rigel Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Rigel), and Precision Biosciences, Inc. (Precision). Asset Impairment, Restructuring, and Other Special Charges (Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements) • We recognized charges of $316.1 million primarily related to an impairment of a contract-based intangible asset from our acquisition of Loxo Oncology, Inc. (Loxo), an intangible asset impairment resulting from the sale of the rights to Qbrexza ® , as well as acquisition and integration costs associated with the acquisition of Prevail Therapeutics Inc. (Prevail). Other-Net, (Income) Expense (Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements) • We recognized a debt extinguishment loss of $405.2 million related to the repurchase of debt. • We recognized $176.9 million of net investment gains on equity securities. 38 Late-Stage Pipeline Our long-term success depends on our ability to continually discover or acquire, develop, and commercialize innovative new medicines. We currently have approximately 45 new medicine candidates in clinical development or under regulatory review, and a larger number of projects in the discovery phase. The following certain new molecular entities (NMEs) are currently in Phase II or Phase III clinical trials or have been submitted for regulatory review or have received regulatory approval in the U.S., Europe, or Japan. The following table reflects the status of certain NMEs, including certain other developments, up to the time of the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K: 39 (1) In collaboration with Almirall, S.A. in Europe. (2) Breakthrough Therapy designation is designed to expedite the development and review of potential medicines that are intended to treat a serious condition where preliminary clinical evidence indicates that the treatment may demonstrate substantial improvement over available therapy on a clinically significant endpoint. (3) Fast Track designation is designed to facilitate the development and expedite the review of medicines to treat serious conditions and fill an unmet medical need. (4) Continued approval may be contingent on verification and description of clinical benefit in confirmatory Phase III trials. 40 Our pipeline also contains several new indication line extension (NILEX) products. The following certain NILEX products for use in the indication described are currently in Phase II or Phase III clinical trials or have been submitted for regulatory review or have received regulatory approval in the U.S., Europe, or Japan. The following table reflects the status of certain NILEX products, including certain other developments, up to the time of the filing of this Annual Report on Form 10-K: (1) In collaboration with Boehringer Ingelheim. (2) Fast Track designation is designed to facilitate the development and expedite the review of medicines to treat serious conditions and fill an unmet medical need. There are many difficulties and uncertainties inherent in pharmaceutical research and development and the introduction of new products, as well as a high rate of failure inherent in new drug discovery and development. To bring a drug from the discovery phase to market can take over a decade and often costs in excess of $2 billion. Failure can occur at any point in the process, including in later stages after substantial investment. As a result, most funds invested in research programs will not generate financial returns. New product candidates that appear promising in development may fail to reach the market or may have only limited commercial success because of efficacy or safety concerns, inability to obtain or maintain necessary regulatory approvals or payer reimbursement or coverage, the application of pricing controls, limited scope of approved uses, label changes, changes in the relevant treatment standards or the availability of new or better competitive products, difficulty or excessive costs to manufacture, or infringement of the patents or intellectual property rights of others. Regulatory agencies establish high hurdles for the efficacy and safety of new products and indications. Delays, uncertainties, unpredictabilities, and inconsistencies in drug approval processes across markets and agencies can result in delays in product launches and lost market opportunity. In addition, it can be very difficult to predict revenue growth rates of or variability in demand for new products and indications. We manage research and development spending across our portfolio of potential new medicines. A delay in, or termination of, any one project will not necessarily cause a significant change in our total research and development spending. Due to the risks and uncertainties involved in the research and development process, we cannot reliably estimate the nature, timing, and costs of the efforts necessary to complete the development of our research and development projects, nor can we reliably estimate the future potential revenue that will be generated from any successful research and development project. Each project represents only a portion of the overall pipeline, and none is individually material to our consolidated research and development expense. While we do accumulate certain research and development costs on a project level for internal reporting purposes, we must make significant cost estimations and allocations, some of which rely on data that are neither reproducible nor validated through accepted control mechanisms. Therefore, we do not have sufficiently reliable data to report on total research and development costs by project, by preclinical versus clinical spend, or by therapeutic category. 41 Other Matters Patent Matters We depend on patents or other forms of intellectual property protection for most of our revenue, cash flows, and earnings. Following the expiration of patent exclusivity for Alimta ® in Europe and Japan in June 2021, we have faced generic competition that has rapidly and severely eroded revenue from prior levels, and we expect such competition will continue to erode revenues from current levels in these markets. In addition, as a result of the entry of multiple generics in the U.S. following the expiration of patent and pediatric exclusivity in the first half of 2022, we began facing, and expect to continue to face, generic competition that has rapidly and severely eroded revenue from prior levels, and we expect will continue to erode revenue from current levels. This decline in revenue will continue to impact period-over-period financial results comparisons, particularly during the first half of 2023. See Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements for a description of legal proceedings currently pending regarding certain of our patents. Our compound patents for Humalog ® (insulin lispro) have expired in the U.S. and major international markets, and we have also introduced lower-priced versions of Humalog as part of our insulin access and affordability solutions. A competitor has a similar version of insulin lispro in the U.S. and in certain European markets. Due to the impact of competition and pricing pressure in the U.S. and certain international markets, we expect that lower revenue for Humalog due to realized price decline will continue over time. Trends Affecting Pharmaceutical Pricing, Reimbursement, and Access Reforms, including those that may stem from periods of economic downturn or uncertainty, or as a result of high inflation, emergence or escalation of, and responses to, war or unrest (including the Russia-Ukraine war), or government budgeting priorities (including as exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic), may continue to result in added pressure on pricing and reimbursement for our products. Global concern over access to and affordability of pharmaceutical products continues to drive regulatory and legislative debate and action, as well as worldwide cost containment efforts by governmental authorities. Such measures include the use of mandated discounts, price reporting requirements, mandated reference prices, restrictive formularies, changes to available intellectual property protections, as well as other efforts. In August 2022, the U.S. government enacted the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (IRA). Among other measures, the IRA will require the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services to effectively set prices for certain single-source drugs and biologics reimbursed under Medicare Part B and Part D. Generally, these government prices apply nine (medicines approved under a New Drug Application) or thirteen (medicines approved under a Biologics License Application) years following initial FDA approval and will be capped at a statutory ceiling price that is likely to represent a significant discount from average prices to wholesalers and direct purchasers. It is too soon to tell how the U.S. government will set these prices as the law specifies a ceiling price, but not a minimum or floor price. One or more of our significant products may be selected, which would have the effect of accelerating revenue erosion prior to patent expiry. The effect of reducing prices and reimbursement for certain of our products would significantly impact our business and consolidated results of operations. The establishment of payment limits or other restrictions by drug affordability review boards and other state level actors would similarly impact us. Other IRA provisions provide for rebate obligations on drug manufacturers that increase prices of Medicare Part B and Part D medicines at a rate greater than the rate of inflation and Part D benefit redesign that includes replacing the Part D coverage gap discount program with a new manufacturer discounting program. Manufacturers that fail to comply with the IRA may be subject to various penalties, including civil monetary penalties, which could be significant. The IRA takes effect progressively starting in 2023, with the first government-set prices effective in 2026. The IRA may meaningfully influence our business strategies and those of our competitors. In particular, the nine-year timeline to set prices for medicines approved under a new drug application may reduce the attractiveness of investment in small molecule innovation. The implications to us of a competitor's product being selected for price setting are also uncertain. Provisions of the IRA may be subject to legal challenges or other reformation, and the full impact of the IRA on our business and the pharmaceutical industry remains uncertain. 42 Additional policies, regulations, legislation, or enforcement, including those proposed and/or pursued by the U.S. Congress, the current U.S. presidential administration, and regulatory authorities worldwide, could adversely impact our business and consolidated results of operations. Consolidation and integration of private payors and pharmacy benefit managers in the U.S. has also significantly impacted the market for pharmaceuticals by increasing payor leverage in negotiating manufacturer price or rebate concessions and pharmacy reimbursement rates. Furthermore, restrictive or unfavorable pricing, coverage, or reimbursement determinations for our medicines or product candidates by governments, regulatory agencies, courts, or private payers, such as the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services' national coverage determination for monoclonal antibodies for the treatment of Alzheimer's Disease, may adversely impact our business and consolidated results of operations. We expect that these actions may intensify and could particularly affect certain products, such as insulin, as governments manage and emerge from the COVID-19 pandemic, which could adversely affect our business. In addition, we are engaged in litigation and investigations related to our 340B program and access to insulin that, if resolved adversely to us, could negatively impact our business and consolidated results of operations. It is not currently possible to predict the overall potential adverse impact to us or the general pharmaceutical industry of continued cost containment efforts worldwide. In addition, regulatory issues concerning compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practices, quality assurance, evolving standards, and increased scrutiny around excipients and potential impurities such as nitrosamines, and similar regulations and standards (and comparable foreign regulations and standards) for our products can lead to regulatory and legal actions, product recalls and seizures, fines and penalties, interruption of production leading to product shortages, import bans or denials of import certifications, delays or denials in new product approvals or line extensions or supplemental approvals of current products pending resolution of the issues, and reputational harm, any of which would adversely affect our business. Moreover, increased focus on business combinations across industries and jurisdictions can lead to impediments to the completion of business combinations. See Item 1, "Business—Regulations and Private Payer Actions Affecting Pharmaceutical Pricing, Reimbursement, and Access" and Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. Product Supply We have faced challenges, and expect to continue to face challenges, meeting strong demand for our incretin products, including due to the limited and fluctuating availability of competitor therapies. In the U.S., given very strong uptake of Mounjaro following its launch in the U.S. for type 2 diabetes in the second quarter of 2022, and as demand for Trulicity ® has remained strong, we have experienced intermittent delays in fulfilling certain U.S. orders for these products. Outside the U.S., we have implemented certain actions to minimize the impact on existing Trulicity patients, but we expect to continue to experience intermittent disruptions in our supply of Trulicity in international markets. We anticipate tight supplies of our incretin products will persist until additional manufacturing capacity is operationalized. We expect additional internal and contracted manufacturing capacity will become fully operational around the world in the next several years, with significant expansion in 2023, as part of our ongoing efforts to meet the significant demand for our incretin medicines. Tax Matters We are subject to income taxes and various other taxes in the U.S. and in many foreign jurisdictions; therefore, changes in both domestic and international tax laws or regulations have affected and may affect our effective tax rate, results of operations, and cash flows. In 2017, the U.S. enacted the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the 2017 Tax Act), which contained a provision that requires capitalization and amortization of research and development expenses for tax purposes starting in 2022. Previously, these expenses could be deducted in the year incurred. The implementation of this provision increased our cash payments of income taxes by approximately $1.20 billion in 2022. While the implementation of this provision will continue to increase our cash payments of income taxes, the increase will moderately decrease from 2022 levels over the five-year amortization period. 43 The U.S. and countries around the world are actively proposing and enacting tax law changes. Further, actions taken with respect to tax-related matters by associations such as the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development and the European Commission could influence tax laws in countries in which we operate. Tax authorities in the U.S. and other jurisdictions in which we do business routinely examine our tax returns and are intensifying their scrutiny and examinations of profit allocations among jurisdictions. Changes to existing U.S. and foreign tax laws and increased scrutiny by tax authorities in the U.S. and other jurisdictions could adversely impact our future consolidated results of operations and cash flows. Foreign Currency Exchange Rates and Other Impacts As a global company, we face foreign currency risk exposure from fluctuating currency exchange rates, primarily the U.S. dollar against the euro, Japanese yen, and Chinese yuan. While we seek to manage a portion of these exposures through hedging and other risk management techniques, significant fluctuations in currency rates can have a material impact, either positive or negative, on our consolidated results of operations in any given period. During the year ended December 31, 2022, revenue was unfavorably impacted by 3 percent due to foreign exchange rates. While there is uncertainty in the future movements in foreign exchange rates, fluctuations in these rates have, and we currently expect in the near-term future will, adversely impact our consolidated results of operations and cash flows. In addition, cost inflation, the strain on global transportation, logistics, and labor markets (including as exacerbated by the COVID-19 pandemic and the emergence or escalation of, and responses to, war or unrest, including the Russia-Ukraine war), global economic downturns or uncertainty, and an increase in overall demand in our industry for certain products and materials have had, and may continue to have, a number of impacts on our business, including increased costs and disruptions in the supply of our medicines. Acquisitions We invest in external research and technologies that we believe complement and strengthen our own efforts. These investments can take many forms, including acquisitions, collaborations, investments, and licensing arrangements. We view our business development activity as a way to enhance our pipeline and strengthen our business. See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion regarding our recent acquisitions. COVID-19 Pandemic As the COVID-19 pandemic evolves, we remain focused on protecting the health, safety, and well-being of our employees; supporting the medical system and our communities; and affordability of and access to our medicines. At the outset of the COVID-19 pandemic, we also focused on researching, developing, and supplying COVID-19 therapies, although we do not currently expect significant further revenue attributable to treatments for COVID-19. The COVID-19 pandemic has adversely impacted and may continue to adversely impact our business and operations across markets to varying and fluctuating degrees, including as a result of cost inflation and strain on the global transportation, manufacturing, and labor markets, fewer in-person interactions among patients and healthcare providers and our employees with healthcare professionals in certain markets, pricing pressures, rebates, clawbacks, and other changes in reimbursement policies resulting from the financial strain of the COVID-19 pandemic on government-funded healthcare systems, and risks related to our COVID-19 therapies. The degree to which the COVID-19 pandemic could continue to affect us will depend on developments that are highly uncertain and beyond our knowledge or control. For additional information, see Item 1A, "Risk Factors—Risk Related to Our Business—Public health outbreaks, epidemics, or pandemics, such as the COVID-19 pandemic, have adversely impacted and may in the future adversely impact our business and operations." See Item 1A, "Risk Factors" for additional information on risk factors that could impact our business and operations. 44 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Operating Results—2022 Revenue The following table summarizes our revenue activity by region: Numbers may not add due to rounding. The following are components of the change in revenue compared with the prior year: Numbers may not add due to rounding. In the U.S. the increase in volume in 2022 was primarily driven by Trulicity, Verzenio, Jardiance, Mounjaro, and Taltz ® , partially offset by decreased volume for Alimta, following the entry of multiple generics in the first half of 2022. In the U.S. the decrease in realized prices was primarily driven by Humalog, due to a list price reduction of insulin lispro injection and unfavorable segment mix, and Trulicity and Basaglar ® , due to unfavorable segment mix and higher contracted rebates. In addition, the decrease in realized prices of Humalog was partially offset by changes to estimates for rebates and discounts in 2021. Outside the U.S. the increase in volume in 2022 was primarily driven by Verzenio, Trulicity, Jardiance, Tyvyt ® , and Taltz, partially offset by a decrease in volume due to generic competition for Alimta and Cymbalta ® and decreased utilization of COVID-19 antibodies. The decrease in realized prices outside the U.S. was primarily driven by the impact of government pricing in China from National Reimbursement Drug List (NRDL) formulary for certain products, particularly Tyvyt and Verzenio, and volume-based procurement (VBP) for Humalog. 45 The following table summarizes our revenue activity in 2022 compared with 2021: Numbers may not add due to rounding. NM - Not meaningful (1) Jardiance revenue includes Glyxambi ® , Synjardy ® , and Trijardy ® XR. (2) Humalog revenue includes insulin lispro. (3) COVID-19 antibodies include sales for bamlanivimab administered alone, for bamlanivimab and etesevimab administered together, and for bebtelovimab and were made pursuant to Emergency Use Authorizations (EUAs) or similar regulatory authorizations. (4) Olumiant revenue includes sales for baricitinib that were made pursuant to EUA or similar regulatory authorizations. Revenue of Trulicity increased 16 percent in the U.S., driven by increased demand, partially offset by lower realized prices due to unfavorable segment mix and higher contracted rebates. Revenue outside the U.S. increased 12 percent, driven by increased volume, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates and, to a lesser extent, lower realized prices. We experienced intermittent delays in fulfilling certain U.S. Trulicity orders during the second half of 2022. Actions to manage strong demand across our incretin portfolio, including measures to minimize existing patient impact in international markets, also affected volume in 2022. Revenue of Verzenio increased 98 percent in the U.S., primarily driven by increased demand. Revenue outside the U.S. increased 61 percent, driven by increased demand, partially offset by lower realized prices primarily due to the impact of the NRDL formulary in China and the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates. Revenue of Taltz increased 12 percent in the U.S., driven by increased demand, partially offset by lower realized prices. Revenue outside the U.S. increased 13 percent, driven by increased volume, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates and lower realized prices. Revenue of Jardiance increased 48 percent in the U.S., primarily driven by increased demand. Revenue outside the U.S. increased 28 percent, primarily driven by increased demand, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates. See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements for information regarding our collaboration with Boehringer Ingelheim involving Jardiance. 46 Revenue of Humalog decreased 10 percent in the U.S., primarily driven by lower realized prices due to a list price reduction of insulin lispro injection and unfavorable segment mix, partially offset by changes to estimates for rebates and discounts in 2021. Revenue outside the U.S. decreased 23 percent, primarily driven by lower realized prices due to the impact of VBP in China and the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates. Due to the impact of competition and pricing pressure in the U.S. and certain international markets, we expect that lower revenue for Humalog due to realized price decline will continue over time. See "—Executive Overview—Other Matters—Patent Matters" for additional information. Revenue of COVID-19 antibodies was $2.01 billion in the U.S. during the year ended December 31, 2022, primarily due to bebtelovimab supplied to the U.S. government. COVID-19 antibodies are not currently authorized for emergency use in the U.S. We do not currently expect significant further revenue attributable to the treatment of COVID-19. Revenue of Alimta decreased 56 percent in the U.S., primarily driven by decreased demand due to the entry of multiple generics in the first half of 2022. Revenue outside the U.S. decreased 54 percent, primarily driven by decreased demand due to generic competition. Following the expiration of patent exclusivity for Alimta in Europe and Japan in June 2021, we have faced generic competition that has rapidly and severely eroded revenue from prior levels, and we expect such competition will continue to erode revenues from current levels in these markets. In addition, as a result of the entry of multiple generics in the U.S. following the expiration of patent and pediatric exclusivity in the first half of 2022, we began facing, and expect to continue to face, generic competition that has rapidly and severely eroded revenue from prior levels, and we expect will continue to erode revenue from current levels. See "—Executive Overview—Other Matters—Patent Matters" for additional information. 47 Gross Margin, Costs, and Expenses Gross margin as a percent of revenue was 76.8 percent in 2022, an increase of 2.6 percentage points compared with 2021, primarily driven by a net inventory impairment charge related to our COVID-19 antibodies recognized in 2021 and the unfavorable effect of foreign exchange rates on international inventories sold in 2021. Additionally, in 2022, favorable product mix, including the impact of lower sales of COVID-19 antibodies and Olumiant for the treatment of COVID-19, were offset by lower realized prices and increased expenses due to inflation and logistics costs. Research and development expenses increased 4 percent to $7.19 billion in 2022, driven primarily by higher development expenses for late-stage assets, partially offset by lower development expenses for COVID-19 antibodies and the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates. Marketing, selling, and administrative expenses remained relatively flat at $6.44 billion in 2022, as increased costs associated with launches of new products and indications were offset by the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates. We have undertaken compensatory actions to improve retention and address wage inflation, which will increase compensation costs and impact our consolidated results of operations. We recognized acquired IPR&D and development milestones of $908.5 million in 2022 that included the buy-out of substantially all future obligations that were contingent upon the occurrence of certain events linked to the success of our mutant-selective PI3kα inhibitor and a purchase of a Priority Review Voucher. We recognized acquired IPR&D and development milestones of $970.1 million in 2021 that included charges resulting from business development transactions with Foghorn, Rigel, and Precision. See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. We recognized asset impairment, restructuring, and other special charges of $244.6 million in 2022, primarily related to an intangible asset impairment for GBA1 Gene Therapy (PR001) due to changes in estimated launch timing. We recognized asset impairment, restructuring, and other special charges of $316.1 million in 2021, primarily related to an impairment of a contract-based intangible asset from our acquisition of Loxo, an intangible asset impairment resulting from the sale of the rights to Qbrexza, as well as acquisition and integration costs associated with the acquisition of Prevail. Other—net, (income) expense was expense of $320.9 million in 2022, primarily driven by net investment losses on equity securities. Other—net, (income) expense was expense of $201.6 million in 2021, primarily driven by a debt extinguishment loss of $405.2 million related to the repurchase of debt, partially offset by net investment gains on equity securities. Our effective tax rate was 8.3 percent in 2022, reflecting the favorable tax impact of the implementation of a provision in the 2017 Tax Act that requires capitalization and amortization of research and development expenses for tax purposes starting in 2022, partially offset by the tax impact of the mix of earnings in higher tax jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate was 9.3 percent in 2021, reflecting the favorable tax impacts of acquired IPR&D and development milestone charges, net investment gains on equity securities, and a net discrete tax benefit. Operating Results—2021 For a discussion of our results of operations pertaining to 2021 and 2020 see Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition" in our Annual Report on for the year ended December 31, 2021. 48 FINANCIAL CONDITION AND LIQUIDITY We believe our available cash and cash equivalents, together with our ability to generate operating cash flow and our access to short-term and long-term borrowings, are sufficient to fund our existing and planned capital requirements, which include: • working capital requirements, including related to employee payroll, clinical trials, manufacturing materials, and taxes; • capital expenditures; • share repurchases and dividends; • repayment of outstanding short-term and long-term borrowings; • contributions to our defined benefit pension and retiree health benefit plans; • milestone and royalty payments; and • potential business development activities, including acquisitions, collaborations, investments, and licensing arrangements. Our management continuously evaluates our liquidity and capital resources, including our access to external capital, to ensure we can adequately and efficiently finance our capital requirements. As of December 31, 2022, our material cash requirements primarily related to purchases of goods and services to produce our products and conduct our operations, capital expenditures, dividends, repayment of outstanding borrowings, milestone and royalty payments, the remaining obligations for the one-time repatriation transition tax (also known as the 'Toll Tax') from the 2017 Tax Act, leases, unfunded commitments to invest in venture capital funds, and retirement benefits (see Notes 11, 4, 14, 10, 7, and 15 to the consolidated financial statements). We anticipate our cash requirements related to ordinary course purchases of goods and services will be consistent with our past levels relative to revenues. In 2022, we committed to invest over several years more than $2 billion in two new facilities in Lebanon, Indiana to manufacture existing and future products, more than $1 billion in a new facility in Concord, North Carolina to manufacture parenteral (injectable) products and devices, and more than 400 million euro in a new facility in Limerick, Ireland to expand our manufacturing network for biologic active ingredients. In early 2023, we committed to invest an additional $450 million to expand manufacturing capacity at Research Triangle Park facility in Durham, North Carolina for additional parenteral filling, device assembly, and packaging capacity. These investments, and other capital investments that support our operations, will result in higher capital expenditures for the next several years. The 2017 Tax Act contained a provision that requires us to capitalize and amortize research and development expenses for tax purposes starting in 2022, whereas previously we could fully deduct these expenses in the year incurred. The implementation of this provision increased our cash payments of income taxes by approximately $1.20 billion in 2022. While the implementation of this provision will continue to increase our cash payments of income taxes, the increase will moderately decrease from 2022 levels over the five-year amortization period. See "—Executive Overview—Other Matters—Tax Matters" for additional information. Cash and cash equivalents decreased to $2.07 billion as of December 31, 2022, compared with $3.82 billion at December 31, 2021. Net cash provided by operating activities was $7.08 billion in 2022, compared with $7.26 billion in 2021. Refer to the consolidated statements of cash flows for additional information on the significant sources and uses of cash for the years ended December 31, 2022 and 2021. In addition to our cash and cash equivalents, we held total investments of $3.05 billion and $3.30 billion as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. See Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. In December 2022, we acquired all shares of Akouos, Inc. (Akouos) for a purchase price that included $12.50 per share in cash (or an aggregate of $327.2 million, net of cash acquired) plus one non-tradable contingent value right (CVR) per share. The CVR entitles Akouos shareholders up to an additional $3.00 per share in cash (or an aggregate of approximately $122 million) payable, subject to certain terms and conditions, upon the achievement of certain specified milestones. This acquisition was funded through cash on hand. See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. 49 As of December 31, 2022, total debt was $16.24 billion, a decrease of $646.1 million compared with $16.88 billion at December 31, 2021. See Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. As of December 31, 2022, we had a total of $7.33 billion of unused committed bank credit facilities, $7.00 billion of which is available to support our commercial paper program. See Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. We believe that amounts accessible through existing commercial paper markets should be adequate to fund short-term borrowing needs. Dividends of $3.92 per share and $3.40 per share were paid in 2022 and 2021, respectively. The quarterly dividend was increased to $1.13 per share effective for the dividend to be paid in the first quarter of 2023, resulting in an indicated annual rate for 2023 of $4.52 per share. Capital expenditures were $1.85 billion during 2022, compared to $1.31 billion in 2021. In 2022, we repurchased $1.50 billion of shares under our $5.00 billion share repurchase program authorized in May 2021. As of December 31, 2022, we had $3.25 billion remaining under this program. See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. See "—Executive Overview—Other Matters—Patent Matters" for information regarding recent losses of patent protection. Both domestically and abroad, we continue to monitor the potential impacts of the economic environment; the creditworthiness of our wholesalers and other customers, including foreign government-backed agencies and suppliers; the uncertain impact of healthcare legislation; and various international government funding levels. In the normal course of business, our operations are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates, currency values, and fair values of equity securities. These fluctuations impact the costs of financing, investing, and operating. We seek to address a portion of these risks through a controlled program of risk management that includes the use of derivative financial instruments. The objective of this risk management program is to limit the impact on earnings of fluctuations in interest and currency exchange rates. All derivative activities are for purposes other than trading. Our primary interest rate risk exposure results from changes in short-term U.S. dollar interest rates. In an effort to manage interest rate exposures, we strive to achieve an acceptable balance between fixed and floating rate debt positions and may enter into interest rate derivatives to help maintain that balance. As of December 31, 2022, substantially all of our total long-term debt carries interest at a fixed rate. We have converted approximately 10 percent of our long-term fixed-rate notes to floating rates through the use of interest rate swaps. Based on our overall interest rate exposure at December 31, 2022 and 2021, including derivatives and other interest rate risk-sensitive instruments, a hypothetical 10 percent change in interest rates applied to the fair value of the instruments as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively, would not have a material impact on earnings, cash flows, or fair values of interest rate risk-sensitive instruments over a one-year period. Our foreign currency risk exposure results from fluctuating currency exchange rates, primarily the U.S. dollar against the euro, Japanese yen, and Chinese yuan. We face foreign currency exchange exposures when we enter into transactions arising from subsidiary trade and loan payables and receivables denominated in foreign currencies. We also face currency exposure that arises from translating the results of our global operations to the U.S. dollar at exchange rates that have fluctuated from the beginning of the period. We may enter into foreign currency forward or option derivative contracts to reduce the effect of fluctuating currency exchange rates (primarily the euro, the Japanese yen, and Chinese yuan). Our corporate risk-management policy outlines the minimum and maximum hedge coverage of such exposures. Gains and losses on these derivative contracts offset, in part, the impact of currency fluctuations on the existing assets and liabilities. We periodically analyze the fair values of the outstanding foreign currency derivative contracts to determine their sensitivity to changes in foreign exchange rates. A hypothetical 10 percent change in exchange rates (primarily against the U.S. dollar) applied to the fair values of our outstanding foreign currency derivative contracts as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, would not have a material impact on earnings, cash flows, or financial position over a one-year period. This sensitivity analysis does not consider the impact that hypothetical changes in exchange rates would have on the underlying foreign currency denominated transactions. Our fair value risk exposure relates primarily to our public equity investments and to equity investments that do not have readily determinable fair values. As of December 31, 2022 and 2021, our carrying values of these investments were $1.16 billion and $1.83 billion, respectively. A hypothetical 20 percent change in fair value of the equity instruments would have impacted other-net, (income) expense by $232.4 million and $365.6 million as of December 31, 2022 and 2021, respectively. 50 We have no off-balance sheet arrangements that have a material current effect or that are reasonably likely to have a material future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources. We acquire and collaborate on potential products still in development and enter into research and development arrangements with third parties that often require milestone and royalty payments to the third party contingent upon the occurrence of certain future events linked to the success of the asset in development. Milestone payments may be required contingent upon the successful achievement of an important point in the development life cycle of the pharmaceutical product (e.g., approval for marketing by the appropriate regulatory agency or upon the achievement of certain sales levels). If required by the arrangement, we may make royalty payments based upon a percentage of the sales of the product in the event that regulatory approval for marketing is obtained. Individually, these arrangements are generally not material in any one annual reporting period. However, if milestones for multiple products covered by these arrangements were reached in the same reporting period, the aggregate expense or aggregate milestone payments made could be material to our results of operations or cash flows, respectively, in that period. See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. These arrangements often give us the discretion to unilaterally terminate development of the product, which would allow us to avoid making the contingent payments; however, we are unlikely to cease development if the compound successfully achieves milestone objectives. We view these payments as positive because they signify that the product is successfully moving through development and is now generating or is more likely to generate cash flows from sales of products. As we expand our manufacturing capacity in order to meet existing and expected demand of our incretin products, we have entered, and expect to continue to enter, into various agreements for contract manufacturing and for supply of materials. The executed agreements could, under certain circumstances, require us to pay up to approximately $4.5 billion if we do not purchase specified amounts of goods or services over the durations of the agreements, which generally range from 2 to 8 years. 51 APPLICATION OF CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES In preparing our financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., we must often make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses, and related disclosures. Some of those judgments can be subjective and complex, and consequently actual results could differ from those estimates. For any given individual estimate or assumption we make, it is possible that other people applying reasonable judgment to the same facts and circumstances could develop different estimates. We believe that, given current facts and circumstances, it is unlikely that applying any such other reasonable judgment would cause a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position, or liquidity for the periods presented in this report. Our most critical accounting estimates have been discussed with our audit committee and are described below. Revenue Recognition and Sales Return, Rebate, and Discount Accruals Background and Uncertainties We recognize revenue primarily from two different types of contracts, product sales to customers (net product revenue) and collaborations and other arrangements. For product sales to customers, provisions for returns, rebates and discounts are established in the same period the related product sales are recognized. To determine the appropriate transaction price for our product sales at the time we recognize a sale to a direct customer, we estimate any rebates or discounts that ultimately will be due to the direct customer and other customers in the distribution chain under the terms of our contracts. Significant judgments are required in making these estimates. The largest of our sales rebate and discount amounts include rebates associated with sales covered by managed care, Medicare, Medicaid, and chargeback programs, as well as reductions in revenue related to our patient assistance programs, in the U.S. In determining the appropriate accrual amount, we consider our historical rebate payments for these programs, as well as patient assistance program costs, by product as a percentage of our historical sales as well as any significant changes in sales trends (e.g., patent expiries and product launches), an evaluation of the current contracts for these programs, the percentage of our products that are sold via these programs, and our product pricing. Refer to Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for further information on revenue recognition and sales return, rebate, and discount accruals. Revenue recognized from collaborations and other arrangements will include our share of profits from the collaboration, as well as royalties, upfront and milestone payments we receive under these types of contracts. Financial Statement Impact We believe that our accruals for sales returns, rebates, and discounts are reasonable and appropriate based on current facts and circumstances. Our rebate and discount liabilities are included in sales rebates and discounts on our consolidated balance sheet. Our sales return liability is included in other current liabilities and other noncurrent liabilities on our consolidated balance sheet. As of December 31, 2022, a 5 percent change in our consolidated sales return, rebate, and discount liability would result in a change in revenue of approximately $464 million. The portion of our consolidated sales return, rebate, and discount liability resulting from sales of our products in the U.S. was approximately 90 percent as of December 31, 2022 and 2021. The following represents a roll-forward of our most significant U.S. sales return, rebate, and discount liability balances, including managed care, Medicare, Medicaid, chargeback, and patient assistance programs: (1) Adjustments of the estimates for these returns, rebates, and discounts to actual results were less than 1 percent of consolidated revenue for each of the years presented. Increase in reduction of net sales in 2022 was primarily driven by our incretin products due to increase in our patient assistance programs and in volume of rebates for managed care, Medicare and Medicaid programs. 52 Litigation Liabilities and Other Contingencies Background and Uncertainties Litigation liabilities and other contingencies are, by their nature, uncertain and based upon complex judgments and probabilities. The factors we consider in developing our litigation liability reserves and other contingent liability amounts include the merits and jurisdiction of the litigation, the nature and the number of other similar current and past matters, the nature of the product and the current assessment of the science subject to the litigation, as applicable, and the likelihood of settlement and current state of settlement discussions, if any. In addition, we accrue for certain liability claims incurred, but not filed, to the extent we can formulate a reasonable estimate of their costs based primarily on historical claims experience and data regarding product usage. We also consider the insurance coverage we have to diminish the exposure for periods covered by insurance. In assessing our insurance coverage, we consider the policy coverage limits and exclusions, the potential for denial of coverage by the insurance company, the financial condition of the insurers, and the possibility of and length of time for collection. Due to a very restrictive market for litigation liability insurance, we are self-insured for litigation liability losses for all our currently marketed products. In addition to insurance coverage, we consider any third-party indemnification to which we are entitled or under which we are obligated. With respect to our third-party indemnification rights, these considerations include the nature of the indemnification, the financial condition of the indemnifying party, and the possibility of and length of time for collection. The litigation accruals and environmental liabilities and the related estimated insurance recoverables have been reflected on a gross basis as liabilities and assets, respectively, on our consolidated balance sheets. Acquisitions Background and Uncertainties To determine whether acquisitions or licensing transactions should be accounted for as a business combination or as an asset acquisition, we make certain judgments, which include assessing whether the acquired set of activities and assets would meet the definition of a business under the relevant accounting rules. If the acquired set of activities and assets meets the definition of a business, assets acquired and liabilities assumed are required to be recorded at their respective fair values on our consolidated balance sheet as of the acquisition date. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the acquired net assets, where applicable, is recorded as goodwill. If the acquired set of activities and assets does not meet the definition of a business, the transaction is recorded as an acquisition of assets and, therefore, any acquired IPR&D that does not have an alternative future use is charged to acquired IPR&D and development milestones on our consolidated statement of operations at the acquisition date, and goodwill is not recorded. See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information. The judgments made in determining estimated fair values assigned to assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination, as well as estimated asset lives, can materially affect our consolidated results of operations. The fair values of intangible assets, including acquired IPR&D, are determined using information available near the acquisition date based on estimates and assumptions that are deemed reasonable by management. Significant estimates and assumptions include, but are not limited to, probability of technical success, revenue projections, and discount rate. Depending on the facts and circumstances, we may deem it necessary to engage an independent valuation expert to assist in valuing significant assets and liabilities. The fair values of identifiable intangible assets are primarily determined using an "income method," as described in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. The fair value of any contingent consideration liability that results from a business combination is primarily determined using a discounted cash flow analysis, as described in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements. Estimating the fair value of contingent consideration requires the use of significant estimates and judgments, including, but not limited to, probability of technical success and the discount rate. Financial Statement Impact As of December 31, 2022, a 5 percent change in the contingent consideration liabilities would result in a change in income before income taxes of $5.5 million. 53 Impairment of Indefinite-Lived and Long-Lived Assets Background and Uncertainties We review the carrying value of long-lived assets (both intangible and tangible) for potential impairment on a periodic basis and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of an asset (or asset group) may not be recoverable. We identify impairment by comparing the projected undiscounted cash flows to be generated by the asset (or asset group) to its carrying value. If an impairment is identified, a loss is recorded equal to the excess of the asset's net book value over its fair value, and the cost basis is adjusted. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are reviewed for impairment at least annually, or more frequently if impairment indicators are present, by first assessing qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of the intangible asset is less than its carrying amount. If we conclude it is more likely than not that the fair value is less than the carrying amount, a quantitative test that compares the fair value of the intangible asset to its carrying value is performed to determine the amount of any impairment. Several methods may be used to determine the estimated fair value of acquired IPR&D, all of which require multiple assumptions. We utilize the "income method," as described in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements. For acquired IPR&D assets, the risk of failure has been factored into the fair value measure and there can be no certainty that these assets ultimately will yield a successful product, as discussed previously in "—Executive Overview—Late-Stage Pipeline." The nature of the pharmaceutical business is high-risk and requires that we invest in a large number of projects to maintain a successful portfolio of approved products. As such, it is likely that some acquired IPR&D assets will become impaired in the future. Estimates of future cash flows, based on what we believe to be reasonable and supportable assumptions and projections, require management's judgment. Actual results could vary materially from these estimates. Retirement Benefits Assumptions Background and Uncertainties Defined benefit pension plan and retiree health benefit plan costs include assumptions for the discount rate, expected return on plan assets, and retirement age. These assumptions have a significant effect on the amounts reported. In addition to the analysis below, see Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding our retirement benefits. Annually, we evaluate the discount rate and the expected return on plan assets in our defined benefit pension and retiree health benefit plans. We use an actuarially determined, plan-specific yield curve of high quality, fixed income debt instruments to determine the discount rates. In evaluating the expected return on plan assets, we consider many factors, with a primary analysis of current and projected market conditions, asset returns and asset allocations (approximately 70 percent of which are growth investments), and the views of leading financial advisers and economists. We may also review our historical assumptions compared with actual results, as well as the discount rates and expected return on plan assets of other companies, where applicable. In evaluating our expected retirement age assumption, we consider the retirement ages of our past employees eligible for pension and medical benefits together with our expectations of future retirement ages. Annually, we determine the fair value of the plan assets in our defined benefit pension and retiree health benefit plans. Approximately 50 percent of our plan assets are in hedge funds and private equity-like investment funds (collectively, alternative assets). We value these alternative investments using significant unobservable inputs or using the net asset value reported by the counterparty, adjusted as necessary. Inputs include underlying net asset values, discounted cash flows valuations, comparable market valuations, and adjustments for currency, credit, liquidity and other risks. 54 Financial Statement Impact If the 2022 discount rate for the U.S. defined benefit pension and retiree health benefit plans (U.S. plans) were to change by a quarter percentage point, income before income taxes would change by $23.8 million. If the 2022 expected return on plan assets for U.S. plans were to change by a quarter percentage point, income before income taxes would change by $33.5 million. If our assumption regarding the 2022 expected age of future retirees for U.S. plans were adjusted by one year, our income before income taxes would be affected by $46.3 million. The U.S. plans, including Puerto Rico, represent approximately 85 percent of each of the total projected benefit obligation and total plan assets at December 31, 2022. Adjustments to the fair value of plan assets are not recognized in pension and retiree health benefit expense in the year that the adjustments occur. Such changes are deferred, along with other actuarial gains and losses, and are amortized into expense over the expected remaining service life of employees. Income Taxes Background and Uncertainties We file tax returns based upon our interpretation of tax laws and regulations, and we record estimates in our financial statements based upon these interpretations at the applicable tax rates in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Our tax returns are routinely subject to examination by taxing authorities, which could result in future tax, interest, and penalty assessments. Inherent uncertainties also exist in estimates of many tax positions due to the complexity of tax laws. We recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be sustained upon examination by the taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such a position are measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50 percent likelihood of being realized upon ultimate resolution. The amount of unrecognized tax benefits is adjusted for changes in facts and circumstances such as changes to existing tax law, the issuance of regulations by taxing authorities, new information obtained during a tax examination, or resolution of a tax examination. We believe our estimates for uncertain tax positions are both appropriate and sufficient to pay assessments that may result from examinations of our tax returns. We recognize both accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense. We have recorded valuation allowances against certain of our deferred tax assets, primarily those that have been generated from net operating losses, tax credits, and other tax carryforwards and carrybacks in certain taxing jurisdictions. In evaluating whether we would more likely than not recover these deferred tax assets, we have not assumed future taxable income in the jurisdictions associated with these carryforwards where history does not support such an assumption. Implementation of tax planning strategies to recover these deferred tax assets or to generate future taxable income in these jurisdictions could lead to the reversal of all or a portion of these valuation allowances and a reduction of income tax expense. Financial Statement Impact As of December 31, 2022, a 5 percent change in the amount of uncertain tax positions and the valuation allowance would result in a change in net income of $85.0 million and $38.8 million, respectively. LEGAL AND REGULATORY MATTERS Information relating to certain legal proceedings can be found in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements and is incorporated here by reference.