********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

You should carefully consider each of the risks described below relating to Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL, together with all of the other information contained in this combined report, before making an investment decision with respect to our securities.  If any of the following risks develop into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Business Operations The outbreak of the novel coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic could adversely affect our business functions, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows - The continued spread of COVID-19 has resulted in widespread impacts on the economy and could lead to a prolonged reduction in economic activity, disruptions to supply chains and capital markets, and reduced labor availability and productivity.  The COVID-19 pandemic has impacted and may continue to impact the economic conditions in our service territories, which may adversely impact our sales and our customers’ abilities to pay their bills.  Travel and transportation restrictions and closures of commercial spaces and industrial facilities have been imposed in and across the U.S., including in the service territories in which we operate.  Governmental and regulatory responses to COVID-19 include suspending service disconnects, which may increase customer account arrears, possibly increasing our allowance for expected credit losses and decreasing our cash flows. Closures of commercial spaces and industrial facilities may result in a reduction in demand of electricity and natural gas from commercial and industrial customers.  The negative impacts on the economy could adversely impact the market value of the assets that fund our pension plans, which could necessitate accelerated funding of the plans to meet minimum federal government requirements.  The negative impacts on the economy could also adversely impact the ability of counterparties to meet contractual payment obligations, including guarantees, or deliver contracted commodities and other goods or services at the contracted price, which could increase company expenses.  Our access to the capital markets could be adversely affected by COVID-19, which could cause us to need alternative sources of funding for our operations and for working capital, any of which could increase our cost of capital. Travel bans and restrictions, quarantines, shelter in place orders and shutdowns may cause disruptions in supply chains or access to labor that may adversely impact our planned construction projects, our ability to satisfy compliance requirements, or our operations, including our ability to maintain reliable electric and gas service.  This may cause us to miss milestones on construction projects and experience operational delays, which, in the case of renewable energy projects, could delay our completion of such projects past the in-service dates required to qualify for the maximum general renewable tax credits for investments in such renewable energy projects.  We have modified certain business practices to be consistent with government restrictions and best practices encouraged by government and regulatory authorities and developed risk mitigation plans for critical items and services required to continue our operations.  The effects of these government restrictions could adversely impact implementation of our regulatory plans and our operations.  If our workforce contracts COVID-19, it could negatively impact our operations, including our ability to maintain reliable electric and gas service. The degree to which COVID-19 may impact our business operations, financial condition and results of operations is unknown at this time and will depend on future developments, including the ultimate geographic spread of COVID-19, the severity of the disease, the duration of the outbreak, possible resurgence of the disease at a later date, emergence of variants, speed, efficacy and adoption rates of vaccines, and further actions that may be taken by governmental and regulatory authorities. A cyber attack may disrupt our operations or lead to a loss or misuse of confidential and proprietary information or potential liability - We operate in an industry that requires the continuous use and operation of sophisticated information technology systems and network infrastructure.  We face threats from use of malicious code (such as malware, viruses and ransomware), employee theft or misuse, advanced persistent threats, and phishing attacks.  More of our workforce is working remotely due to the COVID-19 pandemic, which has increased the number of devices connected to the internet that impact our operations and therefore increase our exposure to a cyber attack.  Cyber attacks targeting electronic control systems used at our generating facilities and for electric and gas distribution systems could result in a full or partial disruption of our electric and/or gas operations.  We have relied on a global supply chain for certain components of our operating and technology systems, which may increase our exposure to cyber attacks.  Any disruption of these operations could result in a loss of service to customers and a significant decrease in revenues, as well as significant expense to repair system damage and remedy security breaches.  Due to the evolving nature of cyber attacks and cyber security, our current safeguards to protect our operating systems and information technology assets may not always be effective.  We rely on third parties for software to protect against cyber attacks and we are at risk if such third parties are targets of cyber attacks.  If the technology systems were to fail or be breached by a cyber attack or a computer virus, and not be recovered in a timely fashion, we may be unable to fulfill critical business functions and confidential data could be compromised, adversely impacting our financial condition and results of operation. In addition, we may collect and retain sensitive information, including personal information about our customers, shareowners and employees.  In some cases, we outsource administration of certain functions to vendors that could be targets of cyber attacks.  For example, we outsource administration of our employee health insurance to Anthem, which was the target of a cyber attack in 2014.  Any theft, loss and/or fraudulent use of customer, shareowner, employee or proprietary data as a result of a cyber attack could subject us to significant litigation, liability and costs, as well as adversely impact our reputation with customers and regulators, among others. Demand for energy may decrease - Our results of operations are affected by the demand for energy in our service territories.  Energy demand may decrease due to many things, including proliferation of customer and third party-owned generation, technological advances that reduce the costs of renewable energy and storage solutions for our customers, loss of service territory or franchises, energy efficiency measures, technological advances that increase energy efficiency, third-party disrupters, loss of wholesale customers, the adverse impact of tariffs on our customers, and economic conditions.  The loss of sales due to lower demand for energy may increase our rates for remaining customers, as our rates must cover our fixed costs.  Increased customer rates may cause decreased demand for energy as customers move to customer and third party-owned generation and implement energy efficiency measures to reduce costs.  The loss of customers, the inability to replace those customers with new customers, and the decrease in demand for energy could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our strategy includes large construction projects, which are subject to risks - Our strategy includes constructing renewable generating facilities and large-scale additions and upgrades to our electric and gas distribution systems.  These construction projects are subject to various risks.  These risks include: the inability to obtain necessary permits in a timely manner; adverse interpretation or enforcement of permit conditions; changes in applicable laws or regulations; changes in costs of materials, equipment, commodities, fuel or labor; delays caused by construction accidents or injuries; shortages in materials, equipment and qualified labor; changes to the scope or timing of the projects; general contractors or subcontractors not performing as required under their contracts; the inability to agree to contract terms or disputes in contract terms; poor initial cost estimates; work stoppages; adverse weather conditions; government actions; legal action; unforeseen engineering or technology issues; limited access to capital or other proposed financing arrangements such as tax equity financing; and other adverse economic conditions.  We may not be able to recover all costs for the projects in rates and face increased risk of potential impairment of our project investment if a construction project is not completed or is delayed, or final costs exceed expectations or the costs approved by our regulators.  Inability to recover costs, or inability to complete projects in a timely manner, could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our utility business is seasonal and may be adversely affected by the impacts of weather - Electric and gas utility businesses are seasonal businesses.  Demand for electricity is greater in the summer months associated with higher air conditioning needs and winter months associated with higher heating needs.  Demand for natural gas depends significantly upon temperature patterns in winter months due to heavy use in residential and commercial heating.  As a result, our overall operating results in the future may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis.  In addition, we have historically generated less revenues and income when temperatures are warmer in the winter and/or cooler in the summer.  Thus, mild winters and/or summers could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We face risks associated with operating electric and natural gas infrastructure - The operation of electric generation and distribution infrastructure involves many risks, including start-up risks, breakdown or failure of equipment, fires developing from our power lines, transformers or substations, dam failure at one of our hydroelectric facilities, the dependence on a specific fuel source, including the supply and transportation of fuel, the risk of performance below expected or contracted levels of output or efficiency, public and employee safety, operator error and ruptured oil and chemical tanks.  The operation of our natural gas transmission and distribution infrastructure also involves many risks, such as leaks, explosions, mechanical problems and employee and public safety.  Our electric and natural gas infrastructure is aging, which increases certain of these risks.  In addition, the North American electric transmission grid is highly interconnected and, in extraordinary circumstances, disruptions at particular points within the grid could cause an extensive power outage in our service territories. Increased utilization of customer- and third party-owned generation technologies could also disrupt the reliability and balance of the electricity grid.  Further, the electric transmission system in our utilities’ service territories can experience constraints, limiting the ability to transmit electricity within our service territories.  The transmission constraints could result in an inability to deliver electricity from generating facilities, particularly wind generating facilities, to the national grid, or to access lower cost sources of electricity. These risks could cause significant harm to employees and customers including loss of human life, significant damage to property, adverse impacts on the environment and impairment of our operations, all of which could result in substantial financial losses to us.  We are also responsible for compliance with new and changing regulatory standards involving safety, reliability and environmental compliance, including regulations under the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration.  Failure to meet these regulatory standards could result in substantial fines.  Lastly, we have obligations to provide electric and natural gas service to customers under regulatory requirements and contractual commitments.  Failure to meet our service obligations could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Storms or other natural disasters may impact our operations in unpredictable ways - Storms and other natural disasters, including events such as floods, tornadoes, windstorms like the 2020 derecho in Iowa, blizzards, ice storms, extreme hot temperatures, extreme cold temperatures, fires, solar flares or pandemics may adversely impact our ability to generate, purchase or distribute electric energy and gas or obtain fuel or other critical supplies.  In addition, we could incur large costs to repair damage to our generating facilities and electric and gas infrastructure, or costs related to environmental remediation, due to storms or other natural disasters.  The restoration costs may not be fully covered by insurance policies and may not be fully recovered in rates, or recovery in rates may be delayed.  Storms and natural disasters may impact our customers and the resulting reduced demand for energy could cause lower sales and revenues, which may not be replaced or recovered in rates, or rate recovery may be delayed.  Any of these items could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Threats of terrorism and catastrophic events that could result from terrorism may impact our operations in unpredictable ways - We are subject to direct and indirect effects of terrorist threats and activities.  Generation, transmission and distribution facilities, in general, have been identified as potential targets of physical or cyber attacks.  Physical attacks on transmission and distribution facilities that appeared to be terrorist-style attacks have occurred.  Our gas distribution system could also be the target of terrorist threats and activities.  The risks posed by such attacks could include, among other things, the inability to generate, purchase or distribute electric energy or obtain fuel sources, the increased cost of security and insurance, the disruption of, volatility in, or other effects on capital markets, and a decline in the economy and/or energy usage within our service territories, all of which could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.  In addition, the cost of repairing damage to our facilities and infrastructure caused by acts of terrorism, and the loss of revenue if such events prevent us from providing utility service to our customers, could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to fully recover costs related to commodity prices - We have natural gas and coal supply and transportation contracts in place for some of the natural gas and coal we require to generate electricity.  We also have transportation and supply agreements in place to facilitate delivery of natural gas to our customers.  Our counterparties to these contracts may not fulfill their obligations to provide natural gas or coal to us due to financial or operational problems caused by natural disasters, severe weather, economic conditions, pandemics, physical attacks or cyber attacks.  If we were unable to obtain enough natural gas or coal for our electric generating facilities under our existing contracts, or to obtain electricity under existing or future purchased power agreements, we could be required to purchase natural gas or coal at higher prices or forced to purchase electricity from higher-cost generating resources in the Midcontinent Independent System Operator, Inc. (MISO) energy market.  We may be obligated to pay for coal deliveries under our contracts even if our coal-fired generating facilities do not operate enough to fully utilize the amounts of coal covered by the contracts.  If, for natural gas delivery to our customers, we were unable to obtain our natural gas supply requirements under existing or future natural gas supply and transportation contracts, we could be required to purchase natural gas at higher prices from other sources.  Natural gas market prices have been volatile in the past and could be volatile in the future due to additional future regulations, periods of extremely cold temperatures or disruption in supply caused by major storms or pipeline explosions.  We may not be able to pass on all of the changes in costs to our customers, especially at WPL where we do not have an automatic retail electric fuel cost adjustment clause to timely recover such costs.  Increases in prices and costs due to disruptions that are not recovered in rates fully, in a timely manner, may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Energy industry changes could have a negative effect on our businesses - We operate in a highly regulated business environment.  The advent of new and unregulated markets has the potential to significantly impact our financial condition and results of operations.  Further, competitors may not be subject to the same operating, regulatory and financial requirements that we are, potentially causing a substantial competitive disadvantage for us.  Changes in public policy that could be the result of a new Presidential Administration, such as new tax incentives that we cannot take advantage of or efforts to deregulate the utility industry, could provide an advantage to competitors.  Changes in technology could also alter the channels through which electric customers buy or utilize power, which could reduce the revenues or increase the expenses of our utility companies.  Increased competition in our primary retail electric service territories may have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We face risks related to non-utility operations - We rely on our non-utility operations for a portion of our earnings.  If our non-utility holdings do not perform at expected levels, we could experience an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Laws and Regulations Our utility business is significantly impacted by government legislation, regulation and oversight - Our utility financial condition is influenced by how regulatory authorities, including the IUB, the PSCW and FERC, establish the rates we can charge our customers, our authorized rates of return and common equity levels, and the costs that may be recovered from customers.  Our ability to timely obtain rate adjustments to earn authorized rates of return depends upon timely regulatory action under applicable statutes and regulations, and cannot be guaranteed.  In future rate reviews, IPL and WPL may not receive an adequate amount of rate relief to recover all costs and earn their authorized rates of return, rates may be reduced, rate refunds may be required, rate adjustments may not be approved on a timely basis, costs may not be otherwise recovered through rates, future rates may be temporarily frozen, certain rate base items may not receive a full weighted average cost of capital, and authorized rates of return on capital may be reduced.  As a result, we may experience adverse impacts on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our operations are subject to extensive regulation primarily by the IUB, the PSCW and FERC.  We are also subject to oversight and monitoring by organizations such as the North American Electric Reliability Corporation, the Midwest Reliability Organization, the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, and MISO.  The impacts on our operations include: our ability to site and construct new generating facilities, such as renewable energy projects, and recover associated costs, including our ability to continue to use a renewable energy rider in Iowa; our ability to decommission generating facilities and recover related costs and the remaining carrying value of these facilities and related assets; the rates paid to transmission operators and how those costs are recovered from customers, including our ability to continue to use a transmission rider in Iowa; our ability to site, construct and recover costs for new natural gas pipelines; our ability to recover costs to upgrade our electric and gas distribution systems; the amount of certain sources of energy we must use, such as renewable sources; our ability to purchase generating facilities and recover the costs associated therewith; our ability to sell utility assets and any conditions placed upon the sale of such assets; our ability to enter into purchased power agreements and recover the costs associated therewith; resource adequacy requirements, energy capacity standards, and when new facilities such as IPL’s and WPL’s planned additional solar generation may be fully accredited with energy capacity; the allocation of expenditures by transmission companies on transmission network upgrades and our ability to recover costs associated therewith; reliability; safety; the issuance of securities and ability to use other financing arrangements, such as tax equity financing to finance renewable energy projects; accounting matters; and transactions between affiliates.  These regulatory authorities and organizations are also empowered to impose financial penalties and other sanctions, including requirements to implement new compliance programs.  Failure to obtain approvals for any of these matters in a timely manner, or receipt of approvals with uneconomical conditions, may cause us not to pursue the construction of such projects or to record an impairment of our assets and may have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.  Changes to these regulations could materially increase our costs or cause us to reconsider our strategy, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Provisions of the Wisconsin Utility Holding Company Act may limit our ability to invest in or grow our non-utility activities and may deter potential purchasers who might be willing to pay a premium for our stock. Changes to certain tax elections, tax regulations and future taxable income could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations - We have significantly reduced our federal and state income tax obligations through tax planning strategies and the utilization of bonus depreciation deductions for certain expenditures for property.  These tax planning strategies and bonus depreciation deductions have generated large taxable losses and tax credits that have resulted in significant federal and state net operating losses and tax credit carryforwards.  We plan to utilize substantially all of these net operating losses and tax credit carryforwards in the future to reduce our income tax obligations.  If we cannot generate enough taxable income in the future to utilize all of the net operating losses and tax credit carryforwards before they expire due to lower than expected financial performance or changes to tax regulations, we may incur material charges to earnings.  In addition, our tax liability is determined by our taxable income multiplied by the current tax rates in effect.  If the tax rates are increased or a minimum corporate income tax is implemented, as has been proposed by the new Presidential Administration, we may experience adverse impacts to our financial condition and results of operations. Our utility business currently operates wind generating facilities, which generate production tax credits for us to use to reduce our federal tax obligations.  The amount of production tax credits we earn is dependent on the date the qualifying generating facilities are placed in-service, the level of electricity output generated by our qualifying generating facilities and the applicable tax credit rate.  If there is a disagreement on the in-service date, the amount of production tax credits that we can generate may be significantly reduced.  A variety of operating and economic parameters, including transmission constraints, the imbalance of supply and demand of wind energy resulting in unfavorable pricing for wind energy, adverse weather conditions and breakdown or failure of equipment, could significantly reduce the production tax credits generated by our wind farms resulting in a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.  Our strategic plan includes developing solar generating facilities, which are expected to generate investment tax credits.  Investment tax credits are dependent on the date the qualifying generating facilities begin construction and the costs of the qualifying generating facilities.  If there is a disagreement on the dates construction began and ended or the qualifying costs, the amount of investment tax credits awarded may be significantly reduced, possibly adversely impacting our financial condition and results of operations. Our utility businesses are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations - Our utilities are subject to numerous federal, regional, state and local environmental laws, regulations, court orders, and international treaties.  These laws, regulations and court orders generally concern emissions into the air, discharges into water, use of water, wetlands preservation, remediation of contamination, waste disposal, disposal of coal combustion residuals, hazardous waste disposal, threatened and endangered species, and noise regulation, among others.  Failure to comply with such laws, regulations and court orders, or to obtain or comply with any necessary environmental permits pursuant to such laws and regulations, could result in injunctions, fines or other sanctions.  Environmental laws and regulations affecting power generation and electric and gas distribution are complex and subject to continued uncertainty and could be changed by the new Presidential Administration.  These laws and regulations have imposed, and proposed laws and regulations could impose in the future, additional costs on our utility operations.  We have incurred, and will continue to incur, capital and other expenditures to comply with these and other environmental laws and regulations.  Changes in or new development of environmental restrictions may force us to incur significant expenses or expenses that may exceed our estimates.  There can be no assurance that we would be able to recover all or any increased environmental costs from our customers.  Failure to comply with the laws, regulations and court orders, changes in the laws and regulations and failure to recover costs of compliance may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Actions related to global climate change and reducing greenhouse gases (GHG) emissions could negatively impact us - Regulators, customers and investors continue to raise concerns about climate change and GHG emissions.  National regulatory action is in flux and international regulatory actions continue to evolve.  We are focused on executing a long-term strategy to deliver reliable and affordable energy with lower carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions independent of changing policies and political landscape.  However, it is unclear how these climate change concerns will ultimately impact us.  We could incur costs or other obligations to comply with future GHG regulations, and could become the target of legal claims or challenges, because generating electricity using fossil fuels emits CO2 and other GHG.  Further, investors may determine that we are too reliant on fossil fuels, reducing demand for our stock, which may cause our stock price to decrease, or not buy our debt securities, which may cause our cost of capital to increase.  We could face additional pressures from customers, investors or other stakeholders to more rapidly reduce CO2 emissions on a voluntary-basis, including faster adoption of lower CO2 emitting technologies and management of excess renewable energy credits.  The timing and pace to fully achieve decarbonization is also contingent on the future development of technologies to reliably store and manage electricity, as well as electrification of other economic sectors.  The EPA’s approach and timing for implementing rules to regulate CO2 emissions at fossil-fuel fired electric generating units remains undecided and subject to litigation and could change based on the new Presidential Administration.  Various legislative and regulatory proposals to address climate change at the national, state and local levels continue to be introduced.  Regulation or legislation mandating CO2 emissions reductions or other clean energy standards could materially increase costs, causing some electric generating units to be uneconomical to operate or maintain.  We are vulnerable to potential risks associated with transition to a lower-carbon economy that may extend to our supply chain and natural gas operations.  Furthermore, acute and chronic physical risks could disrupt our operations or affect our property.  We cannot provide any assurance regarding the potential impacts of climate change policy or GHG regulations on our operations and these could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Economic, Financial and Labor Market Conditions We are subject to employee workforce factors that could affect our businesses - We operate in an industry that requires specialized technical skills.  Further, we must build a work force that is innovative, customer-focused and competitive to thrive in the future in order to successfully implement our strategy.  It may be difficult to hire and retain such a skilled workforce due to labor market conditions, such as low unemployment rates in our service territories, the length of time employees need to acquire the skills, and general competition for talent.  We are also subject to collective bargaining agreements covering approximately 1,800 employees.  Any work stoppage experienced in connection with negotiations of collective bargaining agreements could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations as well as our ability to implement our strategy. We are subject to limitations on our ability to pay dividends - Alliant Energy is a holding company with no significant operations of its own.  The primary sources of funds for Alliant Energy to pay dividends to its shareowners are dividends and distributions from its subsidiaries, primarily its utility subsidiaries.  Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to pay any amounts to Alliant Energy, whether by dividends, distributions, loans or other payments.  The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make distributions to Alliant Energy and, accordingly, our ability to pay dividends on Alliant Energy common stock will depend on regulatory limitations, earnings, cash flows, capital requirements and general financial condition of our subsidiaries.  Our utilities have dividend payment restrictions based on the terms of any outstanding preferred stock and regulatory limitations applicable to them.  If we do not receive adequate dividends and distributions from our subsidiaries, then we may not be able to make, or may have to reduce, dividend payments on Alliant Energy common stock. We may incur material post-closing adjustments related to past asset and business divestitures - We have sold certain non-utility subsidiaries such as Whiting Petroleum Corporation (Whiting Petroleum).  We may continue to incur liabilities relating to our previous ownership of, or the transactions pursuant to which we disposed of, these subsidiaries and assets.  Any potential liability depends on a number of factors outside of our control, including the financial condition of Whiting Petroleum, certain of its partners, and/or their assignees.  Any required payments on retained liabilities, guarantees or indemnification obligations with respect to Whiting Petroleum or other past and future asset or business divestitures could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent on the capital markets and could be negatively impacted by disruptions in the capital markets - Successful implementation of our strategy is dependent upon our ability to access the capital markets.  We have forecasted capital expenditures of approximately $6 billion over the next four years.  Disruption, uncertainty or volatility in the capital markets could increase our cost of capital or limit our ability to raise funds needed to operate our businesses.  Disruptions could be caused by Federal Reserve policies and actions, currency concerns, economic downturn or uncertainty, monetary policies, a negative view of the utility industry or our company, failures of financial institutions, U.S. debt management concerns, U.S. debt limit and budget debates, including government shutdowns, European and worldwide sovereign debt concerns, other global or geopolitical events, or other factors.  Increases in interest rates may cause the price of our equity securities to decline.  Any disruptions in capital markets could adversely impact our ability to implement our strategy. We rely on our strong credit ratings to access the credit markets.  If our credit ratings are downgraded for any reason, such as worsening credit metric impacts, negative changes to our regulatory environment, or general negative outlook for the utility industry, we could pay higher interest rates in future financings, the pool of potential lenders could be reduced, borrowing costs under existing credit facilities could increase, our access to the commercial paper market could be limited, or we could be required to provide additional credit assurance, including cash collateral, to contract counterparties.  If our access to capital were to become significantly constrained or costs of capital increased significantly due to lowered credit ratings, prevailing industry conditions, regulatory constraints, volatility of the capital markets or other factors, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our pension and other postretirement benefits plans are subject to investment and interest rate risk that could negatively impact our financial condition - We have pension and other postretirement benefits plans that provide benefits to many of our employees and retirees.  Costs of providing benefits and related funding requirements of these plans are subject to changes in the liabilities of the plans and market value of the assets that fund the plans.  The funded status of the plans and the related costs reflected in our financial statements are affected by various factors, which are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty, including economic conditions, financial market performance, interest rates, life expectancies and demographics.  Recessions and volatility in the domestic and international financial markets have negatively affected the asset values of our pension plans at various times in the past.  Poor investment returns or lower interest rates may necessitate accelerated funding of the plans to meet minimum federal government requirements, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

This MDA includes information relating to Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL, as well as AEF and Corporate Services.  Where appropriate, information relating to a specific entity has been segregated and labeled as such.  The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the Financial Statements and Notes included in this report.  Unless otherwise noted, all “per share” references in MDA refer to earnings per diluted share.  In addition, this MDA includes certain financial information for 2020 compared to 2019.  Refer to MDA in the combined 2019 for details on certain financial information for 2019 compared to 2018. OVERVIEW Strategy and Mission Alliant Energy’s mission is to deliver affordable energy solutions and exceptional service that its customers and communities count on - safely, efficiently and responsibly.  The mission is supported by a strategy focused on meeting the evolving expectations of customers while providing an attractive return for investors, as well as serving its customers and building strong communities.  This strategy includes the following key elements: Providing affordable energy solutions to customers - Alliant Energy’s strategy focuses on affordable energy solutions that support retention and growth of its existing customers and attract new customers to its service territories. Key Highlights - • WPL maintaining flat base rates in 2020 and 2021 by utilizing Federal Tax Reform benefits and lower fuel costs to offset higher revenue requirements from rate base additions. • IPL’s renewable energy rider became effective February 26, 2020, which allows for annual adjustments to electric rates charged to IPL’s retail electric customers for actual renewable energy costs incurred to fund IPL’s 1,000 MW of wind generating facilities placed in service in 2019 and 2020, and tax benefits. • Providing $35 million of billing credits to IPL’s retail electric customers beginning in the third quarter of 2020 through June 2021, largely driven by Federal Tax Reform benefits for customers. • Providing $42 million of billing credits to IPL’s retail electric customers in the second quarter of 2020 through its transmission cost rider for amounts previously collected in rates. • Significant fuel cost reductions achieved in 2020 and further reductions in fuel cost expected in 2021 as a result of expansion of renewable generation, operating highly efficient, low cost natural gas facilities and shortening the term of IPL’s DAEC PPA by 5 years. • Changes in recovery amounts for energy efficiency costs through the energy efficiency rider resulted in lower costs for IPL’s retail electric and gas customers in 2020. Making customer-focused investments - Alliant Energy’s strategic priorities include making significant customer-focused investments toward cleaner energy and sustainable customer solutions.  Alliant Energy’s strategy drives a capital allocation process focused on: 1) transitioning its generation portfolio to meet the growing interest of customers for cleaner sources of energy, 2) upgrading its electric and gas distribution systems to strengthen safety and resiliency, as well as enable distributed energy solutions in its service territories, and 3) enhancing its customers’ experience with evolving technology and greater flexibility. Key Highlights (refer to “ ” for details) - • IPL’s completion of more than 500 MW of new wind farms: Whispering Willow North (201 MW in January 2020), Golden Plains (200 MW in March 2020) and Richland (131 MW in September 2020). • WPL’s completion of the natural gas-fired West Riverside Energy Center (723 MW in May 2020), the Kossuth wind farm (152 MW in October 2020) and the expansion of its gas distribution system in Western Wisconsin in November 2020. • Planned development and acquisition of additional renewable energy, including approximately 1,000 MW of solar generation at WPL by the end of 2023, approximately 400 MW of solar generation by the end of 2023 at IPL and approximately 100 MW of distributed energy resources, including community solar and energy storage systems beginning in 2021 at IPL.  In addition, WPL may also develop additional solar generation and distributed energy resources. Growing customer demand - Alliant Energy’s strategy supports expanding electric and gas usage in its service territories by promoting electrification initiatives and economic development in the communities it serves. Key Highlights - • WPL entered into a wholesale power supply agreement with Consolidated Water Power Company, which was effective January 1, 2021 and is expected to bring approximately 60 MW of load to WPL’s electric system. • Alliant Energy has various development-ready sites throughout Iowa and Wisconsin, including the 1,300-acre Big Cedar Industrial Center Mega-site in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, and the 730-acre Prairie View Industrial Center Super Park in Ames, Iowa, which are rail-served ready-to-build manufacturing and industrial sites in close proximity to the regional airport and interstate freeways and access IPL’s electric services.  The Big Cedar Industrial Center Mega-site also accesses Travero’s rail and warehousing services.  In addition, the Beaver Dam Commerce Park is a 520-acre ready-to-build manufacturing and industrial site in Beaver Dam, Wisconsin, with access to commercial and freight airports, interstate freeways and WPL’s electric services. COVID-19 The outbreak of COVID-19 has become a global pandemic and Alliant Energy’s service territories are not immune to the challenges presented by COVID-19.  Despite these challenges, Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL continue to focus on providing the critical, reliable service their customers depend on, while emphasizing the health and welfare of their employees, customers and communities.  Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL have not experienced significant impacts on their overall business operations, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows; however, the degree to which the COVID-19 pandemic may impact such items in the future is currently unknown and will depend on future developments of the pandemic as well as possible additional actions by government and regulatory authorities.  Alliant Energy has mitigated the impact of sales declines from COVID-19 by accelerating planned cost transformation activities.  Actual and potential impacts from COVID-19 include, but are not limited to, the following: Operational and Supply Chain Impacts - Alliant Energy has modified certain business practices to help ensure the health and safety of its employees, contractors, customers and vendors consistent with orders and best practices issued by government and regulatory authorities.  For example, Alliant Energy implemented its business continuity and pandemic plans for critical items and services, including travel restrictions, physical distancing, working-from-home protocols, and rescheduling of planned EGU outages.  Alliant Energy also temporarily suspended service disconnects, waived late payment fees for its customers, and modified reconnect service procedures to ensure continuity of service for customers unable to pay their bills and consistency with regulatory orders. While Alliant Energy has not experienced any significant issues to-date, it continues to monitor potential disruptions or constraints in materials and supplies from key suppliers.  Alliant Energy’s construction projects are currently progressing as planned with added safety protocols, and while it continues to monitor its supply chain, there have been no immediate disruptions.  Alliant Energy’s wind farms under construction during the pandemic were placed in service as previously planned to meet the timing requirements to qualify for the maximum renewable tax credits.  In addition, Alliant Energy does not currently expect any material changes to its construction and acquisition expenditures plans disclosed in “ ” resulting from COVID-19. Alliant Energy has not experienced, and currently does not expect, an interruption in its ability to provide electric and natural gas services to its customers.  Alliant Energy currently expects to incur incremental direct expenses related to certain of these operational and supply chain impacts but does not expect them to have a material impact on its results of operations. Customer Impacts - COVID-19 has resulted in various travel restrictions and closures of commercial spaces and industrial facilities in Alliant Energy’s service territories.  While the total expected impact of COVID-19 on future sales is currently unknown, Alliant Energy has experienced higher electric residential sales and lower electric commercial and industrial sales since the outset of the pandemic, and expects these sales trends by customer class to continue into 2021 but at lower impacts than in 2020.  In 2020 compared to 2019, Alliant Energy’s retail electric residential temperature-normalized sales increased 3%, and its retail electric commercial and industrial temperature-normalized sales decreased 4% in aggregate.  In addition, Alliant Energy has not experienced a material increase in customer bankruptcies in 2020. Liquidity and Capital Resources Impacts - In response to the uncertainty of the impacts of COVID-19, Alliant Energy enhanced its liquidity position in the first quarter of 2020 by settling $222 million under the equity forward sale agreements and AEF accelerating the refinancing of its $300 million term-loan credit agreement that would have been due in April 2020.  Alliant Energy also enhanced its liquidity position by accelerating and/or increasing the size of new debt offerings in 2020, including WPL's issuance of $350 million of debentures due 2050 in April 2020, IPL's issuance of $400 million of senior debentures due 2030 in June 2020 and AEF's issuance of $200 million of senior notes due 2026 in November 2020.  Alliant Energy maintains a single credit facility, which allows borrowing capacity to shift among Alliant Energy (at the parent company level), IPL and WPL, as needed.  During March and April 2020, Alliant Energy and WPL borrowed under the single credit facility for a portion of their temporary cash needs to obtain more favorable interest rates than available in the commercial paper market at that time.  In addition, IPL maintains a sales of accounts receivable program as an alternative financing source; however, if customer arrears were to exceed certain levels, IPL’s access to the program may be restricted. Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL currently expect to maintain compliance with the financial covenants of the credit facility agreement, and Alliant Energy currently expects to maintain compliance with the financial covenants in AEF’s term loan credit agreement.  In addition, Alliant Energy currently expects to have adequate liquidity to fulfill its contractual obligations, access to capital markets and continue with its planned quarterly dividend payments. Credit Risk Impacts - Alliant Energy’s temporary suspension of service disconnects and waivers of late payment fees for its customers, as well as broad economic factors, may negatively impact its customers’ willingness and ability to pay, which could increase customer arrears and bad debts, and negatively impact Alliant Energy’s cash flows from operations.  Currently, Alliant Energy does not anticipate any material credit risk related to its commodity transactions. Regulatory Impacts - In March 2020, WPL received authorization from the PSCW to defer certain incremental costs incurred resulting from COVID-19, including bad debt expenses and foregone revenues from late payment fees.  In August 2020, IPL received authorization from the IUB for utilization of a regulatory asset account to track increased expenses and other financial impacts incurred after March 1, 2020 resulting from COVID-19.  The recovery of any authorized deferrals will be addressed in future regulatory proceedings.  In 2020, such amounts were not material. Legislative Impacts - In March 2020, the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (CARES Act) was enacted.  The most significant provision of the CARES Act for Alliant Energy relates to an acceleration of refunds of existing alternative minimum tax credits to increase liquidity.  In July 2020, Alliant Energy received $11 million of credits that otherwise would have been received in 2021 and 2022.  In addition, Alliant Energy has deferred certain 2020 payroll taxes to 2021 and 2022.  The CARES Act also provides additional funding to the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program, which assists certain of Alliant Energy’s customers with managing their energy costs, as well as financial support for certain of Alliant Energy’s residential, small business and non-profit customers. In December 2020, the Coronavirus Response and Relief Supplemental Appropriations Act of 2021 (CRRSA) was enacted.  The most significant provision of the CRRSA Act for Alliant Energy relates to the extension of certain renewable tax credits, and as a result, Alliant Energy will evaluate additional opportunities for repowering of its existing wind farms and additional solar projects beyond 2023.  The CRRSA Act also provides additional funding to the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program, as well as financial support for certain of Alliant Energy’s residential, small business and non-profit customers. Derecho Windstorm In August 2020, a derecho windstorm caused considerable damage to IPL’s electric distribution system in its service territory, and over 250,000 of its customers lost power.  IPL completed its initial restoration efforts in August 2020 and permanent repairs to the system will continue into 2021.  Refer to for further discussion, including IPL’s current estimate and requested regulatory treatment of certain incremental costs and benefits incurred resulting from the windstorm. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Results of operations include financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP as well as utility electric margins and utility gas margins, which are not measures of financial performance under GAAP.  Utility electric margins are defined as electric revenues less electric production fuel, purchased power and electric transmission service expenses.  Utility gas margins are defined as gas revenues less cost of gas sold.  Utility electric margins and utility gas margins are non-GAAP financial measures because they exclude other utility and non-utility revenues, other operation and maintenance expenses, depreciation and amortization expenses, and taxes other than income tax expense. Management believes that utility electric and gas margins provide a meaningful basis for evaluating and managing utility operations since electric production fuel, purchased power and electric transmission service expenses and cost of gas sold are generally passed through to customers, and therefore, result in changes to electric and gas revenues that are comparable to changes in such expenses.  The presentation of utility electric and gas margins herein is intended to provide supplemental information for investors regarding operating performance.  These utility electric and gas margins may not be comparable to how other entities define utility electric and gas margin.  Furthermore, these measures are not intended to replace operating income as determined in accordance with GAAP as an indicator of operating performance. Additionally, the table below includes EPS for Utilities and Corporate Services, ATC Holdings, and Non-utility and Parent, which are non-GAAP financial measures.  Alliant Energy believes these non-GAAP financial measures are useful to investors because they facilitate an understanding of segment performance and trends, and provide additional information about Alliant Energy’s operations on a basis consistent with the measures that management uses to manage its operations and evaluate its performance. Financial Results Overview - Alliant Energy’s net income and EPS attributable to Alliant Energy common shareowners were as follows (dollars in millions, except per share amounts): Alliant Energy’s Utilities and Corporate Services income increased $57 million in 2020 compared to 2019.  The increase was primarily due to higher earnings resulting from IPL’s and WPL’s increasing rate base.  This item was partially offset by higher depreciation expense, lower AFUDC and higher WPL electric fuel-related costs, net of recoveries. Operating income and a reconciliation of utility electric and gas margins to the most directly comparable GAAP measure, operating income, was as follows (in millions): Operating Income Variances - Variances between periods in operating income for 2020 compared to 2019 were as follows (in millions): Electric and Gas Revenues and Sales Summary - Electric and gas revenues (in millions), and MWh and Dth sales (in thousands), were as follows: Sales Trends and Temperatures - Alliant Energy’s retail electric and gas sales volumes decreased 2% and 13% in 2020 compared to 2019, respectively, primarily due to the impacts from COVID-19, the derecho windstorm, and changes in temperatures in Alliant Energy’s service territories, partially offset by an extra day of sales in 2020 due to leap year.  In 2020, COVID-19 impacts on sales volumes resulted in increases for retail electric residential sales volumes and decreases for retail electric commercial and industrial sales volumes. Estimated increases (decreases) to electric and gas margins from the impacts of temperatures were as follows (in millions): Utility Electric Margin Variances - The following items contributed to increased (decreased) utility electric margins for 2020 compared to 2019 (in millions): (a) IPL’s interim retail electric base rate increase was effective April 1, 2019 and final retail electric base rate increase was effective February 26, 2020.  Effective with final rates, the recovery of, and return on, IPL’s new wind generation placed in service in 2019 and 2020 is provided through the renewable energy rider.  Both interim and final rate increases include a reduction for anticipated production tax credits for IPL’s new wind generation.  This reduction is expected to be offset by a reduction in income tax expense resulting from production tax credits recognized from this new wind generation.  Refer to for further discussion. Utility Gas Margin Variances - The following items contributed to increased (decreased) utility gas margins for 2020 compared to 2019 (in millions): Other Operation and Maintenance Expenses Variances - The following items contributed to (increased) decreased other operation and maintenance expenses for 2020 compared to 2019 (in millions): Other Income and Deductions Variances - The following items contributed to (increased) decreased other income and deductions for 2020 compared to 2019 (in millions): Income Taxes - Refer to for details of effective income tax rates. Other Future Considerations - In addition to items discussed in this report, the following key items could impact Alliant Energy’s, IPL’s and WPL’s future financial condition or results of operations: • Financing Plans - WPL currently expects to issue up to $300 million of long-term debt in 2021.  Alliant Energy currently expects to issue up to $25 million of common stock in 2021 through its Shareowner Direct Plan. • Common Stock Dividends - Alliant Energy announced a 6% increase in its targeted 2021 annual common stock dividend to $1.61 per share, which is equivalent to a quarterly rate of $0.4025 per share, beginning with the February 2021 dividend payment.  The timing and amount of future dividends is subject to an approved dividend declaration from Alliant Energy’s Board of Directors, and is dependent upon earnings expectations, capital requirements, and general financial business conditions, among other factors. • Higher Earnings on Increasing Rate Base - Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL currently expect an increase in earnings in 2021 compared to 2020 due to impacts from increasing revenue requirements related to investments in the utility business, including IPL’s and WPL’s wind investments, WPL’s Western Wisconsin gas distribution system expansion, and the impacts of IPL’s DAEC PPA amendment buyout payment. • Extreme Temperatures - In February 2021, portions of the central and southern U.S., including Alliant Energy’s service territories, experienced a prolonged period of very cold temperatures and a series of winter storms.  This resulted in significant volatility and increases in commodity prices caused by higher demand for electricity and natural gas and disruptions in commodity supply.  As a result, Alliant Energy currently expects to incur higher electric production fuel and cost of gas sold expenses in 2021 compared to 2020 related to the extreme temperatures and winter storms.  Any changes in electric production fuel and cost of gas sold is expected to be recovered through IPL’s and WPL’s cost recovery mechanisms resulting in impacts to customer bills in 2021.  As a result of these impacts to customers during a pandemic, Alliant Energy plans to work with the respective commissions to evaluate the recovery of any higher costs over a longer period of time. • Depreciation and Amortization Expenses - Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL currently expect an increase in depreciation and amortization expenses in 2021 compared to 2020 due to property additions, including IPL’s and WPL’s expansion of wind generation and WPL’s natural gas-fired West Riverside Energy Center. • Allowance for Funds Used During Construction - Alliant Energy currently expects AFUDC to decrease in 2021 compared to 2020 primarily due to decreased CWIP balances related to IPL’s and WPL’s wind generation and WPL’s West Riverside Energy Center, which were placed in service in 2020. CUSTOMER INVESTMENTS Alliant Energy’s, IPL’s and WPL’s strategic priorities include making significant customer-focused investments toward cleaner energy and sustainable customer solutions.  These priorities include: Environmental Stewardship Alliant Energy’s environmental stewardship is focused on meeting its customers’ energy needs in an economical, efficient and sustainable manner.  Alliant Energy proactively considers future environmental compliance requirements and proposed regulations in its planning, decision-making, construction and ongoing operations activities.  Alliant Energy is focused on executing a long-term strategy to deliver reliable and affordable energy with lower emissions independent of changing policies and political landscape.  To achieve these long-term goals, Alliant Energy will transition away from coal-fired EGUs and incorporate more renewable energy, distributed energy resources, energy efficiency, demand response, highly-efficient natural gas-fired EGUs and other emerging technologies such as energy storage.  Alliant Energy’s voluntary environmental-related goals and achievements include the following: • Reduced air emissions for sulfur dioxide by 90%, nitrogen oxide by 80% and mercury by 90% from 2005 levels, which it achieved in 2019. • By 2030, reduce CO2 emissions by 50% and water supply by 75% from 2005 levels from its owned fossil-fueled generation, as well as transition 100% of its light-duty fleet vehicles to be electric. • By 2040, eliminate all coal-fired EGUs from its generating fleet. • By 2050, achieve an aspirational goal of net-zero CO2 emissions from the electricity it generates. Future updates to sustainable energy plans and attaining these goals will depend on future economic developments, evolving energy technologies and emerging trends in Alliant Energy’s service territories. Renewable Generation Alliant Energy’s cleaner energy strategy, or Clean Energy Blueprint, includes the planned development and acquisition of additional renewable energy, including approximately 1,000 MW of solar generation at WPL by the end of 2023, approximately 400 MW of solar generation by the end of 2023 at IPL and approximately 100 MW of distributed energy resources, including community solar and energy storage systems beginning in 2021 at IPL.  Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL continue to evaluate additional opportunities to add more renewable generation, including repowering of existing wind farms and additional solar generation and distributed energy resources.  Estimated capital expenditures for these planned projects for 2021 through 2024 are included in the “Renewable projects” line in the construction and acquisition table in “ .”  IPL and WPL currently assume that a portion of the construction costs for the new solar generation will be financed by a tax equity partner, which is discussed in “IPL and WPL Solar Project Tax Equity Credits” in “ .”  In addition, Alliant Energy completed the construction and acquisition of approximately 1,200 MW of wind generation in aggregate (approximately 1,000 MW at IPL and approximately 200 MW at WPL) from 2018 through 2020. WPL’s Solar Generation - In May 2020, WPL filed a CA with the PSCW for approval to acquire, construct, own, and operate 675 MW of new solar generation in the following Wisconsin counties: Grant (200 MW in 2023), Sheboygan (150 MW in 2022), Wood (150 MW in 2022), Jefferson (75 MW in 2022), Richland (50 MW in 2022) and Rock (50 MW in 2023).  The 675 MW of new solar generation would replace energy and capacity being eliminated with the planned retirement of the coal-fired Edgewater Generating Station (414 MW) by the end of 2022, and Columbia Unit 1 by the end of 2023 and Columbia Unit 2 by the end of 2024 (595 MW in aggregate).  In addition, WPL currently expects to file a second CA with the PSCW in the first half of 2021 for approximately 325 MW of new solar generation.  As a result of WPL’s neighboring utilities anticipated exercise of their options to purchase a partial ownership interest in West Riverside, WPL anticipates additional capacity needs by 2024. IPL’s Solar Generation and Distributed Energy Resources - IPL’s plans include development and acquisition of up to 400 MW of solar generation by the end of 2023 and up to 100 MW of distributed energy resources, including community solar and energy storage systems beginning in 2021.  IPL currently plans to file for advance rate-making principles for up to 400 MW of solar generation in the first half of 2021.  The 400 MW of new solar generation would help replace a portion of the energy and capacity expected to be eliminated with the planned retirement of the coal-fired Lansing Generating Station (275 MW) by the end of 2022 and the expected reduction of energy and capacity resulting from the planned fuel switch of the Burlington Generating Station (212 MW) from coal to natural gas by the end of 2021. IPL’s Expansion of Wind Generation - In 2016 and 2018, IPL received approvals from the IUB for advance rate-making principles for 1,000 MW of new wind generation . IPL completed the construction of various wind farms as follows: WPL’s Expansion of Wind Generation - In October 2020, WPL completed the construction of the Kossuth wind farm (152 MW) in Kossuth County, Iowa, pursuant to approvals from the PSCW.  In addition, WPL acquired a partial ownership interest in the assets of the Forward Wind Energy Center located in Wisconsin (59 MW) in 2018, pursuant to approvals from the PSCW and FERC. Complementary Generation Investments WPL’s Construction of West Riverside Natural Gas-fired Generating Station - In 2016, WPL received an order from the PSCW authorizing WPL to construct a natural gas-fired combined-cycle EGU in Beloit, Wisconsin, referred to as West Riverside.  WPL’s construction of West Riverside began in 2016 and the 723 MW EGU was placed in service in May 2020.  West Riverside replaces energy and capacity being eliminated with the retirements of various EGUs. WPL entered into agreements with neighboring utilities and electric cooperatives that provide each of them options to purchase a partial ownership interest in West Riverside.  The purchase price for such options is based on the ownership interest acquired and the net book value of West Riverside on the date of the purchase.  The exercise of the WPSC and MGE options is subject to PSCW approval, and the timing and ownership amounts of the options are as follows: (a) If WPSC exercises its options, WPL may exercise reciprocal options, subject to approval by the PSCW, to purchase up to 200 MW of any natural-gas combined-cycle EGU that either WPSC or its affiliated utility, Wisconsin Electric Power Company, places in service within 10 years of the date West Riverside is placed in service. Plant Retirements and Fuel Switching - The current strategy includes the retirement, or fuel switch from coal to natural gas, of various EGUs in the next several years.  IPL currently expects to retire the coal-fired Lansing Generating Station (275 MW) by the end of 2022 and fuel switch the Burlington Generating Station (212 MW) from coal to natural gas by the end of 2021.  WPL currently expects to retire the coal-fired Edgewater Generating Station (414 MW) by the end of 2022, Columbia Unit 1 by the end of 2023 and Columbia Unit 2 by the end of 2024.  Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL are working with MISO, state regulatory commissions and other regulatory agencies, as required, to determine the timing of these actions, which are subject to change depending on operational, regulatory, market and other factors.  Refer to for additional details on these EGUs, as well as for discussion of IPL’s requirements to fuel switch or retire certain EGUs under a Consent Decree. Other Customer-focused Investments Electric and Gas Distribution Systems - Customer-focused investments include replacing, modernizing and upgrading infrastructure in the electric and gas distribution systems.  Electric system investments will focus on areas such as improving resiliency with more underground electric distribution and enabling distributed energy solutions with higher capacity lines.  Gas system investments will focus on pipeline replacement to ensure safety and pipeline expansion to support reliability and economic development.  Estimated capital expenditures for expected and current electric and gas distribution infrastructure projects for 2021 through 2024 are included in the “Electric and gas distribution systems” lines in the construction and acquisition expenditures table in “ .” Fiber Optic Telecommunication Network - Alliant Energy is currently installing fiber optic routes between its facilities to enhance its communications network to improve resiliency and reliability of, and enable and strengthen, the integrated grid network to help serve its customers. Gas Pipeline Expansion - IPL and WPL currently expect to make investments to extend various gas distribution systems to provide natural gas to unserved or underserved areas in their service territories.  In April 2020, WPL received authorization from the PSCW to expand its gas distribution system in Western Wisconsin, which was completed in November 2020. Gas Pipeline Safety - In October 2019, the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration published a final rule that updates safety requirements for gas transmission pipelines, and various updated procedures were implemented in July 2020.  Plans to address certain requirements for specific pipelines must be developed by July 2021, and remediation efforts must be completed by July 2035.  In anticipation of these rule changes, Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL have been proactively replacing certain of IPL’s transmission pipelines and making modifications to certain of WPL’s transmission pipelines.  Alliant Energy, IPL, and WPL also continue to evaluate the impact of this final rule and resulting remediation plans on their financial condition and results of operations. Non-utility business - Alliant Energy continues to explore growth of its Travero businesses and other limited scope opportunities outside of, but complimentary to, Alliant Energy’s core utility business.  This non-utility strategy continues to evolve through exploration of modest strategic opportunities that are accretive to earnings and cash flows within and outside of Alliant Energy’s service territories. RATE MATTERS Rate Reviews Retail Base Rate Filings - Base rate changes reflect both returns on additions to infrastructure and recovery of changes in costs incurred or expected to be incurred.  Given that a portion of the rate changes will offset changes in costs, revenues from rate changes should not be expected to result in an equal change in net income for either IPL or WPL. IPL’s Retail Electric and Gas Rate Reviews (2020 Forward-looking Test Period) -  In 2019, IPL filed retail electric and gas rate review requests with the IUB covering the 2020 forward-looking Test Period.  In January 2020, IPL received an order from the IUB approving IPL’s proposed settlement for its retail electric rate review.  Final retail electric rates were effective February 26, 2020.  In December 2019, IPL received an order from the IUB approving IPL’s proposed settlement for its retail gas rate review.  Final retail gas rates were effective January 10, 2020.  Refer to for details. IPL currently expects to file a subsequent proceeding with the IUB in the second quarter of 2021 for its 2020 Forward-looking Test Period retail electric and gas rate reviews, which will compare actual revenues and costs to those initially forecasted by IPL.  IPL currently does not expect any rate adjustments from the subsequent proceeding. WPL’s Retail Electric and Gas Rate Review (2021 Forward-looking Test Period) - In December 2020, the PSCW issued an order authorizing WPL to maintain its current retail electric and gas base rates, authorized return on common equity, regulatory capital structure and earnings sharing mechanism through the end of 2021.  WPL will utilize anticipated fuel-related cost savings and excess deferred income tax benefits in 2021 to offset the revenue requirement impacts of increasing electric and gas rate base, including the Kossuth wind farm, which was placed in service in October 2020, and the expansion of its gas distribution system in Western Wisconsin, which was placed in service in November 2020. Planned Rate Review - WPL currently expects to file a retail electric and gas rate review with the PSCW in the second quarter of 2021 for either a single or multiple year forward-looking test period.  The key drivers for the anticipated filing include lower excess deferred income tax benefits in 2022 and revenue requirement impacts of increasing electric and gas rate base, including investments in solar generation.  Any rate changes granted from this request are expected to be effective on January 1, 2022.  WPL currently expects a decision from the PSCW regarding this rate filing by the end of 2021. Rate Review Details - Details related to IPL’s and WPL’s key jurisdictions were as follows: (a) Authorized returns on common equity may not be indicative of actual returns earned or projections of future returns. (b) Average rate base amounts reflect IPL’s allocated retail share of rate base and do not include CWIP, and were calculated using a forecasted 13-month average for the test period. (c) Average rate base amounts recovered through IPL’s renewable energy rider mechanism include construction costs incurred to fund IPL’s 1,000 MW of wind generation facilities placed in service in 2019 and 2020 (11.00% return on common equity), production tax credit carryforwards for the 1,000 MW of wind generation facilities (5.00% return on common equity) and certain transmission facilities classified as intangible assets (9.50% return on common equity), and were calculated using a 13-month average. (d) Average rate base amounts reflect WPL’s allocated retail share of rate base and do not include CWIP or a cash working capital allowance, and were calculated using a forecasted 13-month average for the test period.  The PSCW provides a return on selected CWIP and a cash working capital allowance by adjusting the percentage return on rate base. Other Rate Matters Federal Tax Reform - Federal Tax Reform resulted in future benefits to customers as a result of remeasurement of accumulated deferred income taxes (approximately $350 million for IPL and $460 million for WPL of retail revenue requirement).  The majority of these benefits are subject to tax normalization rules (protected benefits), which limit the rate at which they can be passed on to their electric and gas customers. For those benefits that were not limited by tax normalization rules (the non-protected benefits), IPL began providing retail electric billing credits that will continue through June 2021, which include $27 million of excess deferred tax benefits.  After returning these benefits to customers, IPL is not expected to have any significant remaining non-protected benefits as a result of the original Federal Tax Reform impacts. WPL provided non-protected benefits back to its retail electric and gas customers in 2019 and 2020.  In 2020, WPL utilized approximately $72 million to help maintain base rates at current levels and will utilize approximately $113 million to help maintain base rates at current levels through 2021.  The remaining non-protected benefits of approximately $5 million will be addressed in WPL’s future retail electric and gas rate reviews. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Overview - Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL expect to maintain adequate liquidity to operate their businesses and implement their strategy as a result of operating cash flows generated by their utility business, and available capacity under a single revolving credit facility and IPL’s sales of accounts receivable program, supplemented by periodic issuances of long-term debt and Alliant Energy equity securities.  As summarized below, Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL believe they have the ability to generate and obtain adequate amounts of cash to meet their requirements and plans for cash in the next 12 months and beyond. COVID-19 and Derecho Windstorm Considerations - Refer to “ ” in MDA for discussion of COVID-19 and the derecho windstorm and the impacts on Alliant Energy’s, IPL’s and WPL’s liquidity and capital resources. Liquidity Position - At December 31, 2020, Alliant Energy had $54 million of cash and cash equivalents, $611 million ($318 million at the parent company, $250 million at IPL and $43 million at WPL) of available capacity under the single revolving credit facility and $109 million of available capacity at IPL under its sales of accounts receivable program. Capital Structure - Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL plan to maintain debt-to-total capitalization ratios that are consistent with investment-grade credit ratings.  IPL and WPL expect to maintain capital structures consistent with their authorized levels.  Capital structures as of December 31, 2020 were as follows (Common Equity (CE); IPL’s Preferred Stock (PS); Long-term Debt (including current maturities) (LD); Short-term Debt (SD)): Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL intend to manage their capital structures and liquidity positions in such a way that facilitates their ability to raise funds reliably and on reasonable terms and conditions, while maintaining capital structures consistent with those approved by regulators.  In addition to capital structures, other important factors used to determine the characteristics of future financings include financial coverage ratios, capital spending plans and solar construction that is expected to be financed by tax equity partners, regulatory orders and rate-making considerations, levels of debt imputed by rating agencies, market conditions, the impact of tax initiatives and legislation, and any potential proceeds from asset sales.  The PSCW factors certain imputed debt adjustments in establishing a regulatory capital structure as part of WPL’s retail rate reviews.  The IUB does not make any explicit adjustments for imputed debt in establishing capital ratios used in determining customer rates, although such adjustments are considered by IPL in recommending an appropriate capital structure.  Debt imputations by rating agencies include, among others, pension and OPEB obligations and the sales of accounts receivable program. Credit and Capital Markets - Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL maintain a single revolving credit facility to provide backstop liquidity to their commercial paper programs, and ensure a committed source of liquidity in the event the commercial paper market becomes disrupted.  In addition, IPL maintains a sales of accounts receivable program as an alternative financing source; however, if customer arrears were to exceed certain levels, IPL’s access to the program may be restricted. Primary Sources and Uses of Cash - Alliant Energy’s most significant source of cash is from electric and gas sales to IPL’s and WPL’s customers.  Cash from these sales reimburses IPL and WPL for prudently-incurred expenses to provide service to their utility customers and generally provides IPL and WPL a return of and a return on the assets used to provide such services.  Capital needed to retire debt and fund capital expenditures related to large strategic projects is expected to be met primarily through external financings. Cash Flows - Selected information from the cash flows statements was as follows (in millions): Operating Activities - The following items contributed to increased (decreased) operating activity cash flows for 2020 compared to 2019 (in millions): Income Tax Payments and Refunds - Income tax (payments) refunds, including refunds of alternative minimum tax credits, were as follows (in millions): Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL currently do not expect to make any significant federal income tax payments through 2023 based on their current federal net operating loss and credit carryforward positions.  While no significant federal income tax payments through 2023 are expected to occur, some tax payments and refunds may occur for state taxes and between consolidated group members (including IPL and WPL) under the tax sharing agreement between Alliant Energy and its subsidiaries.  Refer to for discussion of the carryforward positions. Pension Plan Contributions - Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL currently expect to make $39 million, $17 million and $18 million of pension plan contributions in 2021, respectively, based on the funded status and assumed return on assets for each plan as of the December 31, 2020 measurement date.  Refer to for discussion of the current funded levels of pension plans. Investing Activities - The following items contributed to increased (decreased) investing activity cash flows for 2020 compared to 2019 (in millions): (a) Largely due to lower expenditures for IPL’s expansion of wind generation, WPL’s West Riverside Energy Center and IPL’s advanced metering infrastructure, partially offset by higher expenditures for IPL’s and WPL’s electric and gas distribution systems (which include the derecho windstorm) and WPL’s expansion of wind generation. Construction and Acquisition Expenditures - Construction and acquisition expenditures and financing plans are reviewed, approved and updated as part of the strategic planning process.  Changes may result from a number of reasons, including regulatory requirements, changing legislation, not obtaining favorable and acceptable regulatory approval on certain projects, improvements in technology and improvements to ensure reliability of the electric and gas distribution systems.  Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL have not yet entered into contractual commitments relating to the majority of their anticipated future construction and acquisition expenditures.  As a result, they have some discretion with regard to the level and timing of these expenditures.  The table below summarizes anticipated construction and acquisition expenditures (in millions).  Cost estimates represent Alliant Energy’s, IPL’s and WPL’s portion of construction expenditures and exclude AFUDC and capitalized interest, if applicable.  Such estimates do not reflect the assumption that a portion of the construction is expected to be financed by tax equity partners, which is described in more detail below in “IPL and WPL Solar Project Tax Equity Credits.”  Refer to “ ” for further discussion of certain key projects impacting construction and acquisition plans related to the utility business. West Riverside Options - WPL entered into agreements with neighboring utilities that provide them options to purchase a partial ownership interest in West Riverside.  If such options are exercised, WPL will receive proceeds from the sale.  Refer to “ ” for additional information, including the timing for the potential exercise of options. Financing Activities - The following items contributed to increased (decreased) financing activity cash flows for 2020 compared to 2019 (in millions): IPL and WPL Solar Project Tax Equity Credits - IPL and WPL each propose to own and operate their planned solar projects, which are currently expected to qualify for 30% investment tax credits, through a tax equity partnership, with approximately 35% to 45% of the construction costs financed with capital from the tax equity partner.  This would allow IPL’s and WPL’s customers to share the costs of the solar projects with an investment partner for 10 years or less, while ensuring their customers receive energy, capacity, and renewable energy credit benefits from the projects.  IPL and WPL would expect to purchase the tax equity partner’s interest in the solar projects within 10 years of operation, and then convert to a traditional ownership structure for the remainder of the useful life of the projects.  Assuming a portion of the construction costs are financed by the tax equity partner, IPL would receive approximately $205 million from the tax equity partner in 2023, and WPL would receive approximately $210 million in 2022 and $275 million in 2023.  IPL and WPL would expect to include their portion of capital expenditures, less the amounts financed by the tax equity partner, in their respective rate base. FERC and Public Utility Holding Company Act Financing Authorizations - Under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005, FERC has authority over the issuance of utility securities, except to the extent that a public utility’s primary state regulatory commission has retained jurisdiction over such matters.  FERC currently has authority over the issuance of securities by IPL.  FERC does not have authority over the issuance of securities by Alliant Energy, WPL, AEF or Corporate Services.  In 2019, IPL received authorization from FERC to issue securities in 2020 and 2021 as follows (in millions): State Regulatory Financing Authorizations - In 2017, WPL received authorization from the PSCW to have up to $400 million of short-term borrowings and/or letters of credit outstanding at any time through the earlier of the expiration date of WPL’s credit facility agreement (including extensions) or December 2024.  In September 2020, WPL received authorization from the PSCW to issue up to $1 billion of long-term debt securities in aggregate through December 2023. Shelf Registrations - Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL have current shelf registration statements on file with the SEC for availability to issue unspecified amounts of securities through December 2023.  Alliant Energy’s shelf registration statement may be used to issue common stock, debt and other securities.  IPL’s and WPL’s shelf registration statements may be used to issue preferred stock and debt securities. Common Stock Dividends - Payment of common stock dividends is subject to dividend declaration by Alliant Energy’s Board of Directors and is dependent upon, among other factors, regulatory limitations, earnings, cash flows, capital requirements and general financial condition of subsidiaries.  Alliant Energy’s general long-term goal is to maintain a dividend payout ratio that is competitive with the industry average.  Based on that, Alliant Energy’s goal is to maintain a dividend payout ratio of approximately 60% to 70% of consolidated earnings from continuing operations.  Refer to “ ” for discussion of expected common stock dividends in 2021. Common Stock Issuances - Refer to for discussion of common stock issuances by Alliant Energy in 2019 and 2020, and “ ” for discussion of expected issuances of common stock in 2021. Short-term Debt - In 2017, Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL entered into a single revolving credit facility agreement, which expires in August 2023 and is discussed in .  There are currently 13 lenders that participate in the credit facility, with respective commitments ranging from $20 million to $130 million.  Subject to certain conditions, Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL may exercise one extension option, extending the maturity date by one year.  The credit facility has a provision to expand the facility size up to an additional $300 million, for a potential total commitment of $1.3 billion, subject to lender approval for Alliant Energy and subject to lender and regulatory approvals for IPL and WPL. The credit agreement contains customary events of default, including a cross-default provision that would be triggered if Alliant Energy or certain of its significant subsidiaries (including IPL and WPL) defaults on debt (other than non-recourse debt) totaling $100 million or more.  IPL and WPL are subject to a similar cross-default provision with respect to their own respective consolidated debt.  A default by Alliant Energy or its non-utility subsidiaries would not trigger a cross-default at IPL or WPL, nor would a default by either of IPL or WPL constitute a cross-default event for the other.  If an event of default under the credit agreement occurs and is continuing, then the lenders may declare any outstanding obligations of the defaulting borrower under the credit agreement immediately due and payable. The single credit facility agreement contains a financial covenant, which requires Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL to maintain certain debt-to-capital ratios in order to borrow under the credit facility.  AEF’s term loan credit agreement contains a financial covenant, which requires Alliant Energy to maintain a certain debt-to-capital ratio in order to borrow under the term loan credit agreement.  The required debt-to-capital ratios compared to the actual debt-to-capital ratios at December 31, 2020 were as follows: The debt component of the capital ratios includes, when applicable, long- and short-term debt (excluding non-recourse debt and hybrid securities to the extent the total carrying value of such hybrid securities does not exceed 15% of consolidated capital of the applicable borrower), finance lease obligations, certain letters of credit, guarantees of the foregoing and new synthetic leases.  Unfunded vested benefits under qualified pension plans and sales of accounts receivable are not included in the debt-to-capital ratios.  The equity component of the capital ratios excludes accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Long-term Debt - Refer to for discussion of issuances and retirements of long-term debt in 2020 and “ ” for discussion of expected issuances of long-term debt in 2021.  In 2019, IPL issued $300 million of 3.6% senior debentures (green bonds) due 2029 and $300 million of 3.5% senior debentures (green bonds) due 2049.  In 2019, WPL issued $350 million of 3% debentures due 2029, and a portion of the proceeds from the issuance was used by WPL to refinance its $250 million 5% debentures that matured in 2019. Impact of Credit Ratings on Liquidity and Collateral Obligations - Ratings Triggers - The long-term debt of Alliant Energy and its subsidiaries is not subject to any repayment requirements as a result of explicit credit rating downgrades or so-called “ratings triggers.”  However, Alliant Energy and its subsidiaries are parties to various agreements that contain provisions dependent on credit ratings.  In the event of a significant downgrade, Alliant Energy or its subsidiaries may need to provide credit support, such as letters of credit or cash collateral equal to the amount of any exposure, or may need to unwind contracts or pay underlying obligations.  In the event of a significant downgrade, management believes Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL have sufficient liquidity to cover counterparty credit support or collateral requirements under these various agreements.  In addition, a downgrade in the credit ratings of Alliant Energy, IPL or WPL, could also result in them paying higher interest rates in future financings, reduce flexibility with future financing plans, reduce their pool of potential lenders, increase their borrowing costs under existing credit facilities or limit their access to the commercial paper market.  Credit ratings and outlooks as of the date of this report are as follows: Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services and Moody’s Investors Service issued credit ratings of BBB+ and Baa2, respectively, for the senior notes issued by AEF in 2018 and 2020 (with Alliant Energy as guarantor).  Credit ratings are not recommendations to buy or sell securities and are subject to change, and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating.  Each of Alliant Energy, IPL or WPL assumes no obligation to update their respective credit ratings.  Refer to for additional information on ratings triggers for commodity contracts accounted for as derivatives. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements - Special Purpose Entities - IPL maintains a Receivables Agreement whereby it may sell its customer accounts receivables, unbilled revenues and certain other accounts receivables to a third party through wholly-owned and consolidated special purpose entities.  The purchase commitment from the third party to which IPL sells its receivables expires in March 2021.  IPL currently expects to amend and extend the purchase commitment.  In 2020 and 2019, IPL evaluated the third party that purchases IPL’s receivable assets under the Receivables Agreement and believes that the third party is a VIE; however, IPL concluded consolidation of the third party was not required. In addition, IPL’s sales of accounts receivable program agreement contains a cross-default provision that is triggered if IPL or Alliant Energy incurs an event of default on debt totaling $100 million or more.  If an event of default under IPL’s sales of accounts receivable program agreement occurs, then the counterparty could terminate such agreement.  Refer to for additional information regarding IPL’s sales of accounts receivable program. Guarantees and Indemnifications - At December 31, 2020, various guarantees and indemnifications are outstanding related to Alliant Energy’s cash equity ownership interest in a non-utility wind farm and prior divestiture activities.  Refer to for additional information. Certain Financial Commitments - Contractual Obligations - Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL have various long-term contractual obligations as of December 31, 2020, which include long-term debt maturities in , operating and finance leases in , capital purchase obligations in , and other purchase obligations in .  At December 31, 2020, Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL had no uncertain tax positions recorded as liabilities.  Refer to for anticipated pension and OPEB funding amounts, which are not included in the above tables.  Refer to “Construction and Acquisition Expenditures” above for additional information on construction and acquisition programs.  In addition, at December 31, 2020, there were various other liabilities included on the balance sheets that, due to the nature of the liabilities, the timing of payments cannot be estimated. OTHER MATTERS Market Risk Sensitive Instruments and Positions - Primary market risk exposures are associated with commodity prices, investment prices and interest rates.  Risk management policies are used to monitor and assist in mitigating these market risks and derivative instruments are used to manage some of the exposures related to commodity prices.  Refer to Notes and for further discussion of derivative instruments, and for details of utility cost recovery mechanisms that significantly reduce commodity risk. Commodity Price - Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL are exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in the price and transportation costs of commodities they procure and market.  Established policies and procedures mitigate risks associated with these market fluctuations, including the use of various commodity derivatives and contracts of various durations for the forward sale and purchase of these commodities.  Exposure to commodity price risks in the utility businesses is also significantly mitigated by current rate-making structures in place for recovery of fuel-related costs as well as the cost of natural gas purchased for resale.  IPL’s electric and gas tariffs and WPL’s wholesale electric and gas tariffs provide for subsequent monthly adjustments to their tariff rates for material changes in prudently incurred commodity costs.  IPL’s and WPL’s rate mechanisms, combined with commodity derivatives, significantly reduce commodity risk associated with their electric and gas margins.  WPL’s retail electric margins have modest exposure to the impact of changes in commodity prices due largely to the current retail recovery mechanism in place in Wisconsin for fuel-related costs. Investment Price - Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL are exposed to investment price risk as a result of their investments in securities, largely related to securities held by their pension and OPEB plans.  Refer to for details of the securities held by their pension and OPEB plans.  Refer to “ ” for the impact on retirement plan costs of changes in the rate of returns earned by plan assets. Interest Rate - Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL are exposed to risk resulting from changes in interest rates associated with variable-rate borrowings.  In addition, Alliant Energy and IPL are exposed to risk resulting from changes in interest rates on cash amounts outstanding under IPL’s sales of accounts receivable program.  Assuming the impact of a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates on variable-rate borrowings and cash amounts outstanding under IPL’s sales of accounts receivable program at December 31, 2020, Alliant Energy’s, IPL’s and WPL’s annual pre-tax expense would increase by approximately $7 million, $0 and $3 million, respectively.  Refer to Notes and for additional information on cash amounts outstanding under IPL’s sales of accounts receivable program, and short- and long-term variable-rate borrowings, respectively.  Refer to “ ” for the impacts of changes in discount rates on retirement plan obligations and costs. New Accounting Standards - Refer to for discussion of new accounting standards impacting Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates - Alliant Energy’s, IPL’s and WPL’s financial statements are prepared in conformity with GAAP, which requires management to apply accounting policies, judgments and assumptions, and make estimates that affect results of operations and the amounts of assets and liabilities reported in the financial statements.  The following accounting policies and estimates are critical to the business and the understanding of financial results as they require critical assumptions and judgments by management.  The results of these assumptions and judgments form the basis for making estimates regarding the results of operations and the amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.  Actual financial results may differ materially from estimates.  Management has discussed these critical accounting policies and estimates with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.  Refer to for additional discussion of accounting policies and estimates used in the preparation of the financial statements. Regulatory Assets and Regulatory Liabilities - IPL and WPL are regulated by various federal and state regulatory agencies.  As a result, they are subject to GAAP for regulated operations, which recognizes that the actions of a regulator can provide reasonable assurance of the existence of an asset or liability.  Regulatory assets or regulatory liabilities arise as a result of a difference between GAAP and actions imposed by the regulatory agencies in the rate-making process.  Regulatory assets generally represent incurred costs that have been deferred as such costs are probable of recovery in future customer rates.  Regulatory liabilities generally represent obligations to make refunds to customers or amounts collected in rates for which the related costs have not yet been incurred.  Regulatory assets and regulatory liabilities are recognized in accordance with the rulings of applicable federal and state regulators, and future regulatory rulings may impact the carrying value and accounting treatment of regulatory assets and regulatory liabilities. Assumptions and judgments are made each reporting period regarding whether regulatory assets are probable of future recovery and regulatory liabilities are probable future obligations by considering factors such as regulatory environment changes, rate orders issued by the applicable regulatory agencies, historical decisions by such regulatory agencies regarding similar regulatory assets and regulatory liabilities, and subsequent events of such regulatory agencies.  The decisions made by regulatory authorities have an impact on the recovery of costs, the rate of return on invested capital and the timing and amount of assets to be recovered by rates.  A change in these decisions may result in a material impact on results of operations and the amount of assets and liabilities in the financial statements. provides details of the nature and amounts of regulatory assets and regulatory liabilities assessed at December 31, 2020. Income Taxes - Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL are subject to income taxes in various jurisdictions.  Assumptions and judgments are made each reporting period to estimate income tax assets, liabilities, benefits and expenses.  Judgments and assumptions are supported by historical data and reasonable projections.  Significant changes in these judgments and assumptions could have a material impact on financial condition and results of operations.  Alliant Energy’s and IPL’s critical assumptions and judgments for 2020 include estimates of qualifying deductions for repairs expenditures and allocation of mixed service costs due to the impact of Iowa rate-making principles on such property-related differences.  Critical assumptions and judgments also include projections of future taxable income used to determine the ability to utilize net operating losses and credit carryforwards prior to their expiration.  Refer to for further discussion of tax matters. Effect of Rate-making on Property-related Differences - Alliant Energy’s and IPL’s effective income tax rates are normally impacted by certain property-related differences at IPL for which deferred tax is not recorded in the income statement pursuant to Iowa rate-making principles.  Changes in methods or assumptions regarding the amount of IPL’s qualifying repairs expenditures, allocation of mixed service costs, and costs related to retirement or removal of depreciable property could result in a material impact on Alliant Energy’s and IPL’s financial condition and results of operations. Carryforward Utilization - Significant federal tax credit carryforwards and federal and state net operating loss carryforwards exist for Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL as of December 31, 2020.  Based on projections of current and future taxable income, Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL plan to utilize substantially all of these carryforwards prior to their expiration.  Taxable income must be reduced by federal net operating losses carryforwards prior to utilizing federal tax credit carryforwards.  Alliant Energy does not expect to utilize all of its federal net operating loss carryforwards until 2023, and therefore, currently does not expect to utilize 2002 vintage federal credit carryforwards prior to their expiration in 2022, resulting in valuation allowances that remain as of December 31, 2020.  Refer to for discussion of expected utilization of 2003 vintage federal credit carryforwards prior to their expiration in 2023, which resulted in the reversal of previously recorded valuation allowances in 2020.  Federal credit carryforwards generated from 2003 through 2009, which amount to $17 million for Alliant Energy, are expected to be utilized within five years of expiration.  All other federal credit carryforwards and federal net operating loss carryforwards are expected to be utilized more than five years before expiration.  Changes in tax regulations or assumptions regarding current and future taxable income could require changes to valuation allowances in the future resulting in a material impact on financial condition and results of operations. Long-Lived Assets - Periodic assessments regarding the recoverability of certain long-lived assets are completed when factors indicate the carrying value of such assets may not be recoverable or such assets are planned to be sold.  These assessments require significant assumptions and judgments by management.  The long-lived assets assessed for impairment generally include certain assets within regulated operations that may not be fully recovered from IPL’s and WPL’s customers as a result of regulatory decisions in the future, and assets within non-utility operations that are proposed to be sold or are currently generating operating losses. Regulated Operations - Alliant Energy’s, IPL’s and WPL’s long-lived assets within their regulated operations that were assessed for impairment and plant abandonment in 2020 included IPL’s and WPL’s generating units subject to early retirement. Generating Units Subject to Early Retirement - Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL evaluate future plans for their electric generation fleet and have announced the early retirement of certain older and less-efficient EGUs.  When it becomes probable that an EGU will be retired before the end of its useful life, Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL must assess whether the EGU meets the criteria to be considered probable of abandonment.  EGUs that are considered probable of abandonment generally have material remaining net book values and are expected to cease operations in the near term significantly before the end of their original estimated useful lives.  If an EGU meets such criteria to be considered probable of abandonment, Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL must assess the probability of full recovery of the remaining carrying value of such EGU.  If it is probable that regulators will not allow full recovery of and a full return on the remaining net book value of the abandoned EGU, an impairment charge is recognized equal to the difference between the remaining carrying value and the present value of the future revenues expected from the abandoned EGU. Alliant Energy and IPL concluded that Lansing, and Alliant Energy and WPL concluded that Edgewater Unit 5, met the criteria to be considered probable of abandonment in 2020.  IPL and WPL are currently allowed a full recovery of and a full return on its respective EGU from both its retail and wholesale customers, and as a result, Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL concluded that no impairment was required as of December 31, 2020.  Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL evaluated their other EGUs that are subject to early retirement and determined that no other EGUs met the criteria to be considered probable of abandonment as of December 31, 2020. provides additional details of these assets anticipated to be retired early. Unbilled Revenues - Unbilled revenues are primarily associated with utility operations.  Energy sales to individual customers are based on the reading of customers’ meters, which occurs on a systematic basis throughout the month.  Amounts of energy delivered to customers since the date of the last meter reading are estimated at the end of each reporting period and the corresponding estimated unbilled revenue is recorded.  The unbilled revenue is based on estimates of daily system demand volumes, customer usage by class, temperature impacts, line losses and the most recent customer rates.  Such process involves the use of various judgments and assumptions and significant changes in these judgments and assumptions could have a material impact on results of operations.  As of December 31, 2020, unbilled revenues related to Alliant Energy’s utility operations were $174 million ($ 92 million at IPL and $ 82 million at WPL). Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits - Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL sponsor various defined benefit pension and OPEB plans that provide benefits to a significant portion of their employees and retirees.  Assumptions and judgments are made periodically to estimate the obligations and costs related to their retirement plans.  There are many judgments and assumptions involved in determining an entity’s pension and other postretirement liabilities and costs each period including employee demographics (including life expectancies and compensation levels), discount rates, assumed rates of return and funding.  Changes made to plan provisions may also impact current and future benefits costs.  Judgments and assumptions are supported by historical data and reasonable projections and are reviewed at least annually.  The following table shows the impacts of changing certain key actuarial assumptions discussed above (in millions): Contingencies - Assumptions and judgments are made each reporting period regarding the future outcome of contingent events.  Loss contingency amounts are recorded for any contingent events for which the likelihood of loss is probable and able to be reasonably estimated based upon current available information.  The amounts recorded may differ from actuals when the uncertainty is resolved.  The estimates made in accounting for contingencies, and the gains and losses that are recorded upon the ultimate resolution of these uncertainties, could have a significant effect on results of operations and the amount of assets and liabilities in the financial statements. Effective January 1, 2020 upon the adoption of the new accounting standard for credit losses, certain contingencies, such as Alliant Energy Resources, LLC’s guarantees of the partnership obligations of an affiliate of Whiting Petroleum, require estimation each reporting period of the expected credit losses on those contingencies.  These estimates require significant judgment and result in recognition of a credit loss liability sooner than the previous accounting standards, which required recognition when the contingency became probable and could be reasonably estimated based on then currently available information.  With respect to Alliant Energy’s guarantees of the partnership obligations of an affiliate of Whiting Petroleum, the most significant judgments in determining the credit loss liability were the estimate of the exposure under the guarantees and the methodology used for calculating the credit loss liability.  As of December 31, 2020, Alliant Energy currently estimates the exposure to be a portion of the known partnership abandonment obligations.  The methodology used to determine the credit loss liability considers both quantitative and qualitative information, which utilizes potential outcomes in a range of possible estimated amounts.  Factors considered include market and external data points, the creditworthiness of the other partners, Whiting Petroleum’s emergence from bankruptcy in the third quarter of 2020, and forecasted cash flow expenditures associated with the abandonment obligations based on information made available to Alliant Energy. provides discussion of the adoption of the new accounting standard for credit losses. provides further discussion of contingencies assessed at December 31, 2020 that may have a material impact on financial condition and results of operations, including impacts to Alliant Energy’s ATC Holdings equity earnings as a result of future changes in FERC’s evaluation of certain MISO return on equity complaints, various pending legal proceedings, guarantees and indemnifications.