********************Item 1a: Risk Factors********************

You should carefully consider each of the risks described below relating to Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL, together with all of the other information contained in this combined report, before making an investment decision with respect to our securities.  If any of the following risks develop into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected, and you may lose all or part of your investment. Risks Related to Business Operations A cyber attack may disrupt our operations or lead to a loss or misuse of confidential and proprietary information or potential liability - We operate in an industry that requires the continuous use and operation of information and telecommunications systems.  We face threats from use of malicious code (such as malware, viruses and ransomware), employee theft or misuse, advanced persistent threats, vulnerabilities (such as the log4j and MOVEit vulnerabilities), fraud attempts, and phishing attacks.  Incidents of ransomware attacks have been increasing in frequency and magnitude.  Emerging artificial intelligence technologies may be used to develop new hacking tools, exploit vulnerabilities, obscure malicious activities, and increase the difficulty detecting threats.  Cyber attacks targeting electronic control systems used at our generating facilities and for electric and gas distribution systems could result in a full or partial disruption of our electric and/or gas operations.  We have relied on a global supply chain for certain components of our operating and technology systems, which may increase our exposure to cyber attacks.  Any disruption of these operations could result in a loss of service to customers and a significant decrease in revenues, as well as significant expense to repair system damage and remedy security breaches.  Due to the evolving nature of cyber attacks and cybersecurity, our current safeguards to protect our operating systems and information technology assets may not always be effective.  We rely on third parties for software to protect against cyber attacks and we are at risk if such third parties are targets of cyber attacks.  Measures taken to avoid, detect, mitigate or recover from cybersecurity breaches or incidents may be insufficient or become ineffective, and there are no assurances that cybersecurity breaches or incidents will not impact our business, operations and financial condition.  If the technology systems were to fail or be breached by a cyber attack or a computer virus, and not be recovered in a timely fashion, we may be unable to fulfill critical business functions and confidential data could be compromised, adversely impacting our financial condition and results of operation. In addition, we use information technology systems to collect and retain sensitive information, including personal information about our customers, shareowners and employees.  In some cases, we outsource administration of certain functions to vendors that have been or could be targets of cyber attacks.  Any theft, loss and/or fraudulent use of customer, shareowner, employee or proprietary data as a result of a cyber attack could subject us to significant litigation, liability and costs, as well as adversely impact our reputation with customers and regulators, among others. Demand for energy may decrease - Our results of operations are affected by the demand for energy in our service territories.  Energy demand may decrease due to many things, including economic conditions, proliferation of customer and third party-owned generation, technological advances that reduce the costs of renewable energy and storage solutions for our customers, government policies, such as the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (IRA Act), which incentivize customer and third party-owned generation, loss of service territory or franchises, energy efficiency measures, technological advances that improve energy efficiency, third-party disrupters, loss of wholesale customers, loss of customers that pursue their own renewable projects to achieve specific sustainability goals, and the adverse impact of tariffs on our customers.  The loss of sales due to lower demand for energy may increase our rates for remaining customers, as our rates must cover our fixed costs.  Increased customer rates may cause decreased demand for energy as customers move to customer and third party-owned generation and implement energy efficiency measures to reduce costs.  The loss of customers, the inability to replace those customers with new customers, and the decrease in demand for energy could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our strategy includes large construction projects, which are subject to risks - Our strategy includes constructing renewable generating facilities, energy storage facilities, natural gas-fired generating facilities and large-scale additions and upgrades to our electric and gas distribution systems and generating assets.  These construction projects are subject to various risks.  These risks include: the inability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals and permits in a timely manner; adverse interpretation or enforcement of permit conditions; changes in applicable laws or regulations; changes in costs of materials, equipment, commodities, fuel or labor including due to inflation, tariffs, labor issues, or supply shortages; delays caused by construction accidents or injuries; shortages in materials, equipment, or qualified labor; changes to the scope or timing of the projects; general contractors, subcontractors, or equipment not performing as required under their contracts; the inability to agree to contract terms or disputes in contract terms; the inability to successfully resolve warranty claims; poor initial cost estimates; work stoppages; adverse weather conditions; government actions; legal action; unforeseen engineering or technology issues; limited access to capital or other financing arrangements; and other adverse economic conditions.  We outsource certain business functions to third-party suppliers and service providers, and substandard performance by those third parties could harm our business, reputation and results of operations.  We may not be able to recover all costs for the projects in rates and face increased risk of potential impairment of our project investment if a construction project is not completed or is delayed, or final costs exceed expectations or the costs approved by our regulators.  For example, WPL has notified the PSCW that its solar generating facility developments have exceeded the approved costs.  We may not be able to meet capacity requirements to comply with electric demand planning reserve margins if a construction project is not completed or is delayed.  Inability to recover costs, or inability to complete projects or recover costs in a timely manner, could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Supply chain disruptions could negatively impact our operations and implementation of our strategy - Our operations and strategy depend on the global supply chain to procure the equipment, materials and other resources necessary to provide services in a safe and reliable manner and construct new utility infrastructure.  The global supply chain has experienced, and is expected to continue to experience, disruptions due to a multitude of factors, such as geopolitical issues, supplier manufacturing constraints, labor issues, transportation issues, resource availability, long lead times, tariffs, tighter credit markets, inflation, pandemics and weather.  These disruptions have impacted, and are expected to continue to impact, our ability to receive critical materials, supplies and services in a timely and economic manner.  This could have an adverse impact by increasing costs and delaying the construction, maintenance or repair of items that are needed to support normal operations or are necessary to our construction projects to implement our strategy.  Inability to recover higher costs, or inability to complete projects in a timely manner, could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Our utility business is seasonal and may be adversely affected by the impacts of weather - Electric and gas utility businesses are seasonal businesses.  Demand for electricity is greater in the summer months associated with higher air conditioning needs and winter months associated with higher heating needs.  Demand for natural gas depends significantly upon temperature patterns in winter months due to heavy use in residential and commercial heating.  As a result, our overall operating results in the future may fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis.  In addition, we have historically generated less revenues and income when temperatures are warmer in the winter and/or cooler in the summer.  Thus, mild winters and/or summers could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We face risks associated with operating electric and natural gas infrastructure - The operation of electric generation and distribution infrastructure involves many risks, including start-up risks, breakdown or failure of equipment, fires developing from our power lines, transformers, energy storage facilities, or substations, dam failure at one of our hydroelectric facilities, the dependence on a specific fuel source, including the supply and transportation of fuel, the risk of performance below expected or contracted levels of output or efficiency, members of the public or contractors coming into contact with our infrastructure, public and employee safety, operator error and ruptured oil and chemical tanks.  The operation of our natural gas distribution and transportation infrastructure also involves many risks, such as leaks, explosions, mechanical problems, members of the public or contractors coming into contact with our infrastructure, and employee and public safety.  In addition, the North American electric transmission grid is highly interconnected and, in extraordinary circumstances, disruptions at particular points within the grid could cause an extensive power outage in our service territories.  Increased utilization of customer- and third party-owned generation technologies could also disrupt the reliability and balance of the electricity grid.  Further, the electric transmission system in our utilities’ service territories can experience constraints, limiting the ability to transmit electricity within our service territories.  The transmission constraints could result in an inability to deliver electricity from generating facilities, particularly wind and solar generating facilities, to the national grid, or to access lower cost sources of electricity. These risks could cause significant harm to employees, customers and the public, including loss of human life, significant damage to property, adverse impacts on the environment and impairment of our operations, all of which could result in substantial financial losses to us.  We are also responsible for compliance with new and changing regulatory standards involving safety, reliability and environmental compliance, including regulations under the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, the Occupational Health and Safety Administration, the North American Electric Reliability Corporation and the Department of Homeland Security Transportation Security Administration.  Failure to meet these regulatory standards could result in substantial fines.  Lastly, we have obligations to provide electric and natural gas service to customers under regulatory requirements and contractual commitments.  Failure to meet our service obligations, and failure of IPL’s solar generating facilities to achieve a certain level of output, could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Storms or other natural disasters may impact our operations in unpredictable ways - Storms and other natural disasters, including events such as floods, tornadoes, windstorms like the 2020 derecho in Iowa, blizzards, ice storms, extreme hot temperatures, extreme cold temperatures, fires, wildfires, solar flares or pandemics may adversely impact our ability to generate, purchase or distribute electric energy and gas or obtain fuel or other critical supplies.  In addition, we could incur large costs to repair damage to our generating facilities and electric and gas infrastructure, or costs related to environmental remediation, due to storms or other natural disasters.  The restoration costs may not be fully covered by insurance policies and may not be fully recovered in rates, or recovery in rates may be delayed.  Storms and natural disasters may impact our customers and the resulting reduced demand for energy could cause lower sales and revenues, which may not be replaced or recovered in rates, or rate recovery may be delayed.  Any of these items could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Threats of terrorism and catastrophic events that could result from terrorism may impact our operations in unpredictable ways - We are subject to direct and indirect effects of terrorist threats and activities.  Generation, transmission and distribution facilities, in general, have been identified as potential targets of physical or cyber attacks.  Physical attacks on transmission and distribution facilities that appeared to be terrorist-style attacks have occurred.  Our gas distribution system could also be the target of terrorist threats and activities.  The risks posed by such attacks could include, among other things, the inability to generate, purchase or distribute electric energy or obtain fuel sources, the increased cost of security and insurance, the disruption of, volatility in, or other effects on capital markets, and a decline in the economy and/or energy usage within our service territories, all of which could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.  In addition, the cost of repairing damage to our facilities and infrastructure caused by acts of terrorism, and the loss of revenue if such events prevent us from providing utility service to our customers, could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. We may not be able to fully recover costs related to commodity prices - We have natural gas and coal supply and transportation contracts in place for some of the natural gas and coal we require to generate electricity.  We also have transportation and supply agreements in place to facilitate delivery of natural gas to our customers.  Our counterparties to these contracts may not fulfill their obligations to provide natural gas, coal, financial settlements or collateral to us due to financial or operational problems caused by natural disasters, severe weather, economic conditions, labor shortages, employee strikes, transportation issues, pandemics, physical attacks or cyber attacks.  If we were unable to obtain enough natural gas or coal for our electric generating facilities under our existing contracts, or to obtain electricity under existing or future purchased power agreements, we could be required to purchase natural gas or coal at higher prices, need to secure higher cost delivery of natural gas or coal, be forced to curtail the operation of our natural gas-fired or coal-fired generating facilities, be forced to purchase electricity from higher-cost generating resources in the Midcontinent Independent System Operator, Inc. (MISO) energy market and/or be required to purchase replacement capacity to comply with electric demand planning reserve margins.  We may be obligated to pay for coal deliveries under our contracts even if our coal-fired generating facilities do not operate enough to fully utilize the amounts of coal covered by the contracts.  If, for natural gas delivery to our customers, we were unable to obtain our natural gas supply requirements under existing or future natural gas supply and transportation contracts, we could be required to purchase natural gas at higher prices from other sources.  Natural gas market prices have been volatile in the past and could be volatile in the future due to additional future regulations, increased demand including due to increased liquified natural gas demand from foreign countries, limited global suppliers of natural gas, periods of extremely cold temperatures or disruption in supply caused by major storms or pipeline explosions.  Our utility business also operates wind and solar generating facilities that sell electricity in the MISO energy market.  If MISO energy market prices result in unfavorable pricing for wind or solar energy, this may reduce the energy market revenue produced by those facilities and result in higher electricity costs that would need to be recovered from customers.  We may not be able to pass on all of the changes in costs to our customers, especially at WPL where we do not have an automatic retail electric fuel cost adjustment clause to timely recover such costs and where electric fuel cost recovery may be limited if WPL earns in excess of its authorized return on common equity.  Increases in prices and costs due to disruptions that are not recovered in rates fully or not recovered in a timely manner, may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Energy industry changes could have a negative effect on our businesses - We operate in a highly regulated business environment.  The advent of new and unregulated markets has the potential to significantly impact our financial condition and results of operations.  Further, competitors may not be subject to the same operating, regulatory and financial requirements that we are, potentially causing a substantial competitive disadvantage for us.  Changes in public policy, such as new tax incentives that we cannot take advantage of or efforts to deregulate the utility industry, could provide an advantage to competitors.  Changes in technology could also alter the channels through which electric customers produce, store, buy or utilize power, which could reduce the revenues or increase the expenses of our utility companies.  Increased competition in our primary retail electric service territories may have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. We face risks related to non-utility operations - We rely on our non-utility operations for a portion of our earnings.  If our non-utility holdings do not perform at expected levels, we could experience an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Laws and Regulations Our utility business is significantly impacted by government legislation, regulation and oversight - Our utility financial condition is influenced by how regulatory authorities, including the IUB, the PSCW and FERC, establish the rates we can charge our customers, our authorized rates of return and common equity levels, and the costs that may be recovered from customers.  Our ability to timely obtain rate adjustments to earn authorized rates of return depends upon timely regulatory action under applicable statutes and regulations, and cannot be guaranteed.  IPL and WPL may not receive an adequate amount of rate relief to recover all costs and earn their authorized rates of return, rates may be reduced, rate refunds may be required, rate adjustments may not be approved on a timely basis, costs may not be otherwise recovered through rates, future rates may be temporarily frozen, laws or rules may limit the ability to file rate adjustments or the period covered by a rate adjustment, regulatory decisions may limit the ability to defer recovery of and a return on prudently incurred costs in between rate reviews, certain rate base items may not receive a full weighted average cost of capital, and authorized rates of return on capital may be reduced.  As a result, we may experience adverse impacts on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, our operations are subject to extensive regulation primarily by the IUB, the PSCW and FERC.  We are also subject to oversight and monitoring by organizations such as the North American Electric Reliability Corporation, the Midwest Reliability Organization, the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, MISO and the Department of Homeland Security Transportation Security Administration.  The impacts on our operations include: our ability to site and construct new energy facilities, such as renewable energy or battery storage projects, and recover associated costs; our ability to decommission generating facilities and recover related costs and the remaining carrying value of these facilities and related assets; changes to MISO’s resource adequacy process establishing seasonal capacity planning reserve margin and capacity accreditation requirements that may impact how and when new generating facilities such as IPL’s and WPL’s additional solar generation may be accredited with energy capacity, and may require IPL and WPL to adjust their current resource plans, to add resources to meet the requirements of MISO’s seasonal resource adequacy process, or procure capacity whereby such costs might not be recovered in rates; the impact of the lack of availability of existing and new generating facilities has on our accredited capacity for such facilities pursuant to MISO’s seasonal resource adequacy process; IPL’s ability to achieve certain aggregate summer capacity factors under the consumer protection plan for its up to 400 MW of solar generation projects; the rates paid to transmission operators and how those costs are recovered from customers, including our ability to continue to use a transmission rider in Iowa; our ability to site, construct and recover costs for new natural gas pipelines; our ability to recover costs to upgrade our electric and gas distribution systems; the amount of certain sources of energy we must use, such as renewable sources; our ability to purchase generating facilities and recover the costs associated therewith; our ability to sell utility assets and any conditions placed upon the sale of such assets; our ability to enter into purchased power agreements and recover the costs associated therewith; the allocation of expenditures by transmission companies on transmission network upgrades and our ability to recover costs associated therewith; reliability; safety; the issuance of securities and ability to use other financing arrangements for our renewable energy projects; accounting matters; and transactions between affiliates.  These regulatory authorities and organizations are also empowered to impose financial penalties and other sanctions, including requirements to implement new compliance programs.  Failure to obtain approvals for any of these matters in a timely manner, or receipt of approvals with uneconomical conditions, may cause us not to pursue the construction of such projects, or to record an impairment of our assets, or may cause a delay in construction of such projects such that we are not able to meet new demand growth, and may have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.  Our regulators or legislatures could change regulations or laws to permit third parties to provide renewable energy directly to our customers without being treated as a utility, potentially causing a competitive disadvantage for us.  Changes to these regulations could materially increase our costs or cause us to reconsider our strategy, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Provisions of the Wisconsin Utility Holding Company Act may limit our ability to invest in or grow our non-utility activities and may deter potential purchasers who might be willing to pay a premium for our stock. Our utility businesses are subject to numerous environmental laws and regulations - Our utilities are subject to numerous federal, regional, state and local environmental laws, regulations, court orders, and international treaties.  These laws, regulations and court orders generally concern emissions into the air, discharges into water, use of water, wetlands preservation, remediation of contamination, waste disposal and containment, disposal of coal combustion residuals, hazardous waste disposal, threatened and endangered species, and noise regulation, among others.  Failure to comply with such laws, regulations and court orders, or to obtain or comply with any necessary environmental permits pursuant to such laws and regulations, could result in injunctions, fines or other sanctions.  Environmental laws and regulations affecting power generation and electric and gas distribution are complex and subject to continued uncertainty and could be changed by the current or future Presidential or Gubernatorial Administrations.  These laws and regulations have imposed, and proposed laws and regulations could impose in the future, additional costs on our utility operations.  We have incurred, and will continue to incur, capital and other expenditures to comply with these and other environmental laws and regulations.  Changes in or new development of environmental restrictions may force us to incur significant expenses or expenses that may exceed our estimates.  Our future plans and existing operations may be impacted by changing expectations, including heightened emphasis on environmental and social justice concerns related to supporting an equitable transition to cleaner energy and a low-carbon economy.  There can be no assurance that we would be able to recover all or any increased environmental costs from our customers.  Failure to comply with the laws, regulations and court orders, changes in the laws and regulations and failure to recover costs of compliance may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Actions related to global climate change and reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions could negatively impact us - We have established GHG reduction goals and continue to review our strategy and our role in supporting the transition to a low-carbon economy.  However, the ability to achieve our GHG reduction goals and implement our strategy is subject to uncertainties as to how climate change concerns will ultimately impact us and various factors that may be out of our control.  These uncertainties include transition risks related to laws and regulations, technology and business operations, or economic and market conditions.  In addition, there are physical risks associated with adapting to changing climate conditions and extreme weather events.  Further, assessment of the science to evaluate and limit global temperature rise continues to evolve.  We could incur costs or other obligations to comply with future GHG regulations, and could become the target of legal claims or challenges, because generating electricity using fossil fuels emits GHGs.  Further, investors may determine that we are too reliant on fossil fuels, reducing demand for our stock, which may cause our stock price to decrease, or not buy our debt securities, which may cause our cost of capital to increase.  We could face additional pressures from customers, investors or other stakeholders to more rapidly reduce GHG emissions on a voluntary-basis, including faster adoption of lower GHG emitting technologies and management of excess renewable energy credits.  The pace and feasibility to fully achieve decarbonization is also contingent on the future development and full-scale deployment of emerging energy technologies and supporting infrastructure, as well as electrification of other economic sectors.  We may not be able to recover all costs for projects to reduce GHG emissions in rates if regulators determine that the pace of GHG emissions efforts or new technologies are not prudent.  The extent of the EPA’s proposed rules to regulate GHG emissions at fossil-fuel fired electric generating units and specific impacts, including state plans to implement the emissions reductions, remains uncertain.  There could also be changes by the current or future Presidential or Gubernatorial Administrations.  Various legislative and regulatory proposals to address climate change at the national, state and local levels continue to be introduced.  Potential future requirements to reduce GHGs from the energy and manufacturing sectors could affect our operations in various ways.  Regulation or legislation mandating GHG emissions reductions or other clean energy standards affecting utility companies could materially increase costs, causing some electric generating units to be uneconomical to operate or maintain.  We are vulnerable to potential risks associated with transition to a lower-carbon economy that may extend to our supply chain and natural gas operations.  Regulation of oil and gas production could affect our upstream supply of natural gas for electricity generation and to provide directly to our residential and business customers from our local distribution company.  This could result in rapid increased demand for alternative non-fossil energy sources and economy-wide electrification.  Changes to regional and local climate trends such as the frequency, seasonality, and severity of weather conditions could directly and indirectly impact our company.  Acute and chronic physical risks could disrupt our operations or affect our property.  Furthermore, it could affect the timing of peak demand and overall energy consumption of our customers.  We cannot provide any assurance regarding the potential impacts of climate change or related policies and regulations to reduce GHG emissions on our operations, which could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Changes to certain tax elections, tax regulations and future taxable income could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations - We have significantly reduced our federal and state income tax obligations through tax planning strategies and the utilization of bonus depreciation deductions for certain expenditures for property.  These tax planning strategies and bonus depreciation deductions have reduced taxable income, which in turn has generated large tax credit carryforwards.  We plan to utilize all of these tax credit carryforwards in the future to reduce our income tax obligations.  If we cannot generate enough taxable income in the future to utilize all of the tax credit carryforwards before they expire due to lower than expected financial performance or changes to tax regulations, we may incur material charges to earnings.  The IRA Act allows for the sale or transfer of eligible renewable tax credits to other taxpayers.  We plan to sell a substantial amount of our eligible renewable tax credits.  The inability to sell renewable tax credits at reasonable terms, or if renewable tax credits that we generate or sell are determined to not be eligible or eligible at a different rate, could materially impact our tax credit carryforward position or result in liability to purchasers of the tax credits.  Repeal or amendment of the IRA Act, or portions of the IRA Act, could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.  In addition, our tax liability is determined by our taxable income multiplied by the current tax rates in effect.  If the federal or state tax rates are increased, we may experience adverse impacts to our financial condition and results of operations until those rates are reflected in our regulatory filings. Our utility business currently operates wind and solar generating facilities, which generate production tax credits that are eligible to be used to reduce our federal tax obligations.  The amount of production tax credits we earn is dependent on the level of electricity output generated by our qualifying generating facilities and sold to an unrelated buyer, and the applicable tax credit rate.  A variety of operating and economic parameters, including transmission constraints, the imbalance of supply and demand of energy resulting in unfavorable pricing for wind or solar energy, adverse weather conditions and breakdown or failure of equipment, could significantly reduce the production tax credits generated by our wind or solar facilities resulting in a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. Our utility business is developing battery storage facilities, which are expected to generate investment tax credits.  Investment tax credits are dependent on the tax capitalized costs of the qualifying generating facilities and the applicable tax credit rate.  If there is a disagreement on the qualifying costs or whether the facility qualifies for higher levels of investment tax credits, the amount of investment tax credits awarded may be significantly reduced, possibly adversely impacting our financial condition and results of operations. The IRA Act introduced new labor requirements that are required to qualify for the full value of renewable tax credits.  Failure to meet these requirements on renewable projects that began construction after January 28, 2023 could result in a significant reduction in the amount of renewable tax credits, which could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. Risks Related to Economic, Financial and Labor Market Conditions We are subject to employee workforce factors that could affect our businesses - We operate in an industry that requires specialized technical skills.  Further, we must build a workforce that is innovative, customer-focused and competitive to thrive in the future in order to successfully implement our strategy.  We have seen and anticipate a steady pace of retirements due to our aging workforce.  The labor market for our employees is very competitive, increasing the likelihood that we may lose critical employees or have difficulty hiring qualified employees for critical roles and not have enough time to adequately train employees to prepare for upcoming retirements.  It may be difficult to hire and retain such a skilled workforce due to labor market conditions, such as low unemployment rates in our service territories, the length of time employees need to acquire the skills, and general competition for talent.  The competitive employment market also increases the amounts we pay our employees in critical positions.  We are also subject to collective bargaining agreements covering approximately 1,800 employees.  Any work stoppage experienced in connection with negotiations of collective bargaining agreements could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations as well as our ability to implement our strategy. We are subject to limitations on our ability to pay dividends - Alliant Energy is a holding company with no significant operations of its own.  The primary sources of funds for Alliant Energy to pay dividends to its shareowners are dividends and distributions from its subsidiaries, primarily its utility subsidiaries.  Our subsidiaries are separate and distinct legal entities and have no obligation to pay any amounts to Alliant Energy, whether by dividends, distributions, loans or other payments.  The ability of our subsidiaries to pay dividends or make distributions to Alliant Energy and, accordingly, our ability to pay dividends on Alliant Energy common stock will depend on regulatory limitations, earnings, cash flows, capital requirements and general financial condition of our subsidiaries.  Our utilities have dividend payment restrictions based on the terms of regulatory limitations applicable to them.  If we do not receive adequate dividends and distributions from our subsidiaries, then we may not be able to make, or may have to reduce, dividend payments on Alliant Energy common stock. We are subject to risks related to inflation - We have recently experienced a significant increase in inflation.  The impact of supply chain disruptions and other factors continue to create uncertainty in near-term economic conditions, including whether inflation will continue and at what rate.  Increases in inflation raise our costs for labor, materials and services.  Inflation may also cause interest rates to increase, increasing our cost of capital.  Failure to timely recover these increased costs in rates may adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations.  Further, increased costs due to inflation will directly and indirectly increase customer costs, which may decrease demand for energy or impact our customers’ ability to pay their bills, which could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. We may incur material post-closing adjustments related to past asset and business divestitures - We have sold certain non-utility subsidiaries such as Whiting Petroleum Corporation (Whiting Petroleum).  We may continue to incur liabilities relating to our previous ownership of, or the transactions pursuant to which we disposed of, these subsidiaries and assets.  Any potential liability depends on a number of factors outside of our control, including the financial condition of Whiting Petroleum, certain of its partners, and/or their assignees.  Any required payments on retained liabilities, guarantees or indemnification obligations with respect to Whiting Petroleum or other past and future asset or business divestitures could adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. We are dependent on the capital markets and could be negatively impacted by disruptions in the capital markets - Successful implementation of our strategy is dependent upon our ability to access the capital markets.  We have forecasted capital expenditures of approximately $9 billion over the next four years.  Disruption, uncertainty or volatility in the capital markets could increase our cost of capital or limit our ability to raise funds needed to operate our businesses.  Disruptions could be caused by Federal Reserve policies and actions, currency concerns, inflation, economic downturn or uncertainty, monetary policies, a negative view of the utility industry or our company, failures of financial institutions, U.S. debt management concerns, U.S. debt limit and budget debates, including government shutdowns, European and worldwide sovereign debt concerns, other global or geopolitical events, or other factors.  Increases in interest rates will cause the cost of capital to increase and may cause the price of our equity securities to decline.  Any disruptions in capital markets could adversely impact our ability to implement our strategy. We rely on our strong credit ratings to access the credit markets.  If our credit ratings are downgraded for any reason, such as worsening credit metric impacts, negative changes to our regulatory environment, or general negative outlook for the utility industry, we could pay higher interest rates in future financings, the pool of potential lenders could be reduced, borrowing costs under existing credit facilities could increase, our access to the commercial paper market could be limited, or we could be required to provide additional credit assurance, including cash collateral, to contract counterparties.  If our access to capital were to become significantly constrained or costs of capital increased significantly due to lowered credit ratings, prevailing industry conditions, regulatory constraints, volatility of the capital markets, inflation or other factors, our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. Our pension and other postretirement benefits plans are subject to investment and interest rate risk that could negatively impact our financial condition - We have pension and other postretirement benefits plans that provide benefits to many of our employees and retirees.  Costs of providing benefits and related funding requirements of these plans are subject to changes in the liabilities of the plans and market value of the assets that fund the plans.  The funded status of the plans and the related costs reflected in our financial statements are affected by various factors, which are subject to an inherent degree of uncertainty, including economic conditions, financial market performance, interest rates, life expectancies and demographics.  Recessions and volatility in the domestic and international financial markets have negatively affected the asset values of our pension plans at various times in the past.  Poor investment returns or lower interest rates may necessitate accelerated funding of the plans to meet minimum federal government requirements, which could have an adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations.

********************Item 7: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations********************

This MDA includes information relating to Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL, as well as AEF and Corporate Services.  Where appropriate, information relating to a specific entity has been segregated and labeled as such.  The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the Financial Statements and Notes included in this report.  Unless otherwise noted, all “per share” references in MDA refer to earnings per diluted share.  In addition, this MDA includes certain financial information for 2023 compared to 2022.  Refer to MDA in the combined 2022 for details on certain financial information for 2022 compared to 2021. OVERVIEW Mission, Purpose and Strategy Alliant Energy’s mission is to deliver affordable energy solutions and exceptional service that its customers and the communities it serves count on - affordably, safely, reliably, and sustainably.  This mission aligns with Alliant Energy’s purpose - to serve customers and build stronger communities - which guides it through the ever-changing dynamics of the economy and the energy industry.  Alliant Energy takes its responsibility as a corporate citizen seriously and remains a careful steward of the environment and supports the communities in its service territories.  Alliant Energy’s mission and purpose are supported by a strategy focused on meeting the evolving expectations of customers while providing an attractive return for investors, and pursuing emerging technologies and safe, sustainable methods of energy production.  This strategy includes the following key elements: Providing affordable energy solutions for customers - Alliant Energy’s strategy focuses on affordable energy solutions that support retention and growth of its existing customers and attract new customers to its service territories. Key Highlights - • Alliant Energy’s Clean Energy Blueprint, also known as the roadmap for its transition to cleaner energy, continues to add clean energy resources in Iowa and Wisconsin.  As a result, Alliant Energy directly reinvests in the communities it serves through the addition of skilled jobs, economic development and increased tax revenue.  In Wisconsin, WPL completed 639 MW of solar generation in 2023, adding to the 250 MW of solar generation placed in service in 2022, and expects to add another 200 MW of solar generation in 2024, resulting in approximately 1,100 MW of solar generation resources in aggregate.  In Iowa, IPL expects to complete 400 MW of solar generation by the end of 2024.  Completion of these projects is expected to result in approximately 1,500 MW of additional zero-fuel cost solar generation resources for Alliant Energy in aggregate by the end of 2024.  The execution of Alliant Energy’s strategy is expected to result in cost benefits for its utility customers by continuing to add renewable energy projects that generate fuel cost benefits and renewable tax credits that are provided to its electric customers. • Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL currently expect to utilize various provisions of the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 to enhance tax benefits expected from wind, solar and battery storage projects in Iowa and Wisconsin, including transferring certain future tax credits from such projects to other corporate taxpayers.  The Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 is expected to result in more cost benefits for IPL’s and WPL’s customers, higher rate base amounts, and improvements in long-term cash flows over the life of the solar, battery storage and wind repowering projects.  Refer to for discussion of $98 million of proceeds from renewable tax credits transferred to other corporate taxpayers in 2023. • Reductions in Iowa corporate income tax rates resulting from tax reform enacted in 2022 are expected to provide cost benefits to IPL’s electric and gas customers in the future. • IPL maintaining flat base rates for its retail electric and gas customers in 2021, 2022 and 2023. • Significant fuel cost reductions achieved in 2021, 2022 and 2023 as a result of shortening the term of IPL’s DAEC PPA by 5 years, and beginning in 2023 with the May 2023 retirement of Lansing. • Issuance of new long-term debt at historically low interest rates for IPL ($300 million of 3.1% senior debentures due 2051) and WPL ($300 million of 1.95% green bonds due 2031) in 2021 and WPL ($600 million of 3.95% green bonds due 2032) in 2022. • In 2023, the U.S. Department of Energy Office of Clean Energy selected the Columbia Energy Storage Project, a first of its kind in the U.S., 20 MW CO2-based long-duration energy storage system at the retiring coal-fired Columbia site, for award negotiations to receive up to $30 million in grant funding.  Alliant Energy, with support from various project partners, currently expects to submit project plans to the PSCW in 2024 after award negotiations with the DOE are finished.  Any grant proceeds would reduce the cost of the project for WPL’s customers. • Levelized cost recovery mechanism for the remaining net book value of Edgewater Unit 5, which helps reduce customer costs. Making customer-focused investments - Alliant Energy’s strategic priorities include making significant customer-focused investments toward cleaner and more reliable, resilient, and sustainable customer energy solutions.  Alliant Energy’s strategy drives a capital allocation process focused on: 1) transitioning its generation portfolio to meet the growing interest of customers for reliable and sustainable sources of energy, 2) upgrading its electric and gas distribution systems to strengthen safety, reliability and resiliency, as well as enable distributed energy solutions in its service territories, and 3) enhancing its customers’ and employees’ experience with evolving technology and greater flexibility. Key Highlights (refer to “ ” for details) - • Development and acquisition of additional renewable energy, including approximately 1,100 MW of solar generation at WPL with in-service dates in 2022-2024, approximately 275 MW of battery storage at WPL with in-service dates in 2024 and 2025, and approximately 400 MW of solar generation at IPL with in-service dates in 2024.  In addition, IPL and WPL continue to evaluate additional opportunities to add more renewable generation, including repowering of existing wind farms and additional solar generation and distributed energy resources, including community solar and small-scale energy storage systems. • Plans to construct and/or acquire additional renewable, battery and natural gas resources to meet the requirements of MISO’s seasonal resource adequacy process establishing capacity planning reserve margin and capacity accreditation requirements effective with the 2023/2024 MISO Planning Year. • Requested PSCW approval to construct improvements at the natural gas-fired Neenah Energy Facility and Sheboygan Falls Energy Facility, which would increase the capacity and efficiency of the EGUs.  A decision from the PSCW is currently expected by the second quarter of 2024. • Improving reliability and resiliency with more underground electric distribution, and enabling distributed energy solutions with higher capacity lines.  Currently, approximately 27% of Alliant Energy’s electric distribution system is underground. • Alliant Energy continues to partner with its commercial and industrial customers to help develop renewable solutions to enhance their sustainability initiatives, including various customer- and community-hosted solar facilities in Iowa and Wisconsin.  Four such facilities were completed in Wisconsin in 2021 and 2022, and several more are currently planned to be completed in 2024 in Iowa and Wisconsin. • Installing fiber optic routes between Alliant Energy’s facilities to enhance its communications network to improve resiliency and reliability of, and enable and strengthen, the integrated grid network focused on less densely populated rural areas. Growing customer demand - Alliant Energy’s strategy supports expanding electric and gas usage in its service territories by promoting electrification initiatives and economic development. Key Highlights - • Alliant’s Energy was named a Top Utility in Economic Development by Site Selection Magazine for the fifth year in a row, and was named a Top Utility by Business Facilities Magazine for the fourth year in a row. • Alliant Energy has various development-ready sites throughout Iowa and Wisconsin, including the 1,300-acre Big Cedar Industrial Center Mega-site in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, and the 465-acre Prairie View Industrial Center Super Park in Ames, Iowa, which are rail-served, ready-to-build manufacturing and industrial sites in close proximity to the regional airport, interstate freeways and IPL’s electric services.  The Big Cedar Industrial Center Mega-site also accesses Travero’s rail-served warehouse in Iowa.  In addition, the Beaver Dam Commerce Park is a 520-acre ready-to-build manufacturing and industrial site in Beaver Dam, Wisconsin, with access to commercial and freight airports, interstate freeways and WPL’s electric services. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Financial Results Overview - The table below includes EPS for Utilities and Corporate Services, ATC Holdings, and Non-utility and Parent, which are non-GAAP financial measures.  Alliant Energy believes these non-GAAP financial measures are useful to investors because they facilitate an understanding of segment performance and trends, and provide additional information about Alliant Energy’s operations on a basis consistent with the measures that management uses to manage its operations and evaluate its performance.  Alliant Energy’s net income and EPS attributable to Alliant Energy common shareowners were as follows (dollars in millions, except per share amounts): Alliant Energy’s Utilities and Corporate Services net income increased by $34 million in 2023 compared to 2022.  The increase was primarily due to higher revenue requirements and AFUDC from capital investments and lower other operation and maintenance expenses at IPL and WPL.  These items were partially offset by higher interest expense, lower retail electric and gas sales primarily due to temperature impacts, and higher depreciation expense. Alliant Energy’s Non-utility and Parent net income decreased by $23 million in 2023 compared to 2022, primarily due to higher interest expense. Net Income Variances - The following items contributed to increased (decreased) net income for 2023 compared to 2022 (in millions): Electric and Gas Revenues and Sales Summary - Electric and gas revenues (in millions), and MWh and Dth sales (in thousands), were as follows: Sales Trends and Temperatures - Alliant Energy’s retail electric and gas sales volumes decreased 2% and 16%, respectively, in 2023 compared to 2022, primarily due to changes in temperatures. Estimated increases (decreases) to operating income from the impacts of temperatures were as follows (in millions): Electric Sales for Resale - Bulk Power and Other - Bulk power and other volume changes were due to changes in sales in the wholesale energy markets operated by MISO.  These changes are impacted by several factors, including the availability and dispatch of Alliant Energy’s EGUs and electricity demand within these wholesale energy markets.  Changes in bulk power and other revenues were largely offset by changes in fuel-related costs, and therefore did not have a significant impact on operating income. Gas Transportation/Other - Gas transportation/other sales volume changes were largely due to changes in the gas volumes supplied to Alliant Energy’s natural gas-fired EGUs caused by the availability and dispatch of such EGUs. Electric Utility Revenue Variances - The following items contributed to increased (decreased) electric utility revenues for 2023 compared to 2022 (in millions): (a) Alliant Energy’s sales for resale bulk power and other revenues decreased primarily due to lower prices for electricity sold by IPL and WPL to MISO wholesale energy markets.  These changes were largely offset by changes in fuel-related costs. (b) WPL’s cost recovery mechanism for retail fuel-related expenses supports deferrals of amounts that fall outside an approved fuel monitoring range of forecasted fuel-related expenses determined by the PSCW each year.  The difference between revenue collected and actual fuel-related expenses incurred within the fuel monitoring range increases or decreases Alliant Energy’s and WPL’s electric utility revenues.  WPL estimates the increase (decrease) to electric utility revenues from amounts within the fuel monitoring range were approximately $6 million and ($6) million in 2023 and 2022, respectively.  Refer to for discussion of deferred fuel-related costs that were outside the approved fuel monitoring range in 2023, 2022 and 2021. Gas Utility Revenue Variances - The following items contributed to increased (decreased) gas utility revenues for 2023 compared to 2022 (in millions): (a) In December 2022, the PSCW issued an order authorizing an annual base rate increase of $9 million for WPL’s retail gas customers, covering the 2023 forward-looking Test Period, which reflects changes in weighted average cost of capital, updated depreciation rates and modifications to certain regulatory asset and regulatory liability amortizations. Electric Production Fuel and Purchased Power Expenses Variances - The following items contributed to (increased) decreased electric production fuel and purchased power expenses for 2023 compared to 2022 (in millions): (a) Electric production fuel costs decreased primarily due to lower natural gas prices in 2023 compared to 2022 and lower coal volumes utilized due to IPL’s retirement of Lansing in May 2023, partially offset by higher natural gas volumes due to higher dispatch of IPL’s and WPL’s natural gas-fired EGUs in 2023. (b) Purchased power expense decreased primarily due to lower prices for electricity purchased by IPL and WPL from MISO wholesale energy markets, and decreased volumes of electricity purchased due to lower retail and wholesale electric sales and less reliance on wholesale energy market purchases due to higher dispatch of IPL’s and WPL’s natural gas-fired EGUs. Electric Transmission Service Expense Variances - The following items contributed to (increased) decreased electric transmission service expense for 2023 compared to 2022 (in millions): Cost of Gas Sold Expense Variances - The following items contributed to (increased) decreased cost of gas sold expense for 2023 compared to 2022 (in millions): Other Operation and Maintenance Expenses Variances - The following items contributed to (increased) decreased other operation and maintenance expenses for 2023 compared to 2022 (in millions): Other Future Considerations - In addition to items discussed in this report, the following key items could impact Alliant Energy’s, IPL’s and WPL’s future financial condition or results of operations: • Financing Plans - Alliant Energy currently expects to issue up to $25 million of common stock in 2024 through its Shareowner Direct Plan.  IPL, WPL and AEF currently expect to issue up to $700 million, $300 million and $700 million of long-term debt, respectively, in 2024.  IPL and AEF have $500 million and $300 million of long-term debt, respectively, maturing in 2024. • Common Stock Dividends - Alliant Energy announced a 6% increase in its targeted 2024 annual common stock dividend to $1.92 per share, which is equivalent to a quarterly rate of $0.48 per share, beginning with the February 2024 dividend payment.  The timing and amount of future dividends is subject to an approved dividend declaration from Alliant Energy’s Board of Directors, and is dependent upon earnings expectations, capital requirements, and general financial business conditions, among other factors. • Cash Flows From Operating Activities - Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL currently expect an increase in future cash flows from operating activities resulting from the transfer of future renewable tax credits to other corporate taxpayers pursuant to the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022.  In addition, Alliant Energy and WPL currently expect an increase in future cash flows from operating activities resulting from higher earnings on increasing rate base at WPL. • IPL’s Electric Sales Trends - In July 2025, IPL’s wholesale power agreement with Southern Minnesota Energy Cooperative will expire.  Sales to Southern Minnesota Energy Cooperative represented approximately 5% of IPL's total electric sales in 2023. • Higher Earnings on Increasing Rate Base - Alliant Energy and WPL currently expect an increase in earnings in 2024 compared to 2023 due to impacts from increasing revenue requirements related to investments in the utility business. • Depreciation and Amortization Expense - Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL currently expect an increase in depreciation and amortization expense in 2024 compared to 2023 due to capital projects placed in service in 2023 and 2024 and lower amortization of WPL’s West Riverside liquidated damages.  Refer to for discussion of WPL’s West Riverside liquidated damages. • Interest Expense - Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL currently expect an increase in interest expense in 2024 compared to 2023 due to financings completed in 2023 and planned in 2024 as discussed above. • AFUDC - Alliant Energy and WPL currently expect a decrease and IPL currently expects an increase in AFUDC in 2024 compared to 2023 largely due to changes in CWIP balances related to construction activity on capital projects. CUSTOMER INVESTMENTS Alliant Energy’s, IPL’s and WPL’s strategic priorities include making significant customer-focused investments toward cleaner energy and more reliable, resilient and sustainable customer solutions.  These priorities include: Clean Energy Blueprint Alliant Energy has developed a Clean Energy Blueprint, or the roadmap for its transition to cleaner energy, as a guide to meet customer demand for affordable, safe, reliable and sustainable energy in Iowa and Wisconsin.  This strategy includes the development and acquisition of additional renewable energy, including approximately 1,100 MW of solar generation at WPL with in-service dates in 2022-2024, approximately 275 MW of battery storage at WPL with in-service dates in 2024 and 2025, and approximately 400 MW of solar generation at IPL with in-service dates in 2024.  In order to support reliable and sustainable energy and meet MISO’s seasonal resource adequacy requirements, Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL continue to evaluate additional opportunities for renewables and battery storage projects, dispatchable gas generation projects, and distributed energy resources, as well as repowering existing wind farms.  Estimated capital expenditures for these planned projects for 2024 through 2027 are included in the “Renewables and battery storage projects” line in the construction and acquisition table in “ .” WPL’s Generation Projects - In 2021 and 2022, WPL received orders from the PSCW for its first and second solar CAs authorizing WPL to acquire, construct, own, and/or operate 675 MW and 414 MW, respectively, of new solar generation in various Wisconsin counties.  In 2022 and 2023, 250 MW and 639 MW of solar projects were placed in service, respectively, and a 200 MW solar project is expected to be placed in service in 2024.  The 1,089 MW of new solar generation is expected to help replace energy and capacity being eliminated with the planned retirements of the coal-fired Edgewater Generating Station (414 MW) by June 1, 2025, and Columbia Units 1 and 2 (595 MW in aggregate) by June 1, 2026, which are the last coal-fired EGUs at WPL. In June 2023, WPL filed requests with the PSCW for approval to construct improvements at the natural gas-fired Neenah Energy Facility and Sheboygan Falls Energy Facility, which would increase the capacity and efficiency of the EGUs.  A decision from the PSCW is currently expected by the second quarter of 2024. In August 2023, WPL received an order from the PSCW authorizing WPL to construct, own and operate 175 MW of battery storage, with 100 MW and 75 MW at the Grant County and Wood County solar projects, respectively, which are currently expected to be placed in service in 2024. In December 2023, WPL received an order from the PSCW authorizing WPL to construct, own and operate approximately 99 MW of battery storage at the Edgewater Generating Station, which is currently expected to be placed in service in 2025. IPL’s Generation Projects - In October 2023, the IUB issued an order approving a modified non-unanimous settlement agreement with the Iowa Office of Consumer Advocate among other stakeholders, for advance rate-making principles for up to 400 MW of solar generation, subject to a cost target of $1,650/kilowatt, including AFUDC and transmission upgrade costs among other costs, and a related return on common equity of no less than 10.25% with the opportunity to request a higher return on common equity in future IPL retail electric rate review filings.  Any reasonable and prudent costs incurred in excess of the cost target are eligible for recovery at the return on common equity determined in IPL retail electric rate review filings.  The IUB’s order also included a consumer protection plan, which monitors IPL’s achievement of certain aggregate summer capacity factors for the up to 400 MW of solar generation projects during June, July and August each calendar year over 30 years.  Actual three-year rolling average summer capacity factors will be compared to target capacity factors, which may result in surpluses or deficits that would be offset against one another and contribute to an accumulated balance in a given calendar year.  Surpluses or deficits will be capped at $3 million in aggregate per year.  At the end of the program, any accumulated deficit balance would be addressed in IPL’s next rate review, and any accumulated surplus balance would not result in any return to IPL.  In November 2023, IPL accepted these advance rate-making principles. In 2023, the IUB issued GCU Certificates granting IPL approval to construct, own and operate up to 150 MW of solar generation at the Wever project in Lee County, Iowa and up to 50 MW of solar generation at the Creston project in Union County, Iowa.  These solar projects are included in the IUB’s October 2023 order approving advance rate-making principles for up to 400 MW of solar generation.  The IUB also issued GCU Certificates granting IPL approval to construct, own and operate up to 100 MW of battery storage (75 MW at the Wever project and 25 MW at the Creston project), which was not included in the IUB’s October 2023 order approving advance rate-making principles, and is subject to future regulatory approval. The 400 MW of new solar generation would help replace a portion of the energy and capacity eliminated with the May 2023 retirement of the coal-fired Lansing Generating Station (275 MW) and the reduction of energy and capacity resulting from the December 2021 fuel switch of the Burlington Generating Station (212 MW) from coal to natural gas.  In addition, IPL’s plans include additional renewables and distributed energy resources, including community solar and small-scale energy storage systems, and repowering existing wind farms, to add energy and capacity. WPL’s West Riverside Natural Gas-fired Generating Station - In 2020, WPL completed the construction of West Riverside, a 723 MW natural gas-fired combined-cycle EGU in Beloit, Wisconsin.  WPL entered into agreements with neighboring utilities and electric cooperatives that provide each of them options to purchase a partial ownership interest in West Riverside.  The purchase price for such options is based on the ownership interest acquired and the net book value of West Riverside on the date of the purchase.  The timing and ownership amount of the options are as follows: (a) Upon WEC’s exercise of its options, WPL may exercise reciprocal options, subject to approval by the PSCW, to purchase up to 200 MW of any natural-gas combined-cycle EGU that WEC places in service prior to May 2030. Plant Retirements and Fuel Switching - The current strategy includes the retirement, or fuel switch from coal to natural gas, of various EGUs in the next several years.  IPL retired the coal-fired Lansing Generating Station (275 MW) in May 2023, and currently expects to fuel switch or retire Prairie Creek Units 1 and 3 (65 MW in aggregate) by December 31, 2025.  WPL currently expects to retire the coal-fired Edgewater Generating Station (414 MW) by June 1, 2025, and Columbia Units 1 and 2 (595 MW in aggregate) by June 1, 2026.  Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL are working with MISO, state regulatory commissions and other regulatory agencies, as required, to determine the timing of these actions, which are subject to change depending on operational, regulatory, market and other factors.  Refer to for additional details on these EGUs. Environmental Stewardship - Alliant Energy’s environmental stewardship is focused on meeting its customers’ energy needs affordably, safely, reliably and sustainably.  Alliant Energy proactively considers future environmental compliance requirements and proposed regulations in its planning, decision-making, construction and ongoing operations activities.  Alliant Energy is focused on executing a long-term strategy to deliver reliable and affordable energy with lower emissions independent of changing policies and political landscape.  To achieve these long-term goals, Alliant Energy will transition away from coal-fired EGUs by incorporating renewable energy, distributed energy resources, energy efficiency, demand response, natural gas-fired EGUs and other technologies such as energy storage. Alliant Energy’s current voluntary environmental-related goals and achievements include the following: • Exceeded its 2020 targets by reducing air emissions for sulfur dioxide by over 90%, nitrogen oxides by over 80% and mercury by over 90% from 2005 levels. • By 2030, reduce GHG emissions from its utility operations by 50% from 2005 levels, reduce its electric utility water supply by 75% from 2005 levels and electrify 100% of its owned light-duty fleet vehicles. • By 2040, eliminate all coal-fired EGUs from its generating fleet and reduce GHG emissions from its utility operations by 80% from 2005 levels. • By 2050, aspire to achieve net-zero GHG emissions from its utility operations. Alliant Energy’s aspirational GHG goal includes EPA reportable emissions based on applicable regulatory compliance requirements for CO2, methane and nitrous oxide from its owned fossil-fueled EGUs and distribution of natural gas.  In addition, Alliant Energy’s environmental stewardship efforts include a goal to partner to plant more than 1 million trees by the end of 2030.  Future updates to sustainable energy plans and attaining these goals will depend on future economic developments, evolving energy technologies and emerging trends in Alliant Energy’s service territories. Other Customer-focused Investments Electric and Gas Distribution Systems - Customer-focused investments include replacing, modernizing and upgrading infrastructure in the electric and gas distribution systems.  Electric system investments will focus on areas such as improving reliability and resiliency with more underground electric distribution and enabling distributed energy solutions with higher capacity lines.  Gas system investments will focus on pipeline replacement to ensure safety and pipeline expansion to support reliability and economic development.  Estimated capital expenditures for expected and current electric and gas distribution infrastructure projects for 2024 through 2027 are included in the “Electric and gas distribution systems” lines in the construction and acquisition expenditures table in “ .” Fiber Optic Telecommunication Network - Alliant Energy is currently installing fiber optic routes between its facilities to enhance its communications network to improve resiliency and reliability of, and enable and strengthen, the integrated grid network focused on less densely populated rural areas. Gas Pipeline Expansion - IPL and WPL currently expect to make investments to extend various gas distribution systems to provide natural gas to unserved or underserved areas in their service territories. Gas Pipeline Safety - The Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration published various final rules from 2019 through 2022 that updated safety requirements for gas transmission pipelines, and updated procedures were implemented to address these rules.  Plans to address certain requirements for specific pipelines were developed and implemented, with identified remediation efforts to be completed by July 2035.  In anticipation of these rule changes, Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL have been proactively replacing certain of IPL’s transmission pipelines, making modifications to certain of WPL’s transmission pipelines, and updating practices for assessment and operation of these pipelines.  Alliant Energy, IPL, and WPL also continue to evaluate the impact of these final rules and resulting remediation plans on their financial condition and results of operations. Technology - Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL currently plan to make investments in technology to enhance productivity and efficiency through automation, customer self-service and telework.  Estimated capital expenditures for expected and current technology projects for 2024 through 2027 are included in the “Other” line in the construction and acquisition expenditures table in “ .” Non-utility business - Alliant Energy continues to explore growth of its Travero businesses and other limited scope opportunities outside of, but complementary to, Alliant Energy’s core utility business.  This non-utility strategy continues to evolve through exploration of modest strategic opportunities that are accretive to earnings and cash flows. RATE MATTERS Rate Reviews Retail Base Rate Filings - Base rate changes reflect both returns on additions to infrastructure and recovery of changes in costs incurred or expected to be incurred to provide electric and gas service to retail customers.  Given that a portion of the rate changes will offset changes in costs, revenues from rate changes should not be expected to result in an equal change in net income for either IPL or WPL. WPL’s Retail Electric and Gas Rate Reviews (2024/2025 Forward-looking Test Period) - In December 2023, the PSCW issued an order authorizing annual base rate increases of $49 million and $13 million for WPL’s retail electric and gas customers, respectively, effective January 1, 2024, for the 2024 forward-looking Test Period.  The PSCW’s order also authorized WPL to implement an additional $60 million increase in annual rates for its retail electric customers, effective January 1, 2025, for the 2025 forward-looking Test Period.  The key drivers for the annual base rate increases include revenue requirement impacts of increasing electric and gas rate base, including investments in solar generation and battery storage.  The order extends, with certain modifications, an earnings sharing mechanism through 2025.  Under the earnings sharing mechanism, WPL will defer a portion of its earnings if its annual regulatory return on common equity exceeds 9.95% during the 2024/2025 Test Period.  WPL must defer 50% of its excess earnings between 9.95% and 10.55%, and 100% of any excess earnings above 10.55%.  The PSCW also authorized WPL to defer the incremental under-/over-collection of solar and battery storage renewable tax credits that are outside of the approved amounts.  In addition, the PSCW authorized continued recovery of and a return on the remaining net book value of Edgewater Unit 5, which is currently expected to be retired by June 1, 2025.  Refer to for details of the PSCW’s February 2024 oral decision approving WPL’s deferral request to seek recovery of solar generation construction costs that exceed amounts previously approved by the PSCW in a future regulatory proceeding. IPL’s Retail Electric and Gas Rate Reviews (October 2024 Through September 2025 Forward-looking Test Period) - In October 2023, IPL filed a retail electric and gas rate review with the IUB for the October 2024 through September 2025 forward-looking Test Period.  The key drivers for the filing include revenue requirement impacts of increasing electric and gas rate base, including investments in solar generation and repowering of the existing Franklin County wind farm, as well as certain incremental costs and benefits incurred resulting from the 2020 derecho windstorm.  The filing requested approval for IPL to implement increases in annual rates for its retail electric and gas customers of $160 million and $14 million, respectively, with any granted rate changes expected to be effective on October 1, 2024.  IPL’s filing also requested approval to implement an additional $124 million increase in annual rates for its retail electric customers in 2025, with any granted rate changes expected to be effective on October 1, 2025.  IPL also requested a return on common equity of 10% and a 52% common equity component of its regulatory capital structure, as well as to receive continued recovery of and a return on the remaining net book value of the Lansing Generating Station through 2037, which was retired in May 2023.  A decision from the IUB is currently expected in the third quarter of 2024. WPL’s Retail Fuel-related Rate Filing (2022 Forward-looking Test Period) - In August 2023, the PSCW authorized WPL to collect $117 million in higher rates, plus interest, from its retail electric customers from October 2023 through December 2025 for fuel-related costs incurred by WPL in 2022 that were higher than fuel-related costs used to determine rates for such period. WPL’s Retail Fuel-related Rate Filing (2023 Forward-looking Test Period) - In December 2022, the PSCW authorized WPL to collect $47 million in higher rates in 2023 from its retail electric customers to reflect an increase in expected fuel-related costs for 2023 compared to WPL’s approved 2022 fuel-related costs. Rate Review Details - Details related to IPL’s and WPL’s key jurisdictions were as follows: (a) Authorized returns on common equity may not be indicative of actual returns earned or projections of future returns. (b) Average rate base amounts reflect IPL’s allocated retail share of rate base and do not include CWIP, and were calculated using a forecasted 13-month average for the test period. (c) Average rate base amounts recovered through IPL’s renewable energy rider mechanism include construction costs incurred to fund IPL’s 1,000 MW of wind generation facilities placed in service in 2019 and 2020 (11.00% return on common equity), production tax credit carryforwards for the 1,000 MW of wind generation facilities (5.00% return on common equity) and certain transmission facilities classified as intangible assets (9.50% return on common equity), and were calculated using a 13-month average. (d) Average rate base amounts reflect WPL’s allocated retail share of rate base and do not include CWIP or a cash working capital allowance, and were calculated using a forecasted 13-month average for the test period.  The PSCW provides a return on selected CWIP and a cash working capital allowance by adjusting the percentage return on rate base. LEGISLATIVE MATTERS In August 2022, the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 was enacted.  The most significant provisions of the new legislation for Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL relate to a 10-year extension of tax credits for clean energy projects, a new production tax credit for eligible solar projects, a new stand-alone investment tax credit for battery storage projects and the right to transfer renewable tax credits generated after 2022 to other corporate taxpayers.  The new legislation also includes a requirement for corporations with income over $1 billion to pay a 15% minimum tax; however, Alliant Energy is currently below this income level.  Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL are utilizing various provisions of the new legislation to enhance the tax benefits expected from their announced solar and battery storage projects, including transferring the future tax credits from such projects to other corporate taxpayers, as well as the repowering of existing wind farms.  The impact of these changes is expected to result in more cost benefits for IPL’s and WPL’s customers, higher rate base amounts, additional financing needs expected to be satisfied with additional long-term debt and common stock issuances, and improvements in long-term cash flows over the life of the solar, battery storage and wind repowering projects.  Refer to for discussion of the transfer of renewable tax credits to other corporate taxpayers in 2023. Refer to for discussion of Iowa tax reform enacted in March 2022. In November 2021, the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (IIJA Act) was enacted.  The most significant provisions of the IIJA Act for Alliant Energy relate to a variety of infrastructure-related priorities, including transportation, environmental, energy and broadband infrastructure.  In addition, the IIJA Act is intended to accelerate research, development, demonstration and deployment of carbon-free technologies, including hydrogen and carbon capture and storage. In March 2021, the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 (Act) was enacted.  The most significant provision of the Act for Alliant Energy is reduced minimum pension plan funding requirements, which Alliant Energy adopted in August 2021.  The Act also provides additional funding to the Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program, which assists certain of Alliant Energy’s customers with managing their energy costs, as well as provides financial support for certain of Alliant Energy’s residential, small business and non-profit customers. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Overview - Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL expect to maintain adequate liquidity to operate their businesses and implement their strategy as a result of operating cash flows generated by their utility business, and available capacity under a single revolving credit facility and IPL’s sales of accounts receivable program, supplemented by periodic issuances of long-term debt and Alliant Energy equity securities.  As summarized below, Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL believe they have the ability to generate and obtain adequate amounts of cash to meet their requirements and plans for cash in the next 12 months and beyond. Liquidity Position - At December 31, 2023, Alliant Energy had $62 million of cash and cash equivalents, $525 million ($293 million at the parent company, $150 million at IPL and $82 million at WPL) of available capacity under the single revolving credit facility and $4 million of available capacity at IPL under its sales of accounts receivable program. Capital Structure - Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL plan to maintain debt-to-total capitalization ratios that are consistent with investment-grade credit ratings.  IPL and WPL expect to maintain capital structures consistent with the authorized levels approved by regulators.  Financial capital structures as of December 31, 2023 were as follows (Common Equity (CE); Long-term Debt (including current maturities) (LD); Short-term Debt (SD)): Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL intend to manage their capital structures and liquidity positions in such a way that facilitates their ability to raise funds reliably and on reasonable terms and conditions, while maintaining capital structures consistent with those approved by regulators.  In addition to capital structures, other important factors used to determine the characteristics of future financings include financial coverage ratios, capital spending plans, regulatory orders and rate-making considerations, levels of debt imputed by rating agencies, market conditions, the impact of tax initiatives and legislation, and any potential proceeds from asset sales.  The PSCW factors certain imputed debt adjustments, including certain lease obligations, in establishing a regulatory capital structure as part of WPL’s retail rate reviews.  The IUB does not make any explicit adjustments for imputed debt in establishing capital ratios used in determining customer rates, although such adjustments are considered by IPL in recommending an appropriate capital structure.  Debt imputations by rating agencies include, among others, pension and OPEB obligations, the sales of accounts receivable program and certain lease obligations. Credit and Capital Markets - Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL maintain a single revolving credit facility to provide backstop liquidity to their commercial paper programs, and ensure a committed source of liquidity in the event the commercial paper market becomes disrupted.  In addition, IPL maintains a sales of accounts receivable program as an alternative financing source; however, if customer arrears were to exceed certain levels, IPL’s access to the program may be restricted. Primary Sources and Uses of Cash - Alliant Energy’s most significant source of cash is from electric and gas sales to IPL’s and WPL’s customers.  Cash from these sales reimburses IPL and WPL for prudently-incurred expenses to provide service to their utility customers and generally provides IPL and WPL a return of and a return on the assets used to provide such services.  Capital needed to retire debt and fund capital expenditures related to large strategic projects is expected to be met primarily through external financings. Cash Flows - Selected information from the cash flows statements was as follows (in millions): Operating Activities - The following items contributed to increased (decreased) operating activity cash flows for 2023 compared to 2022 (in millions): Income Tax Payments and Refunds - Income tax (payments) refunds were as follows (in millions): Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL currently do not expect to make any significant federal income tax payments over the next few years based on their current credit carryforward positions; however, some tax payments and refunds may occur for state taxes and between consolidated group members (including IPL and WPL) under the tax sharing agreement between Alliant Energy and its subsidiaries.  Refer to for discussion of the carryforward positions. As discussed in “ ,” the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 provides the right to transfer renewable tax credits to other corporate taxpayers.  Refer to the cash flows statements and for details of renewable tax credits transferred to other corporate taxpayers in 2023.  Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL currently intend to transfer all eligible renewable tax credits in the future, and as a result, expect an increase in future cash flows from operating activities. Higher Earnings on Increasing Rate Base - Refer to “ ” for discussion of expected increases in future cash flows from operating activities resulting from higher earnings on increasing rate base at WPL. Pension Plan Contributions - Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL currently expect to make $12 million, $— and $10 million of pension plan contributions in 2024, respectively, based on the funded status and assumed return on assets for each plan as of the December 31, 2023 measurement date.  Refer to for discussion of pension plan contributions in 2023 and the current funded levels of pension plans. Investing Activities - The following items contributed to increased (decreased) investing activity cash flows for 2023 compared to 2022 (in millions): (a) Largely due to higher expenditures for IPL’s solar generation. (b) Largely due to higher cash payments related to cost of removal obligations at IPL and WPL. Construction and Acquisition Expenditures - Construction and acquisition expenditures and financing plans are reviewed, approved and updated as part of the strategic planning process.  Changes may result from a number of reasons, including regulatory requirements, changing legislation, not obtaining favorable and acceptable regulatory approval on certain projects, changing costs of projects due to market conditions, improvements in technology, and improvements to ensure resiliency and reliability of the electric and gas distribution systems.  Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL have not yet entered into contractual commitments relating to the majority of their anticipated future construction and acquisition expenditures.  As a result, they have some discretion with regard to the level and timing of these expenditures.  The table below summarizes anticipated construction and acquisition expenditures (in millions), which are focused on the transition to cleaner energy and strengthening the resiliency and reliability of IPL’s and WPL’s electric grid, and include renewables and battery storage projects, dispatchable gas generation projects and wind repowering projects.  Cost estimates represent Alliant Energy’s, IPL’s and WPL’s portion of construction expenditures and exclude AFUDC and capitalized interest, if applicable.  Refer to “ ” for further discussion of certain key projects impacting construction and acquisition plans related to the utility business. Renewables and Battery Storage - Refer to “ ” for further discussion of regulatory filings with the IUB and PSCW related to future renewable and battery storage projects. West Riverside Options - WPL entered into agreements with neighboring utilities that provide them options to purchase a partial ownership interest in West Riverside.  Upon exercise of such options and the resulting sales, WPL receives proceeds from the sales.  Refer to “ ” for additional information, including partial sales in 2023 and potential additional partial sales in the future. Financing Activities - The following items contributed to increased (decreased) financing activity cash flows for 2023 compared to 2022 (in millions): FERC and Public Utility Holding Company Act Financing Authorizations - Under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005, FERC has authority over the issuance of utility securities, except to the extent that a public utility’s primary state regulatory commission has retained jurisdiction over such matters.  FERC currently has authority over the issuance of securities by IPL.  FERC does not have authority over the issuance of securities by Alliant Energy, WPL, AEF or Corporate Services.  In 2023, IPL received authorization from FERC to issue securities in 2024 and 2025 as follows (in millions): State Regulatory Financing Authorizations - In March 2023, WPL received authorization from the PSCW to have up to $500 million of short-term borrowings and/or letters of credit outstanding at any time through the expiration date of WPL’s credit facility agreement.  As of December 31, 2023, WPL also had authority to issue up to $900 million of long-term debt securities in aggregate through December 2025 pursuant to a February 2023 PSCW order. Shelf Registrations - Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL have current shelf registration statements on file with the SEC for availability to issue unspecified amounts of securities through December 2026.  Alliant Energy’s shelf registration statement may be used to issue common stock, debt and other securities.  IPL’s and WPL’s shelf registration statements may be used to issue preferred stock and debt securities. Common Stock Dividends - Payment of common stock dividends is subject to dividend declaration by Alliant Energy’s Board of Directors and is dependent upon, among other factors, regulatory limitations, earnings, cash flows, capital requirements and general financial condition of subsidiaries.  Alliant Energy’s general long-term goal is to maintain a dividend payout ratio that is competitive with the industry average.  Based on that, Alliant Energy’s goal is to maintain a dividend payout ratio of approximately 60% to 70% of consolidated earnings from continuing operations.  Refer to “ ” for discussion of expected common stock dividends in 2024. Common Stock Issuances - Refer to for discussion of common stock issuances by Alliant Energy in 2022 and 2023, and “ ” for discussion of expected issuances of common stock in 2024. Short-term Debt - In January 2024, Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL extended their single revolving credit facility agreement, which expires in December 2028 and is discussed in .  There are currently 13 lenders that participate in the credit facility, with respective commitments ranging from $20 million to $130 million.  Subject to certain conditions, Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL may exercise one extension option, which would extend the maturity date by one year.  The credit facility has a provision to expand the facility size up to an additional $300 million, for a potential total commitment of $1.3 billion, subject to lender approval for Alliant Energy and subject to lender and regulatory approvals for IPL and WPL. The credit agreement contains customary events of default, including a cross-default provision that would be triggered if Alliant Energy or certain of its significant subsidiaries (including IPL and WPL) defaults on debt (other than non-recourse debt) totaling $100 million or more.  IPL and WPL are subject to a similar cross-default provision with respect to their own respective consolidated debt.  A default by Alliant Energy or its non-utility subsidiaries would not trigger a cross-default at IPL or WPL, nor would a default by either of IPL or WPL constitute a cross-default event for the other.  If an event of default under the credit agreement occurs and is continuing, then the lenders may declare any outstanding obligations of the defaulting borrower under the credit agreement immediately due and payable. The single credit facility agreement contains a financial covenant, which requires Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL to maintain certain debt-to-capital ratios in order to borrow under the credit facility.  AEF’s term loan credit agreement contains a financial covenant, which requires Alliant Energy to maintain a certain debt-to-capital ratio in order to borrow under the term loan credit agreement.  The required debt-to-capital ratios compared to the actual debt-to-capital ratios at December 31, 2023 were as follows: The debt component of the capital ratios includes, when applicable, long- and short-term debt (excluding non-recourse debt and hybrid securities to the extent the total carrying value of such hybrid securities does not exceed 15% of consolidated capital of the applicable borrower), finance lease obligations, certain letters of credit, guarantees of the foregoing and new synthetic leases.  Unfunded vested benefits under qualified pension plans and sales of accounts receivable are not included in the debt-to-capital ratios.  The equity component of the capital ratios excludes accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Long-term Debt - Refer to for discussion of issuances and retirements of long-term debt in 2023, and “ ” for discussion of expected issuances and retirements of long-term debt in 2024.  In 2022, WPL issued $600 million of 3.95% green bond debentures due 2032, and an amount in excess of the net proceeds was disbursed for the development and acquisition of WPL’s solar EGUs.  In 2022, AEF entered into a $300 million variable rate term loan credit agreement and used the borrowings under this agreement to retire its $300 million variable rate term loan credit agreement that expired in 2022.  In 2022, AEF increased the amount outstanding under the new term loan credit agreement by $100 million and used the additional borrowings to reduce Alliant Energy’s outstanding commercial paper and for general corporate purposes.  In 2022, AEF issued $350 million of 3.6% senior notes due 2032 and used the net proceeds to reduce Alliant Energy’s outstanding commercial paper and for general corporate purposes. Impact of Credit Ratings on Liquidity and Collateral Obligations - Ratings Triggers - The long-term debt of Alliant Energy and its subsidiaries is not subject to any repayment requirements as a result of explicit credit rating downgrades or so-called “ratings triggers.”  However, Alliant Energy and its subsidiaries are parties to various agreements that contain provisions dependent on credit ratings.  In the event of a significant downgrade, Alliant Energy or its subsidiaries may need to provide credit support, such as letters of credit or cash collateral equal to the amount of any exposure, or may need to unwind contracts or pay underlying obligations.  In the event of a significant downgrade, management believes Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL have sufficient liquidity to cover counterparty credit support or collateral requirements under these various agreements.  In addition, a downgrade in the credit ratings of Alliant Energy, IPL or WPL could also result in them paying higher interest rates in future financings, reduce flexibility with future financing plans, reduce their pool of potential lenders, increase their borrowing costs under existing credit facilities or limit their access to the commercial paper market.  Credit ratings and outlooks as of the date of this report are as follows: Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services and Moody’s Investors Service issued credit ratings of BBB+ and Baa2, respectively, for the senior notes issued by AEF in 2018, 2020, 2022 and 2023 (with Alliant Energy as guarantor).  Credit ratings are not recommendations to buy or sell securities and are subject to change, and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating.  Each of Alliant Energy, IPL or WPL assumes no obligation to update their respective credit ratings.  Refer to for additional information on ratings triggers for commodity contracts accounted for as derivatives. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements - Special Purpose Entities - IPL maintains a Receivables Agreement whereby it may sell its customer accounts receivables, unbilled revenues and certain other accounts receivables to a third party through wholly-owned and consolidated special purpose entities.  The purchase commitment from the third party to which IPL sells its receivables expires in March 2024.  IPL currently expects to amend and extend the purchase commitment.  In 2023 and 2022, IPL evaluated the third party that purchases IPL’s receivable assets under the Receivables Agreement and believes that the third party is a VIE; however, IPL concluded consolidation of the third party was not required. In addition, IPL’s sales of accounts receivable program agreement contains a cross-default provision that is triggered if IPL or Alliant Energy incurs an event of default on debt totaling $100 million or more.  If an event of default under IPL’s sales of accounts receivable program agreement occurs, then the counterparty could terminate such agreement.  Refer to for additional information regarding IPL’s sales of accounts receivable program. Guarantees and Indemnifications - At December 31, 2023, various guarantees and indemnifications are outstanding related to Alliant Energy’s cash equity ownership interest in a non-utility wind farm, prior divestiture activities and transfers of renewable tax credits to other corporate taxpayers.  Refer to for additional information. Certain Financial Commitments - Contractual Obligations - Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL have various long-term contractual obligations as of December 31, 2023, which include long-term debt maturities in , operating and finance leases in , capital purchase obligations in , and other purchase obligations in .  At December 31, 2023, Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL had no uncertain tax positions recorded as liabilities.  Refer to for anticipated pension and OPEB funding amounts.  Refer to “ ” above for additional information on construction and acquisition programs.  In addition, at December 31, 2023, there were various other liabilities included on the balance sheets that, due to the nature of the liabilities, the timing of payments cannot be estimated. OTHER MATTERS Market Risk Sensitive Instruments and Positions - Primary market risk exposures are associated with commodity prices, counterparty credit risk, investment prices and interest rates.  Risk management policies are used to monitor and assist in mitigating these market risks and derivative instruments are used to manage some of the exposures related to commodity prices and interest rates.  Refer to Notes and for further discussion of derivative instruments, and for details of utility cost recovery mechanisms that significantly reduce commodity risk. Commodity Price - Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL are exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in the price and transportation costs of commodities they procure and market.  Established policies and procedures mitigate risks associated with these market fluctuations, including the use of various commodity derivatives and contracts of various durations for the forward sale and purchase of these commodities.  Exposure to commodity price risks in the utility businesses is also significantly mitigated by current rate-making structures in place for recovery of fuel-related costs as well as the cost of natural gas purchased for resale.  IPL’s electric and gas tariffs and WPL’s wholesale electric and gas tariffs provide for subsequent monthly adjustments to their tariff rates for material changes in prudently incurred commodity costs.  IPL’s and WPL’s rate mechanisms, combined with commodity derivatives, significantly reduce commodity risk associated with their electric and gas service.  WPL’s retail electric service is exposed to the impact of changes in commodity prices due largely to the current retail recovery mechanism in place in Wisconsin for fuel-related costs. Counterparty Credit Risk - Alliant Energy, IPL, and WPL are exposed to credit risk related to losses resulting from counterparties’ nonperformance of their contractual obligations.  Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL maintain credit policies intended to minimize overall credit risk and actively monitor these policies to reflect changes and scope of operations.  Alliant Energy, IPL, and WPL conduct credit reviews for certain counterparties, and employ credit risk controls such as letters of credit, parental guarantees, master netting agreements and termination provisions.  Credit exposure is monitored, and when necessary, activity with a specific counterparty is limited until credit enhancement is provided.  Distress in the financial markets could increase Alliant Energy’s, IPL’s and WPL’s credit risk. Investment Price - Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL are exposed to investment price risk as a result of their investments in securities, largely related to securities held by their pension and OPEB plans, as well as unconsolidated investments accounted for under the equity method of accounting.  Refer to for details of the securities held by their pension and OPEB plans, and for details of equity investments.  Refer to “ ” for the impact on retirement plan costs of changes in the rate of returns earned by plan assets. Interest Rate - Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL are exposed to risk resulting from changes in interest rates associated with variable-rate borrowings.  In addition, Alliant Energy and IPL are exposed to risk resulting from changes in interest rates on cash amounts outstanding under IPL’s sales of accounts receivable program.  Assuming the impact of a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in interest rates on variable-rate borrowings and cash amounts outstanding under IPL’s sales of accounts receivable program at December 31, 2023, Alliant Energy’s, IPL’s and WPL’s annual pre-tax expense would increase by approximately $5 million, $0 and $3 million, respectively.  Refer to Notes and for additional information on cash amounts outstanding under IPL’s sales of accounts receivable program, and short- and long-term variable-rate borrowings, respectively.  Refer to “ ” for the impacts of changes in discount rates on retirement plan obligations and costs. Critical Accounting Estimates - Alliant Energy’s, IPL’s and WPL’s financial statements are prepared in conformity with GAAP, which requires management to apply accounting policies, judgments and assumptions, and make estimates that affect results of operations and the amounts of assets and liabilities reported in the financial statements.  The following accounting estimates are critical to the business and the understanding of financial results as they require critical assumptions and judgments by management.  The results of these assumptions and judgments form the basis for making estimates regarding the results of operations and the amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources.  Actual financial results may differ materially from estimates.  Management has discussed these critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.  Refer to for additional discussion of accounting estimates used in the preparation of the financial statements. Regulatory Assets and Regulatory Liabilities - IPL and WPL are regulated by various federal and state regulatory agencies.  As a result, they are subject to GAAP for regulated operations, which recognizes that the actions of a regulator can provide reasonable assurance of the existence of an asset or liability.  Regulatory assets or regulatory liabilities arise as a result of a difference between GAAP and actions imposed by the regulatory agencies in the rate-making process.  Regulatory assets generally represent incurred costs that have been deferred as such costs are probable of recovery in future customer rates.  Regulatory liabilities generally represent obligations to make refunds to customers or amounts collected in rates for which the related costs have not yet been incurred.  Regulatory assets and regulatory liabilities are recognized in accordance with the rulings of applicable federal and state regulators, and future regulatory rulings may impact the carrying value and accounting treatment of regulatory assets and regulatory liabilities. provides details of the nature and amounts of regulatory assets and regulatory liabilities assessed at December 31, 2023. Assumptions and judgments are made each reporting period regarding whether regulatory assets are probable of future recovery and regulatory liabilities are probable future obligations by considering factors such as regulatory environment changes, rate orders issued by the applicable regulatory agencies, historical decisions by such regulatory agencies regarding similar regulatory assets and regulatory liabilities, and subsequent events of such regulatory agencies.  The decisions made by regulatory authorities have an impact on the recovery of costs, the rate of return on invested capital and the timing and amount of assets to be recovered by rates.  A change in these decisions may result in a material impact on results of operations and the amount of assets and liabilities in the financial statements. In May 2023, IPL retired the Lansing Generating Station.  IPL is currently allowed a full recovery of and a full return on this EGU from both its retail and wholesale customers, and IPL’s retail electric rate review for the October 2024 through September 2025 forward-looking Test Period includes a request for continued recovery of and a return on the remaining net book value of Lansing through 2037.  As a result, Alliant Energy and IPL concluded that no impairment was required as of December 31, 2023. Income Taxes - Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL are subject to income taxes in various jurisdictions.  Assumptions and judgments are made each reporting period to estimate income tax assets, liabilities, benefits and expenses.  Judgments and assumptions are supported by historical data and reasonable projections.  Significant changes in these judgments and assumptions could have a material impact on financial condition and results of operations.  Alliant Energy’s and IPL’s critical assumptions and judgments for 2023 included estimates of qualifying deductions for repairs expenditures and allocation of mixed service costs due to the impact of Iowa rate-making principles on such property-related differences.  Critical assumptions and judgments also include projections of future taxable income used to determine the ability to utilize federal credit carryforwards prior to their expiration.  Refer to for further discussion of tax matters. Effect of Rate-making on Property-related Differences - Alliant Energy’s and IPL’s effective income tax rates are normally impacted by certain property-related differences at IPL for which deferred tax is not recorded in the income statement pursuant to Iowa rate-making principles.  Changes in methods or assumptions regarding the amount of IPL’s qualifying repairs expenditures, allocation of mixed service costs, and costs related to retirement or removal of depreciable property could result in a material impact on Alliant Energy’s and IPL’s financial condition and results of operations. Carryforward Utilization - Significant federal tax credit carryforwards exist for Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL as of December 31, 2023.  Based on projections of current and future taxable income, Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL plan to utilize all of these carryforwards more than five years before expiration.  Changes in tax regulations or assumptions regarding current and future taxable income could require valuation allowances in the future resulting in a material impact on financial condition and results of operations. Long-Lived Assets - Periodic assessments regarding the recoverability of certain long-lived assets are completed when factors indicate the carrying value of such assets may not be recoverable or such assets are planned to be sold.  These assessments require significant assumptions and judgments by management.  The long-lived assets assessed for impairment generally include certain assets within regulated operations that may not be fully recovered from IPL’s and WPL’s customers as a result of regulatory decisions in the future, and assets within non-utility operations that are proposed to be sold or are currently generating operating losses. Regulated Operations - Alliant Energy’s, IPL’s and WPL’s long-lived assets within their regulated operations that were assessed for impairment and/or plant abandonment in 2023 included WPL’s generating units subject to early retirement, and IPL’s and WPL’s solar generation projects recently completed or under construction. Generating Units Subject to Early Retirement - Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL evaluate future plans for their electric generation fleet and have announced the early retirement of certain EGUs.  When it becomes probable that an EGU will be retired before the end of its useful life, Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL must assess whether the EGU meets the criteria to be considered probable of abandonment.  EGUs that are considered probable of abandonment generally have material remaining net book values and are expected to cease operations in the near term significantly before the end of their original estimated useful lives.  If an EGU meets such criteria to be considered probable of abandonment, Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL must assess the probability of full recovery of the remaining carrying value of such EGU.  If it is probable that regulators will not allow full recovery of and a full return on the remaining net book value of the abandoned EGU, an impairment charge is recognized equal to the difference between the remaining carrying value and the present value of the future revenues expected from the abandoned EGU. Alliant Energy and WPL concluded that Edgewater Unit 5 (expected to be retired by June 1, 2025) and Columbia Units 1 and 2 (expected to be retired by June 1, 2026), met the criteria to be considered probable of abandonment as of December 31, 2023.  WPL is currently allowed a full recovery of and a full return on these EGUs from both its retail and wholesale customers, and as a result, Alliant Energy and WPL concluded that no impairment was required as of December 31, 2023.  Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL evaluated their other EGUs that are subject to early retirement and determined that no other EGUs met the criteria to be considered probable of abandonment as of December 31, 2023. provides additional details on these EGUs. Solar Generation Projects Recently Completed or Under Construction - Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL review property, plant and equipment for possible impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate all or a portion of the carrying value of the assets may be disallowed for rate-making purposes.  If IPL or WPL is disallowed recovery of any portion of, or is only allowed a partial return on, the carrying value of the solar generation projects recently completed or under construction, then an impairment charge is recognized.  “ ” provides details of IPL’s and WPL’s solar generation projects recently completed or under construction. IPL accepted the IUB’s advance rate-making principles approved in October 2023 for 400 MW of solar generation.  IPL currently expects estimated construction costs associated with the 400 MW of new solar generation will exceed the cost target of $1,650/kilowatt, including AFUDC and transmission upgrade costs among other costs, approved by the IUB by approximately 10%.  Alliant Energy and IPL concluded that there was not a probable disallowance of anticipated higher rate base amounts as of December 31, 2023 given construction costs were reasonably and prudently incurred. WPL previously received authorization from the PSCW to acquire, construct, own and/or operate approximately 1,100 MW of new solar generation.  Alliant Energy and WPL currently expect estimated construction costs associated with this solar generation will exceed amounts previously approved by the PSCW by approximately $180 million.  In December 2023, the PSCW issued an order authorizing annual base rate increases for WPL’s retail electric customers for the 2024/2025 forward-looking Test Period, which did not include revenue requirement for the estimated construction costs that exceed amounts previously approved by the PSCW.  In February 2024, the PSCW issued an oral decision approving WPL’s deferral request to seek recovery of these costs in a future regulatory proceeding.  Alliant Energy and WPL concluded that there was not a probable disallowance of anticipated higher rate base amounts as of December 31, 2023 given construction costs were reasonably and prudently incurred. Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits - Alliant Energy, IPL and WPL sponsor various defined benefit pension and OPEB plans that provide benefits to a significant portion of their employees and retirees.  Assumptions and judgments are made periodically to estimate the obligations and costs related to their retirement plans.  There are many judgments and assumptions involved in determining an entity’s pension and other postretirement liabilities and costs each period including employee demographics (including life expectancies and compensation levels), discount rates, assumed rates of return and funding.  Changes made to plan provisions may also impact current and future benefits costs.  Judgments and assumptions are supported by historical data and reasonable projections and are reviewed at least annually.  The following table shows the impacts of changing certain key actuarial assumptions discussed above (in millions): Contingencies - Assumptions and judgments are made each reporting period regarding the future outcome of contingent events.  Loss contingency amounts are recorded for any contingent events for which the likelihood of loss is probable and able to be reasonably estimated based upon current available information.  The amounts recorded may differ from actuals when the uncertainty is resolved.  The estimates made in accounting for contingencies, and the gains and losses that are recorded upon the ultimate resolution of these uncertainties, could have a significant effect on results of operations and the amount of assets and liabilities in the financial statements. Certain contingencies, such as Alliant Energy Resources, LLC’s guarantees of the partnership obligations of an affiliate of Whiting Petroleum, require estimation each reporting period of the expected credit losses on those contingencies, which requires significant judgment and may result in the recognition of a credit loss liability.  With respect to Alliant Energy’s guarantees of the partnership obligations of an affiliate of Whiting Petroleum, the most significant judgments in determining the credit loss liability were the estimate of the exposure under the guarantees and the methodology used for calculating the credit loss liability.  As of December 31, 2023, Alliant Energy currently estimates the exposure to be a portion of the known partnership abandonment obligations.  The methodology used to determine the credit loss liability considers both quantitative and qualitative information, which utilizes potential outcomes in a range of possible estimated amounts.  Factors considered include market and external data points, the creditworthiness of the other partners, Whiting Petroleum’s emergence from bankruptcy in 2020 as well as subsequent bankruptcy developments, payments by Whiting Petroleum related to abandonment obligations, forecasted cash flow expenditures associated with the abandonment obligations based on information made available to Alliant Energy, and Whiting Petroleum’s business combination with Oasis Petroleum Inc. in 2022. provides further discussion of contingencies assessed at December 31, 2023 that may have a material impact on financial condition and results of operations, including various pending legal proceedings, guarantees and indemnifications.